 The Hon. Cropley Ashley  rose and spoke as follows. Sir; after having heard the sentiments expressed, and the statements contained in the Speech which has just now been read, it cannot appear out of season for me to congratulate the House on the state of the country as described in that Speech. The spirit, zeal, and unanimity of all classes, and the voluntary exertions of every branch of the community, are unexampled in the annals of any country, and have so effectually provided for the defence and security of the kingdom, as to set all attempts of the enemy to make any impression on our coasts at defiance. I congratulate this House and the nation in general, that the prosperous state of our manufactures, and the great improvement of the public revenue, will enable the government to adhere to that excellent system of carrying on the war without any material addition to (he permanent debt of the nation; a system which, if closely pursued, will infallibly disappoint the hopes of our foe, and render abortive every attempt of the enemy to destroy this country by delay, and to keep it in a constant state of alarm.—From the exertions that every where appear around us, I think the country in a situation of the greatest security; and it is with conscious pride I have observed, that, notwithstanding the extensive and vigorous stem of internal defence that has been adopted, our arms have been carried abroad against the foreign possessions of the enamy. The valuable islands of St. Lucia, Tobago, St. Pierre, and Miquelon, and the settlements of Demarara and Essequibo, have been added to the British empire. The vigilance and wisdom of the administration which planned the expeditions against them, and the zeal, bravery, the forces, by which such va-
 14 15 16 17
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —I rise, Sir, for the purpose of replying to the observations which have been made by the hon. member, on the speech with which his Majesty has been pleased to address his Parliament this day. Although the hon. member is not inclined to oppose the address, and is disposed to entertain a favourable opinion of the sentiments which generally pervade it, yet it would, he declares, have afforded him more unqualified satisfaction, if the mediation of the court, of Russia, whether successful or not, had been explicitly mentioned in the speech from the Throne; and that the allusion to the insurrection in that part of the united kingdom called Ireland, had been couched in other or more guarded expressions.—Sir, the hon. gentleman has stated, with accuracy, the general import of that pledge, which, during the last session of Parliament, was made by my noble friend, the Secretary of State, whom it has pleased his Majesty to promote to a seat in another assembly. My noble friend did certainly declare, as the hon. gentleman has fairly stated, that his Majesty's ministers were ready to accept, not only now, but at any future time, the mediation of the Emperor Alexander, towards terminating the unhappy and unprovoked hostility in which the British empire was involved; and that for the purpose of convincing all Europe, of the equity of their cause, and the pacific nature of their intentions, they would not only accept it if offered, but that they would even condescend to solicit it. Sir, for the information of the hon. gentleman, I will communicate to him and to this house, that that mediation was offered by the court of Russia, and accepted with readiness and gratitude, on the part of his Majesty's servants; and although discussions of the greatest moment were consequently commenced, yet I am sorry to say, that in their progress they did not assume such a shape as to lead to any probability of an amicable arrangement with France. No man can be more concerned than I am, that the interference of that court has not been attended with that success which the hon. gentleman, on a former occasion, seemed so zealous in his expectation of. I am not, however, at all astonished to find, that the hon. gentleman expresses surprise at not receiving more information relative to this subject, nor do I think the regret he has shewn at finding any account of the issue of the negotiation omitted in his Majesty's speech at all un-
 25 26 hope wish wish, hope 27
 The Speaker  acquainted the House that the House h3d, in obedience to his Majesty's command, attended in the House of Peers, to hear his Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne; of which, to prevent mistakes, he had himself obtained a copy. Ho then proceeded to read the Speech from the chair, for which we refer to our account of the proceedings of the Lords. (See p. I.) After the Speaker had finished reading the Speech,
 Mr. Fox. —Sir, I do not rise with the intention of objecting particularly to the proposed address in consequence of the speech which his Majesty has been most graciously pleased to make to both Houses of Parliament; nor am I disposed to dispute the soundness of the arguments employed by the honourable mover, and seconder of the address. I rise merely to advert to two points; one of which is omitted in the speech, and the other particularly alluded to. The point omitted in the speech is the mediation of Russia: a. subject on which I cannot help thinking, the house had a fair right to expect some communication. Lithe course of the last session of Parliament, when I called the attention of the house to the mediation of (he court of St. Petersbourg, a noble Secretary of State (Lord Hawkesbury), not now in tins house, did, as strongly as language can express, pledge ministers as not only ready to accept of the mediation of Russia, if offered, but, if not offered, directly to solicit it. The noble Lord distinctly pledged himself, that Ministers were not only willing to hear the ideas of the court of Russia, as to the best mode of bringing about an accommodation of the differences betwixt this country and France; but ready to state what their own ideas were of the most practicable means of restoring a good understanding betwixt the two countries. *
 Mr. Burland. —Sir, In rising to second the motion of my honourable friend, I find a considerable degree of embarrassment; not proceeding so much from the apprehension of addressing this House, whose indulgence I have before experienced, hut from the momentous crisis in which I am permitted to address you. A crisis, Sir, which whether we consider the general situation of the continent of Europe, sunk and depressed as it is by the predominant influence of one power to the rank and level of a petty German State, or whether we consider the particular situation of this kingdom rearing its head above those clouds of anarchy and despotism which have in succession shed their noxious influence on the globe: in whatever light we view, it, I believe it is a crisis unparalleled in the history of antient, and I am confident unequalled in that of modem times.—At a period like the present. Sir, when preparations are making, the avowed object of which we know to be the destruction of this country, when even at the moment in which I am now speaking, the mediated attack may possibly have commenced on our coasts, I am sure I need not call upon the members of this House for that unanimity on which our salvation depends. Small indeed, I am well aware, is the influence which any argument of mine would produce, but I rely with confidence on the unanimous vote of the House in support of the motion of my honourable friend, because the experience of the last session of Parliament has taught me, that whatever shades of difference there might be in political opinions on speculative or theoretical points, however gentlemen might disagree in their sentiments of past measures, or of proposed plans of defence, yet, whenever the welfare of the King, the country, or the constitution, was at stake, this House possessed but one opinion and one voice.—Let us, then, at the commencement of a session, during which it is probable the fate of this country will be decided, set an exam-
 18 19 On all sides, from innumerable tongues, A dismal, universal hiss—the sound Of public scorn. 20 21
 Sir Francis Burdett. —I do not rise, Sir, for the purpose of disturbing the unanimity of the House upon the present occasion. I shall vote for the Address. But there is a matter of the greatest importance, connected with that volunteer system which
 28
 Mr. Dundas  reported at the bar, from the committee of the Waterford election, that two of the members of that committee, Mr. Ward and Mr. F. W. Grant were absent, and that the other members, after waiting one hoar, ajourned.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then rose to suggest the propriety of deferring the considerations of these petitions till after the Christmas recess. Should it be the pleasure of the house to adopt that suggestion, it should be his wish to pursue the same plan as that adopted last year, viz. that an order should be made for a call of the house, and that two petitions should be ballotted for on two days of each week. The house must be sensible how inconvenient it might be to enforce a call of the house at the present moment, and under the present circumstances of the country. Under that impression he had no doubt but that they would see the propriety of postponing the consideration of those petitions till the 2d of February, after the usual recess. The business which was likely to call together a full attendance would most probably be brought forward at that period; neither would the arrangement he was anxious for, interfere in the least with the
 34
 The Hon. Cropley Asbley  brought up the report of the address proposed to be carried by the house to the foot of the throne, in return for His Majesty's most gracious speech delivered yesterday to both houses of parliament. The address was read a first time, and on the motion that this address be now read a second time,
 The Speaker  informed the house, that since the nomination of the committee Mr. Ward had ceased to be a member of that house, and therefore there could be no further proceeding by the house with respect to him. With respect to Mr. Grant, there was a provision in an act of Parliament for ordering his attendance in the house, to offer his excuse for his absence, or to undergo the censure of the house: a motion might therefore be made for his attendance in the house on a given day, which, of course would not be a distant one—Mr. Dundas therefore moved, "that Francis William Grant, Esq. do attend in his place on Friday next."—After a few observations from the chair, upon the regularity of the motion, and the usual practice of the house on similar occasious, the motion was put and carried.
 The Speaker  entered into a foil explanation of the case. He reminded the house of the jealousy with which they were always actuated in matters of this nature. Yet he was well aware that laudable as that jealousy was, it would never stand in the way of justice and equity when they could be fairly attended without prejudice to either party. It was determined, by an order of the house, that when the qualification of candidates was called in question, the particulars of that qualification should be produced by him within fifteen days after the complaint of his wanting it, was made against him. The usual notice, it appears, had been sent to Mr. Fydell, in the present case, but not complied with; and the reason adduced for his non-compliance was his indispensible absence beyond sea. A precedent, similar to the present case, occured in the year 1744. It respected also a naval officer who was necessarily absent on the service of his country; and the house then judged it fit to extend the time. Should the house be now inclined to grant the same indulgence, they would agree to the motion made by the honourable gent.—Mr. Ellison's motion was then put and agreed to.
 The Speaker  called the attention of the house to the renewal of petitions respecting contested elections, and intimated that they should be brought forward in the order of their priority, as they stood last session. Those of the fifth class were then brought forward; among the first of which were the petitions for Middlesex, Midhurst, and the Borough of Southwark.
 The Speaker  informed the house that certain petitioning burgesses, complaining of an undue election and return for the borough of Great-Grimsby, in the county of Lincoln, had failed to enter into their recognances within the period prescribed by the act of parliament, and that, consequently, their petition could not be attended to.—The house then proceeded to vote the usual standing orders of the house for grand committees on religion, courts of justice, trade, &c. &c.—Mr. Vansittart moved an instruction to the committee upon expiring laws, that they do inquire what specific laws of a public and general nature have been made by Great Britain or Ireland, or by the parliament of the united kingdom, and which of them, have expired from September, 1802, to the 22d of November 1803, &c and which of them are fit to be
 32
 Mr. Ellison  adverted to the petition of John Ogle, Esq. complaing of an undue election and return for the borough of Boston, in the county of Lincoln, against Mr. Fydell, the present sitting member. He desired that the entry on the journals respecting this petition, might be read; which was accordingly done. He then desired that an entry on the journals in the year 1744, relative to the case of a petitioner who had been allowed seven days time to give in his qualification, on account of his being beyond seas at the time he was served with notice to do so, which he said was precisely the case of the present sitting member, Mr. Fydell; which entry being read, he moved, "that Mr. Fydell be allowed seven days from this present day, in order to prepare and lay before the house, a particular account of his qualification to be admitted as a member."
 Mr. Windham  rose and addressed the chain as follows: 35 myself Angustuli 36 * 37 38
 Mr. C. Dundas,  at the bar, reported from the committee appointed to determine the merits of the petitions complaining of an un due election and return for the city of Waterford, that, pursuant to the permission of the house, that committee had adjourned from Wednesday to this day. That they had met consequently at three o'clock, when, finding that Francis William Grant, Esq. did not at tend, they had set for an hour, and then ad journed to half past four, directing the chair man to report the same to the house—The report was ordered to be brought up.—Mr. C. Dundas, as chairman of the committee, then moved, that the said F. W. Grant, Esq. be discharged from further attendance on that committee. In laying the grounds for this motion, he hoped the house would excuse him for stating briefly the circumstances of the case. It would be in the recollection of the house, that previous to the recess, a commission had been sent to Ireland for the purpose of taking evidence, which commission had been returned with the minutes of the evidence taken before the commissioners; upon a due consideration of which the committee was to decide the merits of the petitions. It would also be in the recollection of the house, that towards the close of last session, an application had been made to the house, by the consent, and for the convenience of all parties, for permission to adjourn all further proceedings till the second day of the present session; which permission the house hid thought fit to grant, and the committee had adjourned accordingly. This was a point upon which any member of the committee could not be ignorant, as it must have been equally known to all. On the second day of
 41
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the house would not accede to the motion, unless very cogent reasons should be assigned for the absence of the hon. member. To discharge a member from his attendance on a committee, was an indulgence which the house never granted but upon very substantial grounds, and unless some conclusive reasons should be assigned in the present instance, he should feel himself under the necessity of dissenting from the motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred with the sentiments that had fallen from the chair. He had no objection to discharge the hon. member from further attendance, in order to enable the committee to proceed, provided it could not operate to limit the discretion of the house, as to the conduct it may think proper to adopt with respect to the defaulter. He, however, submitted, whether the object of the motion might not be attained as well by wording it differently, that is, "to enable the committee to proceed, notwithstanding the absence of this member."
 Mr. Ward  concurred in the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and observed that the object of the hon. chairman would be fully effected by so wording his motion, which had been drawn up in the other form with an unintentional inaccuracy.
 Mr. Jarvis  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the desertion and escape of petty officers, seamen, and others, from his Majesty's service, by means or under colour of any civil or criminal process. He should detain the house, but a very short time, in stating the grounds and principles of the measure he proposed to bring forward. There were too many convincing proofs, that the processes of law had been frequently perverted, for the purpose of enabling individuals to escape from the, naval service, in which they had been employed. It would not be necessary for him to trespass on the attention of the house, by enumerating the various instances of fraudulent arrests for civil actions, or the many pretended criminal charges, under colour of which, seamen had been removed from the authority of their naval officer, and then set at large, to the manifest injury of his Majesty's service. The measure, he proposed, would correct this abuse altogether and he felt great satisfaction in assuring the house, that it would not interfere with the rights, nor infringe the privileges of any description of men. It would leave the seaman, who might be improperly impressed, in the same situation as to his habeas corpus, m which he now stands; and it would not weaken the claim of creditors, nor trench upon their just and legal rights. It would leave the arrested seaman, in the same situation precisely, as to service, in which lie stood before the arrest, as its principal object would be to secure his return to the service to which he may have belonged, as soon as the action should be satisfied. The principal object of the measure he meant to introduce, was to make sheriffs responsible for the return of such seamen as should be arrested under their authority, to the service, instead of being left at large on their release from the arrest. It was to be obligatory on the sheriff, in such a case, to convey the seaman, within a reasonable time, and for an adequate compensation, to the nearest port, and give him up to the port-admiral, or regulating captain, commanding there. The consequence of this regulation would be an essential benefit to the seaman, who would be conveyed back, to his ship free of any expense. With regard also to seamen fraudulently arrested, the bill would have a most salutary effect, as it would effectually prevent my future perversion of the process of the law, to cover the desertion of persons Serving in his majesty's navy. These were the leading features of his measure, and, he trusted, the house would concur with him in
 44
 The Speaker  observed that there were two distinct questions for the house to consider: first, whether it should be its pleasure, for the furtherance of justice, to enable the committee to proceed, by discharging Mr. Grant from further attendance; secondly, what conduct it would be its pleasure to adopt, wish respect to the hon. member who had absented himself from his duty. These questions were wholly distinct, and it would be for the house to determine in what manner it should think proper to dispose of them. There was a case in point on the journals. It was the case of Mr. Booth Grey, who,
 42
 Mr. Bragge  agreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Tierney) that such a proceeding should not appear on their journals without some document to shew why it had been adopted. He submitted to the hon. member (Mr. Charles Grant), whether he might not put what he had already stated in that form to the house, whereby it would be justified in agreeing to the consequent preceedings.—Mr. C. Grant's statement was then entered on the journals, as the ground on which the house assented to the following motions: 1st. That F. W. Grant, Esq. be discharged from farther attendance on the committee. 2d. That the committee be enabled to proceed notwithstanding his absence; and, 3d That F. W. Grant, Esq. be ordered to at tend in his place on Wednesday tha seventh day of December next.
 Mr. Charles Grant  begged to be indulged, while he stated in justification of the hon. member what he knew of the cause of his absence. The hon. member was at present on duty with his regiment, which having been lately raised, required all his care and attention. He had not been aware of the order of the house which authorised election committees to continue, notwithstanding a prorogation of parliament, and had neglected to attend under an impression that such committees were necessarily dissolved at the end of a session. This was a fact which he could confidently state, as he had himself received a letter some weeks since from the hon. member desiring to be informed on the subject, which information he was not at that time competent to give.
 Mr. Tierney  did not think the case of Mr. Grey applicable in the present instance. In that case Mr. Grey had appeared by letter before the house, in the present there was no appearance whatever: and he trusted that for the regularity of the proceedings of the House, they would not suffer such a resolution to be placed on their journals, without being accompanied by a good and sufficient reason for the ground on which they had adopted it.
 Mr. Vansittart  said, he had no intimation from his majesty's ministers, that any alteration was to be made in the act alluded to by the worthy Alderman. On the contrary, he understood it to be their intentions, that, for the present, the returns should be made, according to the act, as it now stood 5 and that this should be continued for one year, in order to afford a full and fair trial to the present system. The whole of its faults and deficiencies, which would then be perfectly understood, may be then corrected by one bill, which would be much better than to trouble Parliament at present with separate bills on every supposed and ill-conceived difficulty or imperfection.
 Mr. Vansittart  said, the expense of barracks was not one of those included in the estimates, which he had moved the house to order.
 Admiral Berkeley  wished to know, whether the expense of the barracks now building, was to be included in the estimates just moved for.
 Mr. Alderman Combe  expressed himself satisfied with the answer given by the honourable gentleman.
 Mr. Alderman Combe  wished to be informed by the Secretary of the Treasury, whether there was any intention to bring in a bill to simplify the act of last session, relating id this tax. Much difficulty was, at present felt, in making out the returns; and it was therefore extremely desirable, that it should be decidedly stated, whether any alteration was to take place in the standard by which the return was to be regulated, and the manner in which it was to be made, as the act now stood.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought it necessary to fix upon some specific day, beyond winch private petitious would not be received by the house, in order to prevent the inconvenience which frequently took place in consequence of the too long extension of the lime generally allowed for that purpose. He wished, however, to put off such limitation to such a day as should leave no room for complaints or excuse to any person desiring to petition, and he at the same time was anxious that it should be generally understood that no further time would be allowed. This arrangement he was urged to propose from a recollection of the trouble too often occasioned by the great overflow of private business at that period of the sessions, when a quantity of important public affairs was to be at-
 47
 The Secretary at War  [Mr. Bragge] could not at present give a decided opinion in what manner the estimates for the barrack department would be brought forward. He could mention, however, generally, that it was not intended to include them in the estimates for the expense of the army. As to the amount of the contracts, he should only observe that they were formed on principles of as strict economy as government could obtain. It was not to be supposed that, in the present circumstances of the country such works could be executed at as cheap a rate as in other periods. Labour had necessarily increased in price, and the difficulty of procuring workmen to complete the works with sufficient celerity naturally enhanced the demands of those who contracted with government.
 The Attorney General  rose, and observed how painful a task it must be to any man to oppose a motion supported on such grounds as those upon which the present motion was rested. But the house must feel how essential it was to pause before a precedent of such importance should be established. He certainly could not now pretend to make up his mind upon the question, and should feel it his duty to take advice upon the point, before he gave it his assent. The learnedgent. then proceeded to observe that the Waterford Committee was already reduced to twelve—that should the leave of absence now solicited, be granted, the number would be eleven, within two of the number absolutely necessary for prosecuting the business before the committee. Thus might a complete suspension of the most essential business of the House of Commons be brought entirely at a stand; be-
 48
 The Speaker  informed the hon. member that the usual mode of proceeding on such occasions, was, that the member who moved the leave of absence should come forward to the table, and state in writing the grounds upon which he rested his motion. That he should verify these grounds upon oath, and that then the house would decide on the propriety of acceding to the motion.—The hon. member having accordingly approached the table, and deposed upon oath the grounds of his motion,
 The Speaker  acquainted the house, that the grounds of the motion were, that James Pedley, Fsq. was called to Jamaica by very urgent private affairs. That he had taken his passage on board a vessel that was to sail from Portsmouth for that island, and that he had received a letter intimating to him that the ship was ready to sail without delay.
 Admiral Berkeley,  seeing the Secretary at War in his place, rose to ask a question respecting the mode in which the house were to be informed of the expense of the barrack department. When he had inquired into this matter yesterday, an hon. gent. [Mr. Vansittart] had not been able to give him an answer which he could consider satisfactory. What he desired to be informed of was, whether the expense of the barrack establishment was mentioned in the general estimates to be laid before the house. The contracts for the building of barracks were enormous, particularly in the part of the country (Sussex) where he had lately resided. At a time when the general expenses of the country were so great, it was of importance to have the expense of contracts fully considered. With the view of bringing the matter under consideration, it was, however, previously necessary that the point to which he had referred should be explained.
 Mr. Deverell,  after stating these grounds, moved, that James Pedley, Esq. have leave of absence from further attendance on the Waterford Committee.—On the question being put.
 Mr. Deverell,  a member of the Waterford Election Committee, rose to move that James Pedley, Esq. one of the members of the said committee, be excused his attendance on that committee, as his presence was necessary elsewhere, on accout of the death of a near relation, and private business of a very urgent nature.
 Mr. Hurst  brought up the report of the Committee on the expiring
 46 Robert Buxton Vansittart Steele Tierney Adams Chancellor of the Exchequer Corry
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed with, the hon.gent. that the evil of which he complained, but too certainly existed; and assured him, that it had been under the consideration of his Majesty's government. He admitted that the hon.gent. had commented justly on the baseness of such a practice, at such a crisis. The remedy, however, rested with individuals, who might easily correct a practice, that was as inconsistent with public spirit, as it was with the duty of a good citizen.—The motion was then put, and leave given to bring in the bill. After which the Chancellor of the Exchequer moved, "that there be laid before the house an account of the amount of Bank of England notes in circulation on the 1st of June, 1st of August, 1st of October, and 25th of November, 1803; distinguishing the amount of the value of those below 5l." Ordered.
 Colonel Stewart  took the oaths and his seat.—The Speaker acquainted the house, that the petitions complaining of undue elections, and the returns to the boroughs of Hull, Leominster, Shaftesbury, and Boston, had not been renewed in the present session of Parliament, pursuant to the provisions of the 28th of his present Majesty: and that he had certified to his Majesty's court of exchequer, that the recognisances in these cases had been forfeited.—General Bartlett brought up an enclosure bill, which was ordered to be read a first time.—Mr. Manning brought up the report of the committee to whom the petition of the London Dock Company had been referred, and obtained leave to bring in a bill to allow the said company to raise by loan, or otherwise, a sum of 500,000l. in addition to their original capital of 1,200,000l.—Sir P. Stephens, in a Committee of Supply, moved, that it be the opinion of the committee, that 100,000 seamen, including marines, be voted for the year 1804.—That a sum not exceeding 2,405,000l. be granted to his Majesty, for wages for these 100,000 men, for thirteen lunar months, at the rate of 1l. 17s. per min per month; that a sum not exceeding 2,470,000l. be granted for victuals for them for thirteen lunar months, at the rate of 1l. 18s. per man per month; that a sum not exceeding 3,900,000l. be granted for Wear and tear of ships for that complement of men for thirteen lunar months at the rate of 3l. per man per month; that a sum not exceeding 325,000l. be granted for ordnance for the sea service, for that complement of men for thirteen lunar months, at the rate of 5s. per man per quarter.—The resolutions were all agreed to; and the house being resumed, the report was ordered to be received to morrow.—Mr. Secretary Yorke gave notice, that he should on Friday next, move, for leave to bring in
 50
 Lord Castle reagh,  pursuant to his notice on a former day, rose to submit his motion to the house, on the subject of the East-India Company's bonds. The house would be aware of the importance of the measure he had to propose inasmuch as the value of the East-India Company's capital was materially influenced by the circumstances under which their securities were circulated in the market. The object of the bill he meant to bring forward, would be to place India bonds, as nearly as possible, on the same footing as Exchequer bills; and the operation of it, of course, would extend to two points, in which they differed from such government securities. The first point related to the manner in which the duty charged under the property tax act was levied on income, arising from such property, which rendered it less desirable to the holder, and of course, tended to depreciate its value. As the tax was levied under the provisions of that act, the directors were authorised to deduct the shilling in the pound from the interest payable on India bonds; so that, whatever may be the income of the holder, the full amount was in this instance to be levied, even though he should not possess 150l. per annum. Such a mode of levying the tax> operated directly to diminish the convenience of such property, and consequently to depreciate its value. 1l was, however, to be admitted, that the party had a remedy by an application to the commissioners for an abatement in every case, where his rate of income, or other circumstances, should entitle him to such abatement. But, when it was considered how onerous and operose such application must prove to individuals, he trusted the house would not object to the principle for simplifying the mode of col-
 51
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  after moving, "that the several acts imposing a restriction on the issue of cash in the payments made by the
 52
 The Attorney General  rose. It was far, he said, from his intention to oppose the private interests of any member of that; house, and in regard to the gentleman alluded to, he would be the last to throw any obstruction in his way. So much was this the case indeed, he said, that if the question, were at this moment put, it would be more agreeable to find that the gentleman should obtain leave of absence than that he should not. To be refused, indeed, in such circumstances, he thought would be a very hard case; and let it be brought home to the feelings of any gentleman here present, he was as sensible as the hon.gent. who, spoke last, that no one could deny the force of his argument. The hon.gent. had stated that he had said the whole of the business would be at a stand, should more of the members be absent than now were. This was not directly the idea he had expressed. He had meant to say, that if one, two, or three, were permitted to absent themselves upon business, others, might claim the, same privilege, and of course no reliance could he placed upon any committee ap-
 55
 The Speaker  said, he conceived it to be his duty to state to the house, that affairs of an urgent nature having called the hon.gent. mentioned in the motion, to the island of Jamaica, and that the gentleman having long since taken his passage, it was moved that he obtain leave of absence from the committee on the Waterford election, on
 * The following is the circumstance to which the hon. member alluded:—In consequence of the great inconvenience experienced at Portsmouth from the scarcity of cash, a meeting was held, pursuant to advertisement, at the Guildhall of that place, on the 22d of November. The mayor presided; and, after some discussion on the means of alleviating the difficulties and inconveniences so, seriously felt at Portsmouth and Portsea, for the want of gold and silver for the purposes of trade, it was unanimously resolved, that dollars should be admitted into temporary currency, at 4s. 9d. each, but that no person should engage to take more than four in one payment; and French crowns at 5s. and half crowns at 2s. 6d. 54
 The Speaker,  before he put the question, stated to the house, the number of precedents of absence, granted to members, from committees, to be eight; four of which, were for total absence, in consequence of the death of near relations. Of the other four, two were for private business, and but for two days; and the committees were in both cases adjourned, till the expiration of the two days. The remaining two were, first, the case of the Okehampton petition Mr. Pelham, one of the members of the committee for trying which, was also water bailiff to the court of sewers, and had obtained a total release from attendance on the committee, in consequence of his presence being essential to the discharge of his other duties.
 56
 Mr. Bragge  observed, that it must be in the recollection of the house, that there was no precedent in England that could apply to this motion, and as committees for the trial of Irish elections were now in this country, no arguments could be adduced on the present question, but those of expediency only. It therefore remained with the house to establish or not, as they should think proper, a precedent on the present occasion.
 Mr. Jekyll. —Sir; I do not rise to oppose I the motion of the right Don. Gent. but to direct his attention, and that of the house, to the lamentable state to which the public are reduced by the want of circulating specie. The shameful practice of hoarding up cash, has been carried to such an excessive pitch, that it is with great difficulty, specie can be procured for the common purposes of life. I am sorry to observe the prevalence of this ungenerous feeling, at a crisis, which calls for every possible exertion; and, I am assured, from the respectable authority of a principal banking-house, that, if the practice be net put a stop to, bankers
 53
 Mr. Deverell  moved the order of the day, for renewing the debate on the motion for excusing Mr. Pedley from his attendance on the Waterford committee.
 Mr. Deverell  rose. He recapitulated what he had said on the preceding evening. He stated farther, that the hon.gent. alluded to had spent seventeen or eighteen years in the island of Jamaica, and had only lately left it. It was scarcely probable, therefore, that a man in such circumstances should have left his affairs in such a situation, as not again to require his personal presence. The hon.gent. entered further into a minute discussion of the observations of the Attorney General on the preceding evening, and endeavoured to obviate that right hon. gentleman's objections. He stated, that it would be a very hard case, indeed, if gentlemen should be excluded from attendance on their own private and most interesting affairs; affairs in which their happiness and personal respectability were deeply implicated, merely because they had been appointed on a committee, the business of which might be otherwise executed without, injury to the public. He appealed to the feelings of the house. Was it a case to which anygent. present would wish, to submit. He alluded to a precedent, where nine out of fifteen had sat and transacted the busines of an election committee, whereas even in case of the hon. gentleman's absence, there would still, according to the Attorney General, be eleven on the Water-ford committee.
 Mr. W. Dundas  rose, and requested that the house would pause, before it should determine in a case of such importance, where they had nothing before them, but the general assertion of an individual, to direct their judgment. Suppose, he said, I wish to go to Scotland? If you establish a precedent of this kind, will it not be natural for me to plead business, and to direct your attention to this very precedent, which you are about to create?
 Mr. Smith  informed the house, that his Majesty had been waited upon with the address of this house, and had ordered the proper officers to prepare and lay before the house, the several estimates accordingly.—Sir P. Stephens presented estimates of the expense of maintaining prisoners of war, sick and in health; also an estimate of the expense of transport service, for the year 1804. These estimates were ordered to lie on the table; and Sir P Stephens gave notice, that he should move them in the committee of supply to morrow.—Mr. Hobhouse brought up the report of the committee of supply. The resolutions were agreed to,  nem. con. 57
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  (who was not in the house when Sir William Scott made the above motion) said, he understood that a motion had just been made, and leave given, to bring in a bill similar to that of last session, to encourage the residence of stipendiary curates. It would be in the recollection of gentlemen, that in the progress of the former bill, a motion had been made, for the house to go into a committee, to consider of the propriety of making compensation to such curates as should be deprived of their cures by the bill for enforcing the residence of the clergy. The provision, which the committee thought it adviseable to make, had been incorporated with the bill, and the bill had been rejected in the other house as informal, it was now designed, to bring forward a plan, for the relief of these deserving men, in a separate bill. He should therefore move, "that the house should tomorrow, resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, to consider of the expediency of affording a temporary relief to such curates as have been or shall be displaced, in consequence of the act of last session, for enforcing the residence of the clergy." He was authorised to state, that the proposition had the consent of his Majesty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that though some of the gentlemen near him had communicated to him the substance of the petition, he was not acquainted with the form of it, till he had heard it read. If he had been aware of the words, in which it was expressed, he would not have exercised in its favour, the discretion which his Majesty had vested in him, to give the approbation of the crown where he should think it called for. What were the avowed designs of the enemy, referred to in the petition; and what the zeal and spirit of the merchants of Liverpool to resist these designs, which he had no doubt were as great as those of any other class of his majesty's subjects, were matter, into the discussion of which, be was not now disposed to enter. There were, however, words in the petition, which, if the house should order a bill according to the petition, would render that bill objectionable. The petition alluded to works to be raised for the defence of the harbour and town of Liverpool; the house would not countenance the raiding of any works, without the express order of the King. He gave every credit to the zeal and public spirit, from which the petition originated. This remark, he was called upon to make, by his not being aware of the particulars of the petition when he gave, his Majesty's consent; a defect which the house itself would correct, and which it would allow him to supply. He recollected an instance of a similar petition in 1798. He had not then objected, for he could not make any objection; but his sentiments were such as he now slated, and he was glad to find they had the approbation of the chair. [The Speaker appeared by signs to coincide in the sentiment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.] It would be for the house to decide, whether it would sanction the precedent then established.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to be understood, not to pledge himself to the measure, by giving his Majesty's consent, so far as his Majesty was concerned. He had given it thus qualified, in order not to debar the petition from coming before the house.
 Mr. Dent  said, the measure proposed in the petition, had certainly the sanction of the majority of the most respectable merchants of Liverpool. The town had already raised a considerable sum by subscription. Twenty thousand pounds had been raised, but that was not sufficient; it was to supply the deficiency, that the measure stated in the petition was resorted to. If assistance was necessary, he was sure, though he had no pledge, that it would be afforded. It would have been highly indecent in the town, when informed by so high an authority as its commander in chief, and the general officers under him, not to shew the greatest alacrity to come forward in the most liberal manner.—The petition was referred to a committee.
 Mr. Dent  moved, that the petition be referred to a committee, to consider the matter thereof, and to report the same as it should appear to them to the house.
 Mr. Dent  moved for leave to bring up a petition from the merchants of Liverpool, praying for leave, to bring in a bill, to enable I hem to fortify their harbour and town at their, own expense.—The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, the petition was recommended by his Majesty, so far as the crown was concerned.—The petition was accordingly brought up and read. It stated, that the commander in chief, and other general officers of that district, had represented the harbour and town of Liverpool to be in a very inadequate state of defence. The mayor, bailiffs, and other officers of the corporation, having, on their part, offered to raise a great portion of the necessary fortifications at their own expense, the merchants wished to con tribute to carry the plan into full effect, so that floating batteries may be stationed across the mouth of the harbour, and by erecting batteries on such points of the coast as were thought to require fortification. For this purpose voluntary donations had been sub-
 59
 Mr. Creevey  thought it never had been conceived by the inhabitants of Liverpool, that their town and harbour were particularly in want of fortifications. During the last war, and all former wars, they looked upon themselves as perfectly secure; but now the commander in chief of their district (Prince "William of Gloucester) found out that Liverpool was a very vulnerable place, and very much in danger of attack. If, contrary to his own judgment and that of many others,
 60
 Sir William Scott  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to encourage the residence of stipendiary curates. It would, he said, be in the recollection of gentlemen, that a bill had been brought forward on this subject last year, which had passed that house, but was rejected in another place, on account of a money provision, which had been annexed to it, of such a nature as to be conceived inconsistent with the forms of that place. He had the satisfaction to state, that it was not now necessary to annex to the bill any such provision, as intimation had been given, that it was intended to bring forward a separate measure, for the purpose of providing, in a less objectionable way, for those of that deserving class of men, the stipendiary curates, who should be displaced, by the operation of the bill for enforcing the residence of the clergy. The bill, which he should propose, would, therefore, be the same with that which the house had passed in the last session, with the addition of a clause, which would facilitate its operation, and the omission of the clause, in consequence of which, the former bill had been rejected in the upper house. If leave should be given to bring in the bill, his intention was, that it should be read a first and second time, as soon as the forms would admit, and then printed and left some time for consideration.—Leave being given, the bill was accordingly brought in, and read a first time, and
 58 pro forma,
 Mr. Wharton,  from the Bank of England, presented at the bar, "an account of the number and amount of bank notes in circulation on the 1st of June, the 1st of August, the 1st of October, and the 25th of November, I803, distinguishing those under £5." Ordered to he on the table, and to be printed.—On the motion of Sir W. Scott, the stipendiary curates bill was read a second lime; committed  pro forma, 62 l. s. d. 63
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day, that the house do now resolve itself into a committee, to consider of the most effectual and expedient mode of affording a temporary relief to curates, who might be deprived of their cures, by the operation of the clergy residence act, passed last session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed, that nothing could be more commendable than the cautious jealousy expressed by the hon. baronet, respecting the application of the public money. He was anxious, however, that the house should rightly understand the object of the present motion. It was merely meant to do away an informality which has crept into a similar bill, brought forward last session, even after the commencement of
 64 l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in a committee of ways and means, drew the attention of the committee to the notice which he had given yesterday, of his intention to move this day, for leave to issue exchequer bills to the amount of five million. He stated, that he had a satisfaction in mentioning, what he had no doubt the committee would feel a pleasure in hearing, that this motion, if agreed to, was the only application that would be made, for any supply, until a very advanced period of the session. He had also to observe with pleasure, that all the outstanding bills of 1802 were now paid off and that those only were in circulation, that were issued on the credit
 65 l.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke.  I rise, Sir, in consequence of a notice which I gave a few days ago, for leave to bring in two bills to continue two acts; the one for suspending the Habeas Corpus Act, and the other for the re-enactment of Martial Law in Ireland. The house may be assured, that it is with the sincerest regret for the circumstances which render this measure necessary, that I now come forward to perform this painful duty. I am sorry to be obliged to propose any measure that may trench upon the liberies of the subject, or any of those blessings which this country justly values at so high a rate. But, Sir, it is the misfortune of the times in which we are destined to live, that we are not permitted to enjoy our lives, our liberties, or our possessions, without being daily called upon to sacrifice some part of our privileges in order to preserve the remainder, to sacrifice the best blood of the country in support of the contest in which we are engaged, and to abridge our liberties in order to preserve the existence of liberty itself. But this is no more than our ancestors often thought proper to do. There exists, however, this lamentable difference, that the periods during which it was necessary to resort to measures of this sort, were extremely short with them; but we can never rest in complete security, nor think either our privileges or our lives in safety, while France, after spreading devastation and death over her tributaries on the continent, looks with malignant envy on the happy spot, and longs to extend her fiend-like fangs to crush us also, and level us
 66 67 68
 The Hon. C. Hely Hutchinson. —With most of the sentiments expressed by die right hon. gent, who has just sat down, I rise to declare my perfect concurrence; and I am happy to feel justified in assuring the house, that the conduct of the government of Ireland since the insurrection, meets with my entire approbation. Their firmness and humanity; their activity and attention, entitles them to the utmost praise. They have in a great measure pursued that line of policy, which the wise and just would always recommend to be observed towards Ireland. Their temper and lenity have tended to cultivate the good opinion of the people; which was precisely the course, which, at the close of the last session of parliament, I had entreated should be adopted; an exhortation by the bye, which seemed to have been much misconceived; and for offering which, I became the subject of severe and unmerited censures, from particular quarters: several paragraphs (I should be ashamed to suppose from authority) were inserted in some of the Dublin papers, and also in those of this city, tending to decry the individual who had attempted to call the attention of parliament to the affairs of Ireland. I was quite unconscious, on that occasion, of having given any provocation to the friends of the noble earl, at the head of the government of that country. Such was not my object; as it was, and is, matter of indifference to me, by whom the offices of state are filled, provided government be well administered: in the mode of that administration I am, so far as relates to Ireland, particularly, interested. Connected to her by all the sacred ties which can bind an individual to his country, strengthened by a respect for the talents, a regard for the virtues, and a warm sympathy in the wishes of its inhabitants: eager as I feel for their welfare, rejoicing in their prosperity, and participating in their afflictions, I cannot but sincerely lament the necessity which ministers feel themselves under, for again resorting to parliament, for the measures now proposed. But, that under the present circumstances of that unhappy country, it is advisable thus to strengthen the hands of the executive, I cannot entertain a doubt: and I feel the less reluctance in again entrusting the Irish government with these extraordinary powers, when I reflect upon the moderation and lenity with which they have hi-
 69 70 71 provided it were united, 72 promised 73
 Mr. Hawthorn. —I shall support the motion, Sir, because, from the observations which I had an opportunity of making during the summer, I am convinced that the measures proposed are necessary for the security of the country. It is of considerable consequence to give strength to his Majesty's government in Ireland, to enable them to meet and put down the efforts of treason and rebellion with vigour and effect. His Majesty, in his gracious speech from the throne, has acquainted the house that the principal actors in the late atrocious insurrection have been brought to justice, and that the deluded multitude are returning to a sense of their duty; it is, therefore, essential to give such powers to his government in that country as will enable them to maintain the tranquillity so happily restored. Besides, the manner in which the Irish government have used the extraordinary pow-
 74
 Lord Temple  said, that he was not unwilling to give his consent to the motion, trusting in the assertion of the right hon. gent (Mr. Yorke), that the necessity actually existed for the renewal of an act which in its preamble stated  "the spirit of rebellion and insurrection to be actually raging in Ireland." Act of Union.
 Mr. Burrows  desired to be informed whether the notice of the right hon. Secretary, comprehended both the bills intended to be continued?
 Mr. Burrows  then rose to state his reason, for putting the question. He was willing to give his ready and perfect concurrence to the first proposition, but on the other question he was disposed to think that some time ought to be allowed before it should be carried into effect. This opinion he entertained not from any concurrence with the observations that had been made this night, or on a former night, tending to shew that the present government of Ire-
 76
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to offer a few observations in reply to the last speaker. He was happy to find that the hon. gent. had nothing to urge against the character of those who were to be invested with the discretionary power granted by the bill for continuing the use of martial law in Ireland, under such circumstances as might be judged expedient. The hon. gent, had, however, contended that such a bill had never been passed except where strong proofs of its necessity were produced For his own part he would venture to assert, and he would defy any gentleman to disprove his observation, that no measure had so materially contributed to prevent the mischief originating from the rebellion from extending itself, as the very measure which was now made the ground of objection. A great body of loyally had existed in Ireland, during the period that one of the most extensive and most malignant rebellions raged in that country which it was ever the fate of a government to encounter. By the exertions of this assemblage of loyal subjects, that rebellion had been suppressed, and the constitution had been saved from destruction. He must, however, be permitted to say, that it was not till the measure in question had been adopted, that the loyal part of the community were able to feel and to employ their strength. It was not till government was armed with the extraordinary powers with which the measure vested them, that rebellion was attacked in its strong holds and effectually subdued. These were the effects of the measure in putting an end to the rebellion in 1798,
 77 78 79
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  next moved, for leave to bring in a bill to continue, for a time to be limited, the bill of last session, for the Suppression of Rebellion in Ireland, by enabling government to establish martial law. On the motion being put from the chair,
 Mr. Burrows  rose to express his reasons for opposing the motion. He begged it to be understood that he did not found his objections to it from any want of confidence in those who were to exercise the powers to be granted by the bill. On the contrary, he had the most entire confidence that these powers would in no instance be abused, either by the government of Ireland or the government of this country. His objection was founded on constitutional grounds. He was convinced that it must be a principle with every man who loved the constitution, never to give his assent to a bill conferring such extraordinary powers, without the most urgent and imperious necessity. Acting on this principle, he could not, on the ground of confidence in government, consent to violate the constitution, unless the necessity of such violation was clearly established. When this bill was formerly passed, a rebellion actually raged in Ireland, and ample documents to prove its necessity were laid on the table of the house. At present KO sort of evidence to prove its necessity was brought forward. Had any parliamentary evidence been adduced? Were any facts stated to shew that the re-enactment of the bill was essential to the maintenance of tranquillity in Ireland? Had the house obtained even the bare responsibility of a minister on the subject? Not one of these grounds of the necessity of the measure had been brought before the house. Independant of all information, Members were called on to give their assent to a measure which confessedly violated the free principles of the British constitution. When any description of subjects were to be deprived of a constitutional privilege, it was necessary to proceed with coolness and deliberation. Even while rebellion raged in Ireland he had not heard of resorting to martial law, and suspending all appeal to the civil tribunals, without a considerable portion of anxiety and alarm. But what he desired the house to consider, were the specific grounds on
 80
 Mr. Carry,  pursuant to notice, moved for leave to bring in a bill to continue, for a time to be limited, the restriction on the issues of cash by the bank of Ireland. It was unnecessary for him to urge any reasons to induce the house to agree to his motion. The same motives that induced the house to entertain the bill with respect to the Bank of England, applied to the present case, and as the measure, he proposed, was always consequential to that which had been introduced within a few days by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should content himself barely with moving, that leave be given. Leave was given.—Mr. Corry then moved, that there be laid before the house, an account of the amount, of bank of Ireland notes, including bank post bills, payable at seven days sight, in circulation on the first days of January, April, June, and September, 1800; also, amount in circulation on the first days of April, May, and June, 1801; also, amount in circulation on the first days of June, August, October, and November, 1802, and first of February, 1803; also, amount in circulation on the first days of January, April, August, and September, 1803; distinguishing, in this last instance, the value of those below the value of five guineas. Ordered.
 The Speaker  informed the hon. member, that the motion before the house related only to that for allowing the suspension of the habeas corpus act, for a time to be limited, and that when that should be disposed of, the motion on the other would be put.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  could not help feeling some surprise, that any doubt could exist as to the propriety of the time for improving the condition of so important a member of the empire. He meant, however, to make only a few observations on the subject of the motion. To ascertain the situation of that part of the empire it was scarcely necessary to advert to the situation of its capital, in which every inhabitant was obliged to place a list of all
 75
 Mr. John Claudius Beresford  begged the indulgence of the house, while he made a few observations. His hon. friend under the gallery, (Mr. Burrows) had urged two objections to the re-enactment of the bill, at least, without more mature consideration. The first objection was, that no facts were produced to justify the necessity of the measure. The second objection was drawn from the thinness of the members particularly connected with Ireland, and best fitted to give information to the house on the subject. With regard to the first objection, it was unnecessary for him to take up the time or attention of the house. His right hon. friend had fully removed this objection, and he heartily agreed with his right hon. friend, that if the measure were not renewed, the same system of terror, which had been alluded to, would immediately be renewed in ail its horrors. With regard to the thinness of the attendance of members connected with Ireland, he should make one or two remarks. Having been very recently in Ireland, and having had occasion to ascertain what were the sentiments of at least three-fourths of the Irish members resident in that country, as to the expediency and necessity of the measure, he requested the house, on his veracity, to be assured, that they were to a man convinced, that the re-enactment of the bill was indispensably necessary to the preservation of tranquillity, and to the protection of all loyal subjects. They were so thoroughly convinced of its necessity, that they expected the re-enactment of the bill would be one of the earliest acts of the session. If they had not indulged such an expectation, they would, at this moment, have been in their places to solicit its re-enactment. This sentiment, of the necessity of the measure, he might add, was not confined to members, but was entertained by every loyal man in every part of the country. He, himself, had been the only Irish member, who had expressed doubts respecting the loyalty of the lower orders, in opposition to the opinion of a number of other most respectable individuals. He rejoiced to find, that the opinion he entertained of the disloyalty of the lower orders was erroneous, and that the spirit of disaffection was much less general than he had dreaded. At this moment all good men of every party were animated with feelings of loyalty, and convinced of the necessity of defending the country against the common enemy. Every man who possessed only 201
 84
 Mr. Corry  rose to make a few observations
 81 82 83
 General Loftus. —I rise, Sir, to give my most perfect support to the measures intended to be brought forward by the right hon. Secretary. They are certainly strong measures, but they are the only ones that will give security to he loyal inhabitants of Ireland. I have listened with great satisfaction to the early part of the speech of the hon. gent, who has just sat down (Col. Hutchinson), because I know there is one part of Ireland in which the opinion of 'hat hon. gent, will have considerable weight. As to the question to which the hon. gent, afterwards alluded, I think that a time of war is not the proper period for the discussion of it, or of any question tending to interfere with the constitution. I felt it my duty to say thus much, and I shall sit down with giving my cordial support to the motion.
 Sir Robert Buxton  expressed his opinion, that this was a business which deserved the most serious attention of the house. Nobody, said the honourable baronet, can feel more than I do, the inconveniencies to which that valuable body of men, the stipendiary curates, may for a time be subjected, if no relief can be granted them by the legislature. But whilst I look on this side, of the question, and admit the expediency of affording relief to these men, who must otherwise labour under considerable difficulties, I ought not to neglect to glance a little at the other side, and observe the circumstances that form more than a counter-balance to the necessities of the curates, and that is the necessities of the country. In the present situation of the country, so burthened with taxes, to support the arduous contest in which we are engaged, nothing can excuse a compliance with an application of this sort, but the most absolute necessity. In the present instance, I am by no means satisfied, that such a necessity does exist. The clergy, who before kept curates, but who are now compelled to reside on their livings, may very well spare a maintenance for those who were in the habit of performing the duty of their functions, until another provision shall occur. The clergy are certainly able to afford this expense, as it is notorious, that the value of their livings have of late received a very ample increase. These few observations, I have thought it my duty to throw out at present; at the same time pledging myself, that whenever any subject of expenditure, that is not indispensably necessary, does come before the house in the present circumstances of the country, I shall uniformly and strenuously object to it.
 Mr. Hobhouse  brought up the report of the committee upon expiring laws. The resolutions were read and agreed to, and bills were ordered to be brought in pursuant to them.—Mr. Secretary Yorke presented a copy of a proclamation issued by the lord lieutenant of Ireland, to prevent distillation from oats and oatmeal in that country. Ordered to be laid on the table.—Mr. Corry
 85 86
 Colonel Craufurd  called upon the hon. gent, to say, whether it was parliamentary language, or language which ought to be used by one gentleman to another in that house, to accuse him of an attempt to deceive the house or the public?
 The Chancellsr of the Exchequer. —Sir; in the observations which I feel it my duty to other to the house, it is my intention to follow the example set me by my noble friend near me (lord Castlereagh) and to sever the consideration of the conduct of die Irish government, respecting the insurrection of the 23d of July, from the merits of the measure now before the house; and to make that conduct, whatever it may have been, the subject of a distinct charge. However, as it has been, in this instance, brought into view, I think it necessary most distinctly to declare my opinion, that the proceedings of the high characters, to whom the management of Irish affairs are entrusted, will be found to have been, in the instance alluded to, perfectly justifiable; that they acted with the most laudable judgment; that they had procured full information of the plan of the insurrection, and had provided means amply adequate to defeat its object. That the lord lieutenant, after having taken every necessary precaution, thought proper to retire to his seat in the Phœnix-park, I am ready to admit; but that such retirement betrayed any degree of inattention to the wants or security of the state and the city of Dublin, I do most decidedly contradict, because I am satisfied, that every measure was taken, that the most deliberate investigation, and the most active vigilance could suggest. The civil power was prepared, and the army, as was seen by the result of the insurrection, was in a complete state of readiness. The superintendant magistrate of Dublin, was, at an early period of the day on which the insurrection took place, apprised by the Irish government, that
 117 118 119 120 121 122 123
 Mr. Carry  took the opportunity of the hon.
 89
 Lord Castlereagh  moved the order of the day, for the second reading of the bill for regulating the interest on India bonds; on the question being put,
 Mr. Vansittart  observed, that only one of the hen. gentleman's observations applied to the question before the house. The hon. gent, had confessed himself much obliged to the noble lord, for bringing in a bill to explain any part of the property tax bill. His noble friend's measure, however, went only to amend the mode of collection in one instance, and not to alter any of the provisions of the act. With regard to the other observations of the hon. gent. he felt it would be to travel out of the question, to advert to them. It would be found, that the act, to which the hon. gent, had alluded, though perhaps containing some difficulty or obscurity, was, en the whole, more perspicuous than gentlemen were disposed to admit.
 Mr. secretary Yorke  moved the order of the day,
 90
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  considered the greater part of the speech of the right hon. gent, to be directed more against the general conduct of the Irish government, than against (he bill now before the House. The hon. member had thought proper to assert, that the affairs of Ireland did not occupy so great a share of the attention of government, or of the house, as their vast importance required. This was a very strong charge, but of the facts on which it was to be supported he professed himself to be totally ignorant. When the hon. member thought proper to give notice of a motion respecting the affairs of Ireland, and that motion came regularly before the house, he should be ready to meet any charges which were brought forward. Till this was done, he must content himself with giving the assertion a general denial. A charge of so important a kind would require strong evidence to support it, and he did not see the propriety of bringing it forward in a loose, unsupported manner. The hon. member had said, that it was particularly the duty of those who had voted for the union, to pay the utmost attention to the affairs of Ireland. For himself, he thought it equally the duty of all members to pay every possible degree of attention to this subject whenever it came to be fairly discussed, and he had no doubt that it would at all times receive the gravest and most mature consideration, such as its high importance was entitled to. A great deal had been said in the hon. gentleman's speech about additional information. He wished to know of what description the information was which was required. The information before the house was, that the rebellion in Ireland had been suppressed, that measures of precaution were, however, indispensably necessary, more especially when it was considered that the enemy had avowed his de-
 101 102 103
 Colonel Craufurd  was adverse to the renewal of the bill without obtaining some information of its necessity, of which there was at present nothing before the house. The sum of this information, if it could be called such, was, that the rebellion was supersede, and that expectations of the continuance, of tranquillity were entertained. This, surely, was a very strange kind of information to offer to the house, as an inducement to pass a bill, which could not be characterised as any other than a measure of severity. The extraordinary negligence of the government of Ireland had been the subject of animadversion this evening, and with the sentiments expressed by his right hon. friend who began the discussion, he most heartily concurred. The hon. secretary of state had endeavoured to shew that such charges were unfounded, and lie had rested his argument chiefly on the strength of the garrison, and the facility with which the rebellion had been suppressed. But how did this representation accord with facts, at least with representations which had been given as such to the world. He had been informed, that in die evening on which the insurrection burst forth, the lord lieutenant had gone quietly to his country house as if no danger had been apprehended. The lord chief justice of the King's Bench, though necessarily in the confidence of government, was not at all aware of any insurrection, till the afternoon of the very day on which it exhibited itself in acts of public atrocity. But, this evening the right hon. the secretary of state had in his place declared, that government were aware of the projected insurrection that very day. How this declaration was consistent with the statement now made, he professed himself unable to discover. Credit was taken for the accurate information of ministers respecting the designs of the rebels, but it was admitted that the existence of their powder magazine was a profound secret. It certainly could not be pretended that the government, ignorant of this very important piece of information, could be able to form an estimate, at least a correct one, of the force sufficient for the preservation of the tranquillity of the capital. Bus, still, ministers were indignant at any charge of negligence or want of sufficiently accurate information. How far they were entitled to be so, he left it for the house to decide. He had been informed of another circumstance, which was certainly
 104
 Lord Castlereagb  rose to reply to the two last speakers. He began by adverting to the charge of want of proper attention being paid by ministers, or the house, to the situation of Ireland. He really was not aware on what grounds it was that such a charge was adduced. If it was because subjects of a
 106 107 108 109
 Colonel Craufurd,  in explanation, stated that his charge, as to the want of preparation on the part of the Irish government at the breaking out of the insurrection in Dublin, was, that the military were provided only with three rounds of ammunition, and that the yeomanry had none at all for the space of two hours.
 The Attorney General  observed, that the whole of she hon. and learned gentleman's arguments were directed against the bill, as if it were intended to be carried into adoption permanently and universally throughout Ireland: whereas it was merely intended to be temporary, and only to be acted on in such places as those wherein the ordinary process of the law should be impeded; so far, however, from its being a measure subversive of the common law, or tending to supersede generally the ordinary course of justice, it was in fact solely intended as a measure auxiliary to the common Jaw, and tending to protect its administration by proceeding in the summary process of martial Jaw in districts where rebellion or insurrection should render the process of the ordinary law impracticable. He could not avoid Considering the arguments this night offered against the adoption of this bill, as very extraordinary, considering the. persons at which, and the persons from whom, they came, and more especially front the right hon. gentleman opposite to him, (Mr. Windham,) who was a member of his Majesty's government, when a measure exactly similar to the present was first introduced, and was himself can of its most strenuous advocates and defenders. The right hon. gentleman, this night, was loud and vehement in his reprobation of this bill, and in his declaration, that it most undoubtedly was a measure which violated the constitution, and ought not to pass in the present posture of affairs. He remembered, however, when a similar measure was proposed during the administration of the right hon. gentleman; and when it was resisted by the opposition of that day, as one calculated to exasperate the people of Ireland, and to dispose them still atom to re-
 128
 The Hon. C. Hely Hutchinson. —Sir, while I highly admire the display of talent which has characterized this debate, I cannot but be of opinion, that many of the observations which have been made, might have been well spared. I confess, Sir, that I felt during a great part of the discussion, as a parent who had been just deprived of a beloved child, with the physician seated by me, detailing the circumstance, and reminding me of the agonies under which my child had perished: whilst I eagerly watched the opportunity to exclaim, "spare me, Sir, this torturing and now unavailing narrative; my child is gone—Hat loss is irretrievable: but, in the same of God, try and avert the ravages of a cruel disease from the rest of my family;" and in the same manner should I be inclined to address the gentlemen of this House, "no more of the
 129 130 131 entire
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that the alteration alluded to by the hon. I member, was certainly important; but he trusted the House would agree with him that it was also necessary. It had been thought inconvenient to make the bill continue only for six weeks alter peace, because, if that should happen in the recess, and it should be found inconvenient to allow the Bank to I pay off in each so soon afterwards, Parliament must assemble for that very purpose; whereas, if Parliament should be sitting, and six months should appear too long, the time might be shortened for there was power to vary or repeal the bill at any time, contained in the bill itself.—After a few Words from Mr. Vansittart and Mr. Swann, the amendment was agreed to. The bill was ordered to be ingrossed, and read a third time to-morrow, if then engrossed.
 Mr. Gregor  said, he did not mean to oppose the measure; on the contrary, he was obliged to the noble lord for bringing in any bill to amend or rectify the detects of the property-tax act. It had been stated from authority, that no alteration was to be made in that act during the present session; but, for his own part, he was of opinion, that it was a perfectly impracticable act. By that, he meant, that it could not be executed according to its letter; but, if executed at all, must be executed according to the arbitrary, or discretionary interpretation of the commissioners. He had received letters on the subject from two gentlemen of good sense and intelligence, who had been appointed commissioner; they were of opinion, tint the act. in its present form, could not be executed He did not mean to enter into the detail of all its clauses, and should only advert to one clause, which directed that she commissioners of the land-tax should be the commissioners fur executing this act. The hon. member contended, that in place of a board of collection, a board of controul was thus established. He threw out this observation merely to call the attention of gentlemen to the defects of this act.
 Dr. Laurence,  after expressing his agreement with the concluding sentiments of the last speaker, vindicated his right hon. friend (Mr. Windham) from the charge of inconsistency. With regard to the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, it was a measure of a very different nature from the present. That was a measure of precaution, this of punishment, and of punishment in a manner which was looked upon by the constitution with peculiar jealousy. It was barely tolerated, never praised. An assertion had been made that similar bills had been passed by the United Parliament without enquiry. This assertion w as not borne out by the fact. He had himself on a former occasion voted for the measure, because, from the proclamation, he was led to believe that a necessity existed But, what document was there before the House to prove the existence of any such necessity at this moment? The evidence, such as it was, led to a contrary conclusion. It was now acknowledged that the murder of Lord Kilwarden was not the effect of a premeditated plan, but had taken place from his being the first person who was presented to the fury of the mob. But it was on the ground of the law being more directly struck at in the person of one of its chief administrators, that he had voted for the Martial Law Bill. On the other side, a hope had been expressed by his Majesty, that his deluded subjects were returning to a state of obedience. By one gentleman the notoriety of the necessity had been urged by another it had been stated, that an invisible necessity existed. (Lord Castlereagh here said, that he had not called it an invisible necessity, he had said, that there was a necessity though not visible.) The hon. member then proceeded, to say, that he would leave the noble lord to explain to the House the distinction, and, in compliment to him, would use the term non-visible, instead of invisible. The necessity was not visible, and the notoriety which had been mentioned was, he supposed, not audible. The law, it was acknowledged, had never been acted upon, but in one solitary instance, and in that one instance he would assert, that it had been
 125 126
 Mr. Corry,  pursuant to his ma ice on Saturday, rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to indemnify the lord lieutenant, and such as had; acted under the authority of his proclamation, issued in October, prohibiting the distillation of spirits from oats, which had been laid before the house by his right hen. fiend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It would be necessary for him to state the cause and
 88
 Mr. Sargent  brought up the Report of the Bank of England Restriction Bill. On reading the amendment, which makes the duration of the Bill six months after the conclusion of peace,
 Mr. William Elliot  rose, and spoke as follows:—Sir; the observations, which I am about to offer, will be comprised within a very narrow compass. Indeed, I should not have intruded myself at all upon the patience of the house, if I could, compatibly with the view I entertain of my duty towards the country, to which this bill immediately relates, have permitted a measure of such moment to pass in a silence, that might have the appearance of a listless indifference. The affairs of Ireland must be universally admitted to merit the serious attention and earnest solicitude of every member of Parliament; but there are several among us, who are under more peculiar and indispensable obligations to watch over its concerns. I mean, Sir, those who gave their voles for the legislative union of the two countries. It does especially be hove such of us as were instrumental in the extinction of the local parliament of Ireland, to shew to die people of that country, so far at least as may depend I upon our individual exertions, that we have substituted in its place a legislature adequate, not only in means, but in zeal, diligence, and constancy, for the discharge of the trust confided to it. The local Parliament, Sir, had indisputably one eminent advantage. Being. from the very circumstance of its locality, more intimately mixed with the transactions of the country, it had a shorter and more easy access to information in respect to I its internal state than a more remote legislature can possess, This inconvenience attached to the united Parliament, the friends of the union believed, would be far over-balanced by the numerous and solid benefits likely to accrue from that measure; but no one can contend, that it is not an additional call on this Parliament, for its most active vigilance and assiduous application with regard to the interests of Ireland. The inquisitorial power of Parliament, Sir, is the very vital principle of ail its privileges and functions, and I trust this authority will ever be exercised fairly, faithfully, and impartially, throughout every part of the united kingdom. Before, we frame laws for Ireland, it is incumbent on us to have before us, an accurate state of the country for which we are about to legislate. Under these impressions, Sir, I come to the matter before us, which every one must feel to be of the most grave and critical importance. It is a demand upon us, for continuing to the executive government of Ireland, the power of depriving, at its discretion, a very large de-
 91 92 93 94 parliamentary state paper 95 know, was confined within much narrower limits than the promoters of it are willing to inculcate. numbers their wealth or their character, it contemptible in the extreme. absurd and romantick, idle, visionary even in the opinion of many of those who embraced it. the people, who had been worked into arms from one end of the country to the other in. could not be roused beyond the assemblage of a as contemptible in number as it was atrocious in disposition. But five weeks have since elapsed, and not one single and to rouse the loyal energies rouse their loyal energies. 96 97 by 98 99 100
 General Loftus  considered the bill before the House merely as a measure of precaution, and by no means one upon which the
 127
 Mr. Wilberforce  expressed his opinion upon the grand distinction which should be made between the civil and military code: that there was no ground of doubt why the measure should not be carried into effect. In the organization, breaking out, and progress of post insurrection, he found a complete justification for voting in the affirmative. With respect to the argument set up by a right hon. gentleman, that some grounds should be stated to the House, it was only necessary for him to remark, that the bill was supported by the same constitutional system which enabled his Majesty to proclaim martial law, and to call for the aid of all his subjects in case of the enemy's landing. He did not coincide in the sentiments of the right hon. gentleman, who had argued, that a despotic government would be the best of all governments, if administered by angels. For his own part, he was convinced that the nature of despotism was so bad, and tended so much to corruption, that he preferred the British constitution, administered even as it was, to the despotic government of angels. He thought the House was called upon to bestow the most serious consideration upon the state of Ireland: for it was a melancholy reflection, that a country which had been connected fur several hundred years with this, enjoying the same benefits, and in possession of the same constitution;, should be afflicted
 124
 Mr. Windham  said, it did not seem to him that the hon. gent. (Mr. Pole) had met the charge of his hon. friend (Colonel Craufurd), who did not say, that there was
 110 111 112 ex post facto 113 conciliating 114 unless until 115 116 might
 Mr. Windham  wished the honourable and learned gentleman to consider, that if he meant to expose the opinions of any one, he must take care to state them correctly: for that otherwise the triumph which he would obtain, would be a triumph only over himself. He (Mr. W) had never said, that the measure in question, though proper in itself, ought to be rejected, because it would be complained of by those, on whom it was likely to operate. He had never said, as a foundation for such an opinion, that the measure in question was proper. On the other hand, he was as little inclined to say, that it was improper. What he complained of was, that proper or otherwise, the house was adopting it without proof.
 Mr. Pole  explained that he had stated, that the hon. Colonel had deceived the house—he himself being deceived.
 Mr. Pole  did not Wish to trouble the house with any observations on the present question He only meant to set the hon. gent, who had just sat down, right as to the circumstance which he had last mentioned. The hon. gent, had attempted to deceive the house and the public. The fact was, that, previous to the 23d of July, all the troops in Ireland had been provided with 6o rounds of ammunition each. The Castle of Dublin was no depot for military stores, but there had been lodged there 8000 rounds, for serving such regiments as might have occasion to apply, and, on the first application, ample provision was made and within less than two hours, more ammunition was supplied than was required to be used during the whole course of the rebellion. He stated this from his own personal knowledge, and pledged himself to the truth of it. He had been employed by the master of the ordnance to make the inquiry, who had been alarmed by a report similar to that stated by the hon. gent.
 Mr. Francis  said, that he could not let a measure of such great importance pass without staling his opinion of it. If his Majesty's ministers have grounds sufficient to support so strong an act against a great portion of onr fellow-subjects in Ireland, and so alarming to every other part of the empire, they ought to state those grounds to Parliament. In fact, we are called upon to proceed, without evidence, in a manner which nothing but the clearest evidence can justify; that is, to put the kingdom of Ire-
 105
 Mr. Francis  did not mean to oppose the motion, though an enemy to every exercise of power contrary to law; he was inclined to approve of it in the present instance, where it had been evidently directed to secure the country from famine. The lord lieutenant, he thought, had acted right, and of the descriptions of power, the one proposed to be committed to him, by the present measure, was least likely to be abused. He should not be sorry if greater powers were given, or if the distillation of oats were altogether prohibited, for, he was confident, that much serious mischief was caused by the use of that pernicious liquor, whiskey, so made,
 Sir William Elford  called the attention of the House to an important alteration in this bill from that of the last year, which took place in a very thin committee on Saturday last. It was in filling up the blank for the duration of the bill, by the insertion of the words "six months" after the ratification of the Treaty of Peace, instead of "six weeks," which was the time expressed in the last bill. He did not mean to oppose the alteration, but felt it his duty to call the attention of the House, as it had been made in so very thin a committee.
 Mr. Graham,  Inspector of Convicts on the river Thames, presented an account of the state of the hulks from Christmas to Michaelmas. Ordered to lie on the table.—Mr. Robinson, from the London Dock Company, presented an account of receipts and disbursements, from the 1st of June 1802 to the 31st of May 1803. Ordered to lie on the table.—Mr. Johnson from the office of the Chief Secretary in Ireland, presented an account of the distribution of the sum of 500,000 l. 133
 Lord Castlereagh  moved the order of the day, for the House to resolve itself into a committee on the bill for regulating the rate of interest on the bonds issued by the East India Company. On the I motion, that the Speaker do now leave the chair,
 Lord Castlereagh  rose, and, in answer to that part of Mr. Dent's speech which referred to the Income Tax, said, that the declaration of his hon. friend neither had, nor ought to have, any reference to the affairs of the East-India Company; and he trusted that the House would not consider, at the present crisis, that any regulations which his Majesty's ministers might deem necessary in assessing the income Tax upon the property of individuals, ought to stand in the way of an important and necessary regulation, most materially interesting to the funds of a great commercial company, with the success of whose concerns die public revenues of this country were so deeply interested. He begged to call the attention of the House to the annual amount of the revenue paid to this country by the East-India Company, amounting, on an average, to £3,226,000 annually; and he trusted the House would feel too sensibly the importance of that concern which the country must have in the welfare of a company yielding such important aid to the state, to refuse, on light or trivial grounds, its assent to such regulations in die management of their funds and capital, as should be absolutely necessary to carry on their commercial concerns, under the present circumstances of the empire, without material disadvantage: for it was the province of the East-India Company, even under all the vicissitudes and disadvantages of war, to promote the commercial prosperity of the country in the most distant quarters of the globe; and this was not to be done unless they were enabled to keep a certain quantity of their funds afloat, and prevent them from returning back to their treasury, whereby their capital would be most materially diminished, and their means of trade consequently cramped. This could only be effected by enabling (hem so to regulate their rates of interest, as to maintain that respectability to their bonds, at market, which would prevent a decided preference of other-funds, to the depreciation of theirs. The hon. member had said, that the bonds of the company stood in no need of such aid, for that they at present enjoyed an advantage at market over Exchequer Bills, on account of their interest being payable half yearly. The fact, however, was otherwise; for Exchequer Bills were now at a premium of one shilling above par, whereas India Bonds were at a discount of two shillings. The noble lord then went generally into some financial statements of the company, in support of the bill: and contended that the increase of interest on their bonds was
 137
 Mr. Johnson  said, the statement of the noble lord this night was in perfect consistency with the conduct adopted uniformly by him respecting the affairs of the company. In the last session, he amused the House with a pompous statement of the flourishing situation of their finances, and the brilliant prospects of their prosperity: but what is the first illustration the noble lord gives in this session? Why, a new plea of embarrassment, and a new appeal to the indulgence of the House, for the privilege of borrowing money, to answer their exigencies, at a much higher interest than any other corporate body, or individual in this country, dares venture to offer. Such was the conduct he should ever expect from the noble lord, so long as he presided over the conduct of India affairs; ever complaining of existing embarrassments, and ever holding out specious promises of future prosperity.
 Mr. Vansittart  said, that the present bill purported no more than a temporary relief to the India Company, from a species of embarrassment which in time of war must more or less affect all borrowers, public or private. The government of the country, at such times, always filled up its loans upon worse terms than were to be had in times of peace; and no company or individual could expect to be exempt from similar disadvantages: there was nothing, therefore, unreasonable, or unfair, in this mode of enabling the India Company to meet the terms upon which only their demands could be supplied.
 The Speaker  stated, that it was usual, in
 135
 Colonel F. W. Grant,  who, on account of his absence on the Waterford Committee, had been ordered to attend in his place to-morrow, rose, and expressed his regret that he had given any trouble to the House. He stated, that it had been his intention, notwithstanding his military avocations, to attend, if absolutely necessary, on his duties connected with that House. From corresponding, however, with a friend in London, he was led to understand, that election committees were necessarily dissolved at the termination of the session, and that consequently his attendance on the Water-ford Committee was no longer necessary. The failure of duty of which he had been guilty had arisen from this misapprehension, and not from any intention to transgress the regulations of the House. The moment, ho said, he had received the order of that House for his attendance, he had set out from Dundee, where his regiment was now stationed, and where it would be necessary for him to return immediately. His military duties were of an imperious nature. He relied, therefore, on the indulgence of the House, and hoped they would attribute his absence, not to any want of respect for the House, or to any tendency to neglect his duty, but to the misapprehensions he had already stated, and the imperious commands of military duty.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose. Pie said, he did not see any reason why the restriction of payments in specie should be continued, either on the Bank of England or Ireland, to the protracted period of six months after the ratification of the preliminaries of peace It must be obvious, his lordship thought, to every person, that the paper currency of Ireland was already carried to an alarming extent. It was his intention, he said, to move in the committee, that there should be a restriction of paper circulation in Ireland, and that the Directors of that Bank should be made responsible for the issues they should make.
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, the object of the bill was not to place the company in a better situation, but to prevent it from being placed in a worse situation. India bonds were coming in every day to be paid, and if the Property Tax was to be deducted at the India-House in fractional parts, according to the number of weeks and days upon which it might be necessary to calculate, it would create endless confusion and embarrassment, and must tend to depreciate the bonds.
 Mr. Corry,  in reply to the noble lord, admitted that it was, no doubt, a subject of regret, that the paper currency of Ireland was carried to such an extent. He was ready to admit this; but, at the same time, he thought the noble lord had better delay any motion
 134
 Mr. Corry  moved the order of the day for the second reading of the Irish Bank Restriction Bill and on the motion that the bill be now read a second time,
 Mr. Dent  rose, not to oppose the committal of the bill, but to call the attention of the House to the principal feature of it, which he considered rather extraordinary, as giving an indulgence to the East India Company, which he thought extremely partial, and one from which every individual and corporate body in this kingdom, was precluded. A few nights since, the hon. Secretary of the Treasury, in answer to a question put to him by an hon. member on his side of the House, respecting the tax on property and income, amongst other things had declared it to be the intention of government, to go through with the assessment of the tax, during the present year, in the manner prescribed by the existing bill. Now the present bill introduced by the noble lord, was calculated to affect, by a side wind, an exemption of the bonds of the India Company from the law to which every other species of public stock was liable; and, consequently, to give those bon is a considerable advantage at market, over Exchequer Bills and every other species of stuck; for the whole of the interest payable on Exchequer Bills, amounted to 51. 6s. 3d. per cent, per aim. payable yearly, and he could see no reason why an exemption should be extended to India Bonds, which would give them a preference at market over Exchequer Bills, seeing that they engaged a preference by the interest thereon being paid half-yearly. At least, if such an exemption as this was given to the public funds of the India Company, with a privilege of borrow mg at such an extraordinary advance of interest, he could see no right in precluding other corporations from a similar advantage.
 Mr. William Dundas  also supported the bill; and denied there was any truth in the arguments of the hon. gent, opposite him (Mr. Johnson), that there was any proof in this bill of any embarrassment in the circumstances of the East-India Company, or
 138
 Mr. Plumer  rose and moved, "that, in consequence of the hon. gentleman's apology, the order for his attendance to-morrow be discharged."—The motion was agreed to, and (he order was discharged accordingly.—Colonel Grant returned his sin cere thanks to the House for their indulgence.
 Colonel Wood  said, he had no objection to the amendment proposed by the hon. gent. but rather than give any discretionary
 142
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  observed, that he could not agree entirely with the hon. gentleman who had proposed the amendment, though he was ready to give him fall credit for the sincerity of his intentions. His great objection was, and he thought it must occur to every person, that this amendment was inconsistent with the original spirit of the measure proposed by the bill. The bill was of such a nature as could only be warranted by necessity. If there was no necessity for the measure, it would be better to discharge the bill entirely; but if the measure was thought necessary, which the hon. gent, fully admitted, such an amendment as he proposed would entirely defeat, its object. Were it possible for regular courts to sit, or for legal juries to be assembled, there would be no occasion for such a measure; but neither regular courts nor legal juries could meet with safety to themselves in the present circumstances of the country, and it was for this reason only that die measure was brought forward. Was it possible, the right hon. gent, asked, that any court in the very heart of rebellion could previously go through any tedious process to ascertain the particular qualifications of its members, or would it be proper that every officer, in order to ascertain his age, should carry a certificate in his pocket? The principle on which the hon. gent, proceeded would go entirely to prevent, in many instances, the assembling of any court together, and at times too when it might be most necessary. The right hon. Secretary concluded by stating that, if the bill is at all necessary, it ought to pass as it is, and if not necessary it ought to be entirely dismissed; but the amendment, it was obvious, would go to defeat its object.
 Mr. Hawthorn  then brought up the report of the committee on the bill for continuing Martial Law in Ireland. The report being read,
 The Chancellor if the Exchequer  called on the hon. admiral to state.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied having used these words. A gentleman, who spoke in the early part of the debate on the night he alluded to (Mr. W. Elliot) having said, that no instructions had been given to the commander in chief, no communication made to the lord mayor; he had said, that instructions had been given to the lord mayor through the superintending magistrate, a police officer well known to the hon. gentleman. He took the earliest opportunity of declaring, that he had not the most distant idea of casting any imputation on the officer alluded to, nor had he heard, except irons the hen. gentleman, that there was the smallest idea that any imputation was supposed to exist. He was sure, that whenever the conduct of the late commander in chief in Ireland, came to be considered, it would be found as free from blame, and as creditable to that deserving officer, as any other part of the conduct of the Irish government was, to the general credit which the conduct of that government had obtained.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —What I said was, that information had been sent, at an early hour, to the superintending magistrate.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  not intend to follow the hon. member through the details of his speech, because nothing that had fallen from him appeared to him to require an answer He was anxious, however, to say a few words, which he had not before an opportunity of doing, on the observations of the
 148
 The Speaker  stated, that the object of the hon. gent. could only be obtained by moving a separate and distinct clause to be introduced into the bill.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  said, there appeared to him to be two reasons held out for voting the present measure one was, the late insurrection in Dublin. If the hope expressed in his Majesty's speech, and the address in answer to it, was to be. relied on, it was a measure of precaution. Precaution against what? Was it against rebellion, against insurrection, against dissatisfaction in the people against the government? No. If he were to exercise his own understandng, he would say it was not a precaution against fear, or against danger, but against the confidence and hope expressed by his majesty's ministers. Bearing in mind the sad and calamitous consequences which attended this measure when it first passed, he could not approve of the continuance of it and he wished to give it this decided mark of his disapprobation. The question being put, the clause was negatived. On the question, that the bill be read a third time to-morrow,
 Mr. J C. Beresford  observed, that to any gentleman acquainted with Dublin, it could not appear at all surprising, that the insurrection of the 23d of July should happen (even if such had been the case) without the knowledge of government or the commander in chief It took place in the most obscure part of the city, proceeded only through three
 146
 Dr. Laurence  disapproved of the clause; the remedy was not such as should be applied. When the general measure was before the house, his object had been to render courts martial as like as possible to those under the mutiny act. The president, under that act, should be a field officer, and age and experience were secured by the rank. He did not see why the same regulation should not hold in the present instance, nor why the courts should not consist of the same number of officers as in all other parts of his Majesty's dominions, except two places, where circumstances did not permit it. The number of troops in Ireland afforded every facility, and it was the more necessary to have this tribunal liberally constituted, as it took the individuals out of the cognizance of the other courts. The objection of the hon. gentleman, on the score of passions, amounted to nothing more than the general evil of human infirmity; and if it was to be regarded, we could not have a judge or juror against whom objections could not be made. His objection was to die; preamble, which took so wide a range, that robbing a hen-roost might be construed into an act of rebellion. The hon. gentleman had observed on a former night, that angels could not be trusted with arbitrary power: his present opinion went to say, that after twenty-one, it lost its corruptive nature.
 Admiral Berkeley. —The right hon. gentleman has mistaken me. I did not mean to say, that I conceived any imputation against that meritorious officer from the words that he spoke: yet, I do think, they conveyed an aspersion. Ths hon. officer himself thinks so; nor is he the only person who does think so. The right hon. gentleman said, that early intelligence was sent to the commander in chief.
 Admiral Berkeley  rose, not to oppose the bill, though his Majesty's ministers gave no satisfactory reason why it should pass, but to give notice that he should on an early
 145
 Admiral Berkeley  said, he alluded to what the chancellor of the exchequer said, "that the commander in chief had early intelligence of the intended insurrection on the 23d July."
 Mr. T. Grenville  not having before taken any part in the discussion of the measure before the House, did not mean to oppose it in the stage to which it had arrived; nor should he have, on this occasion, troubled the House with any observations, if some expressions, which had fallen from the right hon. secretary, had not compelled him to it, in order to exclude himself from that general conviction of the necessity of the measure which had been said to exist. He should not take up the time of the House, by entering into an inquiry whether the measure were necessary or not? but he would contend, that from the information which his Majesty's ministers had thought proper to give, no inference could be drawn of the existence of that necessity. When his right hon. friend (Mr. Windham), on the first introduction of the measure, had applied for a short delay, in, order that information might be laid before the House, his application had been rejected on the ground that the smallest delay would be dangerous in the then existing circumstances. Though he was not in the House himself on that occasion, he was at the time fully sensible of the justice of the application, but whatever argument might have applied in that instance against delay, there could be none to apply in the present. The two bills now in their stages through the House, would not expire till six weeks after the commencement of the present session. The session had commenced on the 22d of November, and the bills would of course not expire till the 1st or 2d of January. He therefore put it to the House, what possible argument could be used against a short delay, until such information should be communicated to the House, either by the report of an open or secret committee, us should justify the adoption of such strong measures. It had been more than once his lot to complain of the conduct of his Majesty's ministers, in bringing forward measures of great importance, without laying sufficient information before the House; and he took this opportunity of protesting against die manner in which the two bills before the House had been introduced. There was another circumstance too that should weigh with parliament, and
 147
 Mr. Wilberforce  accordingly made out the clause at the table, and read it to the house. On the question being put that the clause be brought up,
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, it was not his intention to trouble the house with any long or minute discussion. With regard to the necessity of the measure now before the house, he believed there could be only one opinion. He rose, not to oppose the measure nor to deny its necessity, for he was of opinion that such a measure was really necessary in the present circumstances of Ireland, and that it had been suggested by the imperious dictates of necessity alone. The only difference that existed between him and the framers of the bill, was in regard to the mode of carrying it into execution.—He did not wish to trouble the house, but he wished to propose some amendment in regard to the constitution of those courts martial to which the bill alluded. He thought, unless in a case of the most impe-
 140 141
 Mr. Wilberforce,  in explanation, said, he did not mean to cast any reflection on the integrity of young officers; but he drought they wanted steadiness, and the right hon. gentleman confirmed the opinion, when he spoke of the warmth of their feelings, That
 144
 Mr. Windham  thought that no restrictions of the kind the amendment went to establish ought to be introduced in courts martial. If he were to state his objection to courts of this description, he would say that they were not so competent as others. But this objection referred entirely to that degree of judgment which men of such habits and pursuits were likely to exercise. The great
 143
 Mr. Windham  thought, that as a charge might arise out of the statement that had been made, either against the Irish government, or the Commander in Chief, that the hon. Admiral might, notwithstanding the explanation that had been given, bring forward his motion, though not for crimination for the justification of his hon. rela-
 149
 Sir John Newport,  returned by the Committee member for Water-ford instead of Mr. Alcock, took the oaths and his seat.—A private petition was brought up respecting the widening of the Canterbury Road. Ordered to lie on the table.—Mr. C. L. Dundas brought up the report of the Waterford Committee, which stated, that the Committee had found the election of Mr. Alcock illegal and defective, and that consequently they had declared Sir John Newport the legal member.—Mr. C. L. Dundas also in pursuance of this report moved, that the Deputy Clerk of the Crown be ordered to attend to-morrow morning, in order to erase the name of Mr. Alcock, and alter the election. Ordered.—Mr. Sargent brought up the report of the Qualification Indemnity Bill. Ordered to be read a third lime to-morrow.—Mr. Corry moved the order of the day for a Committee of the whole House on the Irish Sugar Drawback Bill. The alterations adopted by the Committee were purely verbal.—The House being resumed the report was ordered to be received to-morrow.—Mr. Corry moved the order of the day for the Irish Distillery Bill. It was read a second time, and ordered to be committed to-morrow.—Mr. Corry moved the order of the day for a Committee of the whole House on the Irish Promissory Note Bill. The House having resumed, the report was ordered to be received to-morrow.—Mr. Corry moved the order of the day for a Committee of the whole House on the Irish Provision Bill. The blouse hav
 139
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that, in consequence of the absence of his right hon. friend who had been the mover of that bill, he thought it would be most proper to postpone the consideration of that report for the present; and as he had no doubt that the house would immediately concur in that opinion, he should move that the report be taken into further consideration to-morrow. There would most probably be a good deal of business then before the house, but it could easily be farther posponed till a more important discussion should happen to arise. The consideration of the report was then deferred till to-morrow.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that he thought there could be very little difference of opinion as to (he probability, or even the certainty, of his Majesty's giving t a most gracious reception, as a petition for a grant of 10,000. had at a former period received that sanction.
 The Speaker  observed, that he thought it his duty to inquire, before such a petition was entertained as the present, whether it had received the approbation of his Majesty, as it would, if the prayer should be finally agreed to, be voting away the public money to the use of individuals, which requited that fact to be first ascertained.
 Mr. H. Thornton  then moved, that the petition be referred to a committee, to examine the matter therein contained.
 Mr. H. Thornton  presented a petition front the Siena Leona Company, praying for pecuniary assistance from Parliament.
 Mr. Dent  stated, that the report of the state of the company's funds had been to very favourable, that in his opinion, that was in itself, the very best reason that that possibly could be against granting the prayer of a petition for parliamentary aid.—The question was then put, and the petition referred to a committee.
 Sir C. Pole  then told the hon. baronet that most probably that gentleman's name might be mentioned, but he did not think it a circumstance by any means likely to occur, that any comment should be made upon the subject.
 Sir C. Pole  said, that in his opinion there
 150
 Sir W. Elford  then desired to be informed if it was not intended to mention the name of that gentleman, or make any observation whatever upon the subject to which he alluded?
 Sir W, Elford  adverted It a motion which had been made by him during the last session of Parliament, respecting the dismissal of a gentleman from his employment in his Majesty's dock yards. He wished now to know, and he was happy to rind that an hon. baronet was now in his place in that House, who might possibly have it in his power so inform him, whether it was the intention of the commissioners appointed under the authority of that house, to make any report upon the subject?
 The Secretary at War  (Mr. Bragge) moved the order of the day that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, and that the Estimates presented by him on a former day be referred thereto.—The House having accordingly resolved itself into a Committee, Mr. Hobhouse in the chair:
 The Secretary at War  rose, and observed, that notwithstanding the magnitude and importance of the subject to which the estimates now under consideration referred, he should not feel it necessary for him to take up much of the time of the Committee in adverting to the different items, or explaining the nature and grounds of the different estimates to which it was his duty to direct their attention. It would be altogether needless to dwell upon the particulars, because the estimates voted last session, comprehended nearly the whole of those now produced, and gentlemen having been familiar with the nature and extent of the former, it was the less incumbent on him to occupy much of their time in his statement and explanation of the latter. He was bound, however, to acquaint the Committee, that the estimates now before them did riot comprehend the whole military establishment of the year, because, from the nature and extent of the different services included in it, and the possible variation which might arise from a possible alteration of the circumstances and state of the country, the whole could not with accuracy be ascertained, so as to be produced to Parliament in the shape of an unquestionable document. He could assure them, nevertheless that
 158 
 
 Numbers. £. s. d. 
 1. Guards, Garrisons, &c. 129,039 
 For Great Britain 3,115,456 9 9 
 For Ireland 1,161,168 2 11 
 Total 4,276,624 12 8 
 2. Forces in the Plantations, &c. 38,630 1,174,509 16 6 
 3. India Forces for Great Britain 22,897 545,628 4 2 
 4. Troops and Companies for recruting do. for Great Britain 533 29,859 14 9 
 5. Recruiting & Contingencies for Gt. Britain. 180,000 0 0 
 6. General and Staff Officers, with a state of the particulars of charges 154,647 3 10 
 7. Embodied Militia and Fencible Infantry for Great Britain. 109,947 2,150,965 10 6 
 For Ireland 640,657 17 0 
 Total 2,791,623 7 6 
 8. Clothing for Great Britain. 215,793 14 6 
 9. Contingencies for Great Britain for England 50,000 0 0 
 For Ireland 11,129 7 0 
 Total 61,129 7 0 
 10. Volunteer Corps for Great Britain 730,000 0 0 
 For Ireland. 1,390,567 13 11 
 Total 2,020,567 13 11 
 For Great Britain 301,046 8,346,860 14 0 
 For Ireland 3,103,523 0 10 
 Deduct for India Forces 22,897 545,628 4 2 
 Total for Great Britain 278,149 780,232 9 10 
 Grand Total 10,904,755 10 0 159 160 l 161 162
 Mr. Secretary Yorke. —Sir; after the very long, and certainly very entertaining speech, which you have just heard, I fear mat I shall neither merit, nor be able to obtain from you and the House, that patience and that a tension, which I shall have ample occasion for, in replying to the attacks that the right. hon. gentleman has made on me, and on most of the measures of the present administration. The hon. gent, has quoted a passage of very indifferent poetry, to prove that mere is "nothing good we say, and nothing wise we do;" but, in my opinion of the country, and of tins House, the present government, if may judge from the experience of the last session of Parliament, or the actual feelings of the people, has little to apprehend from he opposition of the right hon. gentleman, or the application of what he has quoted. During that session, it must be admitted that we heard many excellent opposition
 183 184 185 in limine. 186 187 188
 Mr. Pitt. —It is not my intention at present, Sir, to follow the example of my right hon. friend, (Mr. Windham) in taking that detailed and comprehensive view of the subject before the Committee; neither is it my intention to go into any retrospective discussion of the measures of government, nor to inquire whether the extraordinary means with which they were entrusted before the last prorogation of parliament, have been exercised with sufficient vigour and ability. Considering the danger with which the country was threatened as not yet past, convinced that the crisis still impends, and that still we have further efforts to exert, and further precautions to adopt, in order to enable us to meet it, I am anxious to direct your attention only to such points as are peculiarly urgent, and on which delay would be inconvenient, if not dangerous; and to suggest prospectively, the consideration of those objects which are immediately connected with the public security. I am still less inclined at present to examine all the questions that might be included in the resolutions presented to the Committee, opening a wide field of discussion of the conduct of government and the state of our defence. I wish to confine myself particularly to what is more directly before us—the nature, the amount, and the proposed management of the military force of the country. I am the more anxious to do this, as I have the misfortune to differ fundamentally from my right hon. friend, with regard to what should be the nature of that force to which we ought to look as a permanent source of safety throughout the whole of this contest, however long may be its duration. No man thinks more highly than I do of the importance of a regular military force, or of the regular force of this country. No man is more convinced that the excellence of regular military forces is unattainable in the same degree by any species of force which can be employed; but, in the last session of Parliament, I professed an opinion, which I still maintain, that there are other kinds of force to which, as subsidiary
 189 190 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 198
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  observed, that the right hon. gent. (Mr. Pitt) had urged the necessity of voting more money than was now proposed for the service of the volunteers, in order to make them, as he advised, more perfect, by means of the addition of a field officer and an adjutant; and he had stated his conviction, that this 'would have a very good effect. He wished with the right hon. gent, that this important force should be made as complete as the nature of it was capable, consistently at the same time with necessary economy. But he could not I help observing on that subject, that time would be necessary to consider this matter before it should be adopted. In all the corps adjutants were allowed pay; but it could not be contended that they should be allowed pay for the whole year, if they had to attend only 84 days, as stated by the right hon. gent., and government should not rashly run into this sort of expense. The last act of Parliament made upon this subject provides, that the volunteer corps should be subject to such regulations as his Majesty should think fit to make, and the compulsory clause in the act for calling out the mass, might be referred to as occasion should require. He observed, that although 20 days pay was to be allowed to those who had been trained for 20 days, yet they were not to be allowed it unless they had been trained and exercised on the Sunday preceding. And most of the volunteer corps had been exercised 40 and 50 days, and many of them much more. Now, all the volunteer corps had not only adjutants upon their establishment, but they were entitled to pay, yet they were not entitled to pay until called out; and upon the principle of economy, he did not think that government would be justified in granting them permanent pay, unless their attention to the station was permanent. It could not be expected that they should receive pay for the whole year, for 84 days, any more than for 40 or for 20 days. He thought, however, that what was stated by the right hon. gent. deserved great consideration. He said he wished to be careful of incurring great expense: he did not say it was an expense that ought not to be incurred, although the price was stated to be 500,000l. It certainly was not absolutely necessary to be voted to-night, because the present resolution proposed to the Committee, if adopted as it stood, would
 199 200
 Lord Castlereagh. —I perfectly concur in the opinion, with which the right hon. gent, who spoke last (Mr. Grenville) has opened his speech; "that the present is the natural and fit occasion, not only for examining the military arrangement, which government proposes prospectively to adopt, but also for examining what use ministers have made of those powers which, in a former session, were entrusted to them by Parliament;" nor should I be disposed to complain that another right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham) should have questioned upon the present occasion the policy of that system of measures, to which the sanction of Parliament was formerly given, did not the review which he has taken of that system, appear to me not so much calculated to guide our policy hereafter, as most unjustly to depreciate and disparage the various efforts, which the country has made for its security, and to deny to all, except the troops enlisted for general service, the share of merit and
 203 204 205 206 207 208 209
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —I can only repeat on that subject what was said upon it by a right hon. friend near me, (Mr. Yorke) when the debate relative to those, bills took place. If the right hon. gent, did not then chose to attend in his place, he has no right now to call on the subject pending another discussion.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke —"Sir; the unprovoked way in which the right hon. gent. (Mr. Fox) has thought proper to attack a noble relative of mine, and the unusual terms of asperity be has used, makes it necessary for me to say a few words. Upon the subject of Ireland, I say, let every one come forward and explain what he knows: then, "Fiat justitia ruat Cœlum," If the right hon. gent, means, in the exculpation of the
 229 230
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —I join with my noble friend (Lord Castlereagh) in the necessity of this country redoubling her energies, in consequence of the envy and immoderate ambition of the enemy with whom we are now seriously contending. It is unquestionably true, that it is a melancholy consideration, that our present necessity is created not by our wealth and our freedom, but by the envy and hatred that wealth and that freedom have excited in the breast of our enemy. The hon. gent, who spoke last, I was happy to hear express his strong conviction of the necessity of putting forth all the energies of this great country. I have now risen, Sir, chiefly to make a few remarks on his wish to know what was the view government have of the character of our numerous and patriotic volunteers. One right hon. gent. dislikes to see them in regimentals; he wishes them not to look like soldiers, and to wear no uniforms. Another right hon. gent, wishes to see them approximated much nearer to regular soldiers. My opinion, Sir, inclines much more to the latter right hon. gentleman's suggestion. I do wish to maintain that force in its strength, and render it available to all the great purposes for which it was instituted. But I wish it to be considered, that upon the present system on which our volunteer strength has grown up and flourished, there is such a hearty and universal cooperation and affection among the various corps, that it might be very unwise to try any sudden changes. The hon. gent, who spoke last says, we should increase: he regular force, and that my noble friend, in his statements, has blended the accounts of the forces in England and Ireland. I am
 226 227 228
 Mr. Secretary York —I meant to say, that the commander in chief had every opportunity of knowing the information disclosed at the Castle, on the morning of the 23d, that the Lord Lieutenant had.
 The Hon. C. Hely Hutchinson. —Sir; upon a question of national defence, and at a moment critical as the present, I feel it to be my duty, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, to trouble you with a very few observations. I give ministers full credit for the exertions they have made in caliing forth the strength of the country by tire volunteer associations, undoubtedly a force highly constitutional, and although not new in theory, has now, for the first time, been thus extensively adopted. Notwithstanding the firm reliance I place on the zeal and loyalty of the volunteer force, which I doubt not, will in the hour of attack be found highly service able, and solicitous to encounter every danger, I cannot at the same time but lament, that ministers have not deemed it advisable to decrease that species of force, and in a very considerable degree to augment the troops of the line; but, upon this topic, I purposely refrain at this late hour from enlarging, particularly as it has been already so ably and fully discussed. My principal, indeed sole object for troubling you at this moment, is in consequence of a subject which has been introduced by an hon. member (Mr. Fox) who has lately spoken. Upon it I have long had a decided opinion. I consider it a subject of great public moment, and I feel that in times like the present, to hesitate to deliver such an opinion, would be to shrink from the discharge of my public duty.—Such is the nature of the contest in which we are involved, so awfully critical the present state of things, so inveterate our foe, so various and formidable his resources, and so unceasing his machinations to destroy us, that it has been found necessary that his Majesty should avail himself of the appearance in arms of almost every description of his subjects; and so serious does his Majesty-deem the meditated attack, that he has been graciously pleased to gratify and animate his faithful subjects, by declaring his royal
 233 234
 Mr. Pitt and the Chanceller of the Exchequer  respectively spoke in explanation, relative to some points which had been discussed in an early part of the debate—Mr. Windham and the Chancellor of the Exchequer also spoke, severally in explanation.—Mr. Pitt, in further explanation observed, that a sufficient number of field officers for the purposes he had mentioned with respect to volunteer corps could without difficulty be obtained. He did not mean persons who should hold that rank at the time of their coming to those corps; there were a number of persons of the rank of captains, of a certain number of years standing, who would be fully competent to the purpose, and would make very respectable field officers.—The questions were then put, on the different resolutions moved by the Sec. at War, as well as those moved by the Sec. of die Ordnance Department, all of which were severally agreed to by the Committee. The House then resumed, and the report was ordered to be received on Monday.—The Committee of Ways and Means, and the other orders of the day were then deferred till Monday, and at 3 o'clock the House adjourned.
 Mr. Fox. —With respect to the impenetrable silence of the right hon. gent. unless on condition of his Majesty's command, it might be well, perhaps, if he had extended that discretion to the case of Ireland also. He is asked, if the government of Ireland did not express a wish for the recall of the commander in chief. He does not say, I never knew of such a wish, but "I see no complaint against General Fox." This is no answer whatever, and the right hon. gent, had better have wrapped himself up in state silence, than have made any such reply. To evade is next to saying nothing. He is silent as to the Prince of Wales; as to the affairs of Ireland he evades the question. How is it possible the Lord Lieut., I again repeat, could at such a moment wish the recall of the commander in chief, and not cast a censure on him? It could not be. I assert that government here, when they knew the disposition and opinion of the government of Ireland, did not take proper means to investigate the cause of their wish, and ascertain where the blame, in fact, existed. In such a state of the case it is trifling to say no censure is implied. It is not consistent with common sense to exact martial law and suspend the Habeas Corpus Act, for a riot so contemptible, as the rising of the 23d of July was now represented. In the nature of things, it cannot be that ministers are sincere on that point; and, if the rising be once serious, blame must attach somewhere.
 Mr. Fox. —In no sense can my observations be considered as an unprovoked attack, as the consideration of the character of general officers arises naturally out of the subject now before the House, and I always thought it right to go into those points. I have some reasons to think, that the government of Ireland was well attached to the commander in chief, and that between him and the Lord Lieut, a perfect good-will subsisted, previous to the events of the 23d. After that period a coolness arose between them; the abuses which took place, might have arisen from certain rumours, traceable to the castle. As to one, I can say, he conceived the other had spoken of him in a way which he did not deserve, and that he had not been informed, as it was intimated, of the intended rising on the 23d. If he had been so informed, was it not natural the lord mayor would have been told? It is impossible it could be otherwise. I repeat again, that the government of Ireland must have been surprised, or they were accomplices in the death of Lord Kilwarden. In the same situation, I equally should have said the same of the commander in chief. The question is, whether that officer had communicated to him any sufficient ground of alarm, to authorize him to take measures of precaution, and, in particular, to apprize Col. Brown of the risk. What, if it can proved that the Lord Lieut, gave him orders not to alarm any one! And, as to the steps taken by him, what, if his lordship sent to express his surprise, and said, I suppose, by what you are doing, you must act on some information unknown to me! The letter sent to the commander in chief was not received; so the Lord Lieut, had more ground than he to conceive the extent of the danger. On the existence of a coolness, which compelled the government here to choose between the Lord Lieut, and commander in chief, they did, as was natural, determine for the former; but what I complain of is, that they never instituted any inquiry into the cause of that coolness. It was, however, obvious to common observation, that two such persons could not originate a misuuder-
 231
 Mr. Fox. —I do not rise, Sir, to enter into a discussion of all the points that have this night been touched upon in the course of the debate; they are all, no doubt, of high importance, and deserve a distinct and full consideration. But I shall now abstain, as much as possible, from every
 210 211 212 213 214 215 216 217 propria qua maribus? 218 219 220 221 222 223 Edward Fitzgerald. 224 was present, 225
 Admiral Berkeley. —I am sure the right non. gent. (Mr. Yorke) is above all wish of being misunderstood. Does he mean to say, that the commander in chief of Ireland knew and was apprised of the intended rising on the 23d of July.
 Mr. Corry. —As I have been in Dublin since the unfortunate events of the 23d of July, it may be expected I should say something on this subject, upon which I made it my business when there 10 make a minute inquiry. The civil government were apprised of an intended rising on the 23d of July. This clearly appears. Inconsequence they warned the civil magistrates, at the head of which was the superintendant of Dublin. The mistake is, that officer is unknown here. The lord mayor of Dublin is not like the lord mayor of London. It is not he, but the superintendent who has the charge of the peace. He was informed of the rising, and actually armed, and called out an additional number of peace officers; from this, it is clear, the government of Ireland we re not surprized, and that they look every step which would be thought essential. The interview at the castle, between the commander in chief and the Lord Lieutenant could be proved. The details of the intelligence were then laid before them, and the civil government had certainly a right to conclude, that the commander in chief hail taken every military precaution which the circumstances would warrant. Whether he did or not, or what those precautions might be, I am not prepared to say, as, in fact, made no inquiry on those subjects. That the conspiracy existed, and that to a dangerous degree, I conceive to be the foundation of the late bills, for continuing martial law and suspending the operation of the Habeas Corpus Act. With this object, the late insurrection is unconnected. That was, in truth, contemptible. On the com vision of these two circumstances, the former insurrection and present conspiracy, depends all the difference of opinion now and lately expressed; whereas, in fact, there is no inconsistency, no contradiction. The insurrection was contemptible; the conspi-
 232
 Lord de Blaquiere. —I cannot admit, Sir, that the insurrection on the 23d of July was a matter to be lightly treated. It was, in my opinion, a rank and dangerous rebellion. The castle of Dublin was certainly surprised. A plan was on foot to stop the mail coaches, and if that had taken place, the whole country would have risen. Under these circumstances, I think inquiry should be instituted, for heavy blame, must attach somewhere.
 Mr. T. Grenville  was surprised that his right hon. friend and relation (Mr. Pitt) had thought it was only expedient at this time, to take a prospective view of public affairs; he considered the present as the natural and fit occasion, not only for examining the military arrangements which government proposed prospectively to adopt, but also for examining what use ministers had made of those powers, which, in a former session, were entrusted to them by Parliament. He did not think any thing said by the right hon. gent, opposite to him (Mr. Yorke) such an answer to the objection of his right hon. friend as to have called on him, or any other of those who embraced his sentiments, to make any observations on the present occasion, had it not been from what fell from his right hon. relation (Mr. Pitt). With every wish to agree in any opinion expressed by that right hon. relative, he could not bring his mind to concur in the sentiments which had fallen from him that night. He thought his right hon. friend had taken a contracted view of the subject. No evidence was before the House of the volunteers being at all in a state of becoming effective. How then could it be argued, that they could ever become so completely effective as to prove a substitute for our regular army? It was not, perhaps, common to give an account to the House of the amount of the regular army. It was easy, however, for any gentleman, comparing the statement of the Sec. of State with the other known branches of our military establishment, to know what that force actually was. The whole was stated by the Sec. at War to amount to 120,000. By subtracting the militia we could at once see the amount of our regular force. The militia was 70,000, which being deducted from the whole regular force, as stated by gentlemen themselves, there remained 50,000. In this number, it was necessary to observe, the army of reserve was comprehended. Was it possible, then, to conceive that such was the force of the regular army of this country?—But he did not wish to stand on any small ground of objection. It was known pretty well what was the
 201 202
 Mr. Windham  explained what he meant in that part of his speech which adverted to sea fencibles, to refer only to the places in which they were to be employed; all he wanted was, that they should be employed in proper places, and for proper purposes.
 Mr. Windham  began by adverting to the manner in which the business had been opened by the hon. Secretary, which, he said, though very proper at any ordinary time, and though possibly very proper then, was so different from the view which he felt himself compelled to take of the subject, that his observation, he feared, would appear very little to arise out of the statements which the House had just heard. His view of the subject went to the general de-
 163 Poor women have but two; There's nothing good they say, and nothing right they do. violence, insult, aggression; 164 they quantum maximum minimum? 165 to gauge the House, 166 try possessed: employed creation created? 167 168 (Hush'd in grim repose expects his evening prey,) 169 170 There 171 five six four 172 living inanimate 173 was 174 175 every any. 176 in paritrochio, 177 corresponding 178 179 180 Redde mihi, Vare, legiones. 181 182 stimulus
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  in pursuance of the notice he had given yesterday, rose to move for leave to bring in a bit to explain and amend the acts of 42 and 43 GEO. III. so far as they related to the exemptions to be enjoyed by volunteers. From what he had heard in the House yesterday, and what he had learned from other sources, he knew that much difficulty existed in the interpretation of these acts. It was indeed hardly to be expected that every person should hue read them over, so as to know precisely their provisions in the manner the law required He therefore thought it right to prefer this bill for the purpose of explaining those acts in that part where explanation was most immediately necessary. The bill which he meant to prefer would go only to regulate the exemptions. There were other points also, he was aware, which required explanation, and it might perhaps be necessary to go into an entire review of the volunteer system, in order to correct and strengthen it; but as this should be done not hastily, but with mature consideration, he thought it better to defer it till after the recess. The object of the bill he meant to propose would be, first to enable such commanders of corps as had not given in their returns to give them in now, and to provide that the certificate of such commander should be effectual to secure the benefit of die exemption to the individual. This exemption extended equally to the militia and the army of reserve. The return should specify, whether the men attended with arms and otherwise accoutered, so as to be considered as effective; if he attended without arms, there was to be a special return, stating the reason why, and this special return, and the certificates founded upon it, should also give a title to the exemptions. It was extremely advisable, while the exemptions were secured to every person who was entitled to them, to do every thing that could be done to prevent abuses arising from too much relaxation: he thought it necessary to provide that from the 1st of May next, 24 days regular attendance in training and exercise
 236
 Mr. Hiley  Addington was pleased with the bill that was proposed, but at the same time he concurred in the propriety of what had been said by the hon. gent, who had just sat down. He was sure that the plan proposed last night would not do; if it would be compulsory, it would excite discontent and if it were to be optional, it would be nugatory, as very few would be inclined to avail themselves of it. He believed at present there were only four or five corps in the kingdom that had field officers of such a de cription. He was sure an adjutant would be a more effective person; and it should be recollected that five years service in the army was necessary to qualify those adjutants—But whether those adjutants could be expected to attend drills 84 days without a larger allowance It was impossible for day labourers, of which description of men the greater number of country corps consisted; that with he had the honour to command consisted of them exclusively, to attend without pay. He had taken upon himself the risk of having his corps imperfect from the want of an officer of that description recommended by the hon. gent. Ser-
 238
 Mr. Secretary York  said, there was this general regulation at present to render the volunteer corps complete and effective; that the corps would be disbanded, and the compulsory clauses resorted to, if they were not filled to the amount required by his Majesty's government. This was the standard which it was thought fit to adopt at present. Several other regulations may be useful, but ha thought better not to press them now. He did not think his Majesty's ministers would be justified in entering at once into the expense which would be required for the measure recommended by the hon gent. It was the best way to commence with an expense as low as possible, which could be increased if that was found necessary, whereas, if we communed with a high expenditure, which we afterwards found we could not reduce, the improvement could not be made without the evidence of our actual loss. He begged also to impress the point urged by a noble lord (Castlereagh) last night, that it would be impossible to furnish such a number of officers from any; army so much drawn upon already There were 1500 corps, and if an adjutant were to be allowed to each at 100 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred in what had fallen from his hon. friend, and in a great measure with what had fallen from the hon. gent, over the way (Mr. Curwen). He concurred in the principle of what had been proposed last night, as far as it was consistent with other principles, and parti-
 239
 Mr. Hobhouse  brought up the report of the commitee of supply. The resolutions were agreed to  nem. con 235
 Mr. Curwen  was sorry the right hon. gent, was not prepared at present with any measures to enforce the continuance of the service, of the volunteers. The danger was, that many of them as soon as the present ballot was over, would attend no longer, and thus being lost to the militia and the army of reserve, would be lost also to the volunteer corps. He wished therefore, that the present measure were coupled with some general regulations for the corps. He thought it wise in ministers to be as saving of the public money as was consistent with the public interests, and the public safety, but at the same time he thought it would be wise to enter on some general plan for the improvement of the volunteer corps. He did not think that the plan proposed last night (by Mr. Pitt) would go down. The volunteer officers were pledged to their corps to accompany them where ever they should be ordered, and of course they would not tike that a field officer should be put over their heads, neither would the appointment of such an officer be agreeable to the volunteers who composed the corps. He thought it would be much better to give serjeant-majors and adjutants in greater numbers, to give a second serjeant, and a corporal, with permanent pay. It was well known that the discipline of the men depended on their haying good non-commissioned officers. He was sure too much could not he said of the honourable principles and feelings of the volunteers in general. But though an ignominious discharge from the ranks would have the fullest effect in many instances, it would not in all. He thought it better that intoxication, disorderly and unsolder-like conduct should be punished by a small fine, peremptorily and immediately enforced. He was-sure that the effect of this, and some similar regulations, would produce a degree of good conduct and emulation, which would
 237
 Colonel Crawford  rose and spoke as follows:—Sir; in he debate which took place on Friday last, the Committee was so long occupied in attending to the speeches of gentlemen either the most distinguished for their talents or of the greatest weight from their official situations, that I thought it better to defer offering my opinions on the subject until the report should be brought up.—Amongst the various topics which have been, or naturally may be introduced into this discussion, there is to one which more prominently presents itself to my mind, than that which in the last session formed the ground of a specifick motion in this Mouse. I mean, the establishment of a military council.—At a time when (in addition to the immense sums that the public is called upon in other ways to contribute for military purposes) Parliament deems it necessary to vote establishments so large and expensive as those contained in the estimates now before us: at a time, Sir, when we are engaged in a war the met arduous and critical in which this country was ever involved, it undoubtedly is the first duty of every member of this House, to suggest all those means which in his judgment would conduce to the bringing our military system to the highest pitch of perfection, and to the placing die national defence and security upon a great,
 262 bim 263 military, naval 264 265 nature 266 one 267 entirely 268 mistake commenced? if we are really exposed to invasion, 269 one 270
 Mr. Rose  said, it was by no means his intention to oppose any of the resolutions, but he wished to make a few observations connected with the general subject before the House, The principle point on which he meant to trouble the House, related to the measures necessary to be adopted in the event of marchingivotunteers to the coast. It appeared to him that the sum, proposed to be voted for volunteers, was too small, because, upon the best calculation he could make, it would require very little less than one million. If they were to be employed at all in that way, he thought that some provision ought to be made for their families. Upon this subject he had lately had some correspondence with one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and he begged to acknowledge the great readiness which that right hon. gent, bad shewn to attend to his representations. There was in one of the acts a provision upon this subject, in case the volunteers were called out upon actual service. Some doubt had arisen respecting the word "called" out on actual service; but, in his opinion, if they were out, some provision ought to be made, for their families, Some or the corps in his neighbourhood were now upon actual duty, and when they offered their services fos that purpose, they made no stipulations upon the subject. When he learnt from the Lord Lieut. that it was wished that some of the volunteers should march to the coast, he assembled the corps nearest to him, and when the proposal was made to them, they cheerfully offered their services: of 296 there was but one man that made the smallest objection to it. Afterwards, some of them came to him, and represented the impossibility of their maintaining their families. The corps, to which he alluded, was in general composed of labouring men, who earned, upon an average, about nine shillings a week; with this they were enabled 10 maintain their families. If they were marched from home, they would receive a shilling a day, out of which it was obvious they could not maintain both themselves and their families, it would, therefore, be absolutely necessary that some provision should be made for their families, otherwise it would be impossible for them to
 271 272 273
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  entirely concurred in the opinion if the right hon. gent, who had just sat dow; but thought the subject might be more properly dicussed on the particular resolution than on the report. The volunteers, in his own opinion, were not entitled to such allowances, either by the 42d or 43d o!" his Majesty, though the Board of Treasury had issued orders to the receivers general to make them, in case of volunteers called out on actual service. But if any doubt existed in the minds of other gentlemen on the subject, a clause to remove it might be introduced into the Bill, now before the House, for amending the Volunteer Acts, which he proposed to have read a second time this dry, in order that it should be committed tomorrow. Government had not called on the services of the volunteer corps to the extent that might have been thought desirable, from the difficulty of procuring accurate returns. The number now on duty voluntarily was about 14,000 He was not aware of any thing more he had to say: when the resolution should be under the consideration of the House, he should take that opportunity of stating his opinion as to any observations it may give rise to.
 Mr. Pitt  did not mean to object to the Report, because he fully concurred in the resolutions contained in it, to the utmost of their extent. He rose only to correct some mistatements from misconception, which had been made of his sentiments on a former day. With respect to a proposition which he had thought it his duty to submit to the House, on that occasion, for the formation of volunteer corps into battalions, and the appointment of field officers to each battalion, one misconception had possibly arisen from his wish to save the time of the House, in not going at length into the explanation of his proposal. So far from having for its object the appointment of held officers, who were to have a control over the colonels commandants of the corps, nothing could be more repugnant to his feelings or sentiments. He had, he thought, distinctly stated, that his sole and great object was, to afford the commandants of corps the benefit of the assistance and advice of officers not their superiors; but, from experience, competent to aid them effectually by their instruction; and the more he reflected, the more he was convinced of the advantages that would result from the adoption of his proposal. No commandant could look with confidence
 274 275
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  agreed with his right hon. friend(Mr. Pitt) in the opinion he entertained respecting the efficiency of the volunteer corps. He was also ready to admit, that every possible effort should be made to render them as perfect as possible in discipline. He, however, doubted much whether he proposition of his right hon. friend could be carried into effect to be extent he wished. Adjutants and serjeant-majors, he did not deny, ought to be appointed in every case
 276
 Mr. Pitt  said, he would take an opportunity of bringing forward his proposition on the resolution respecting the volunteers.
 Mr. Pitt  expressed his satisfaction at so large a vote, but desired to be informed what the actual effective force of the country was at present, what its deficiency from the number in the vote, and what mode was proposed for supplying the deficiency?
 Lord Castlereagh  supposed the right hon. gentleman alluded to a statement of his on Friday; he had then stated the effective force of the United Kingdom to be 176,000 men, 80,000 of whom were militia, and of course 96,000 regulars, of whom 26,000 were only for limited service, so that the force for general service was 69,000 rank and file. The most material deficiency, therefore, was in the regulars. There were of the 50,000 of which the army of reserve was to be composed, 14 or 15,000 not yet raised, which arose from the time of the year at which the act passed, in harvest. In Ireland, too, it was later, but the execution of it was proceeding favourably at present, and if the country were to continue its efforts, that deficiency would soon be made up. The crown would have a discretion in promoting the recruiting of the regular army from the army of reserve, by allowing a bounty.
 Mr. Pitt  wished to be informed by what mode the deficiency, below the number voted, which, in his view amounted to about 23,000, was proposed to be raised in a short time. He considered the reserve as regulars, though engaged only for limited service. As drummers and non-commissioned officers were not included, they, he supposed, might be considered equal to 9 or 10,000.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that the deficiency, making allowance for drummers, &c. did not exceed 20,000, which was to be made up by the 15,000 of the army of reserve, not yet raised, and by such modes as should be deemed most likely to promote the general service of recruiting. If the country would put its shoulders to the busi-
 278
 Mr. Pitt  observed here that chearmy of reserve was by the act intended to have been raised in proportion to the population of the several districts, and no substitute was to have been received who should not be of the same, or of an adjacent county. The provisions of the act were violated whenever crimps were employed to procure substitutes, and considerable inconvenience was felt in many places, by adhering to the dispositions of the act.—After a few words from the Secretary at War and Mr. Fuller, the resolution was agreed to.—The several other resolutions were then read and agreed to.—On the question being put on the last resolution relative to the volunteers,
 Mr. Pitt  said, he was sorry to be obliged on this resolution, again to address the House, on the subject of his proposition. The objections of the Right Hon. Sec. seemed to him to be founded on two or three grounds; first, a doubt whether a sufficient number of field officers could be procured; 2dly, an apprehension of creating discontent amongst the officers of the volunteer corps; and 3dly, the injury that the officers thus employed would sustain by being placed on half-pay after the war. The two first appeared inconsistent with each other. The first proceeded on a supposition that 4 or 500 would be necessary, and the second 011 the supposition that the corps would be dissatisfied; but as his proposition extended only to such as should apply, if there should not be many applications the first objection. as to the number would be done away, and if many should apply as he hoped all would, then there, could be no discontent, and the second objection vanished. But he maintained, that a sufficient number could be supplied from the line. Each regiment consisted of 750, had two lieut. colonels, two majors, and ten captains, and the question therefore would be, whether it was more material to the public security that every old regiment should have its number of old captains complete, or every battalion of 1,000 volunteers, have an efficient field officer to prepare them, by discipline, to accomplish the common object of all, the effectual defence and security of their country? But, if the regiments of the line could not afford the numbers necessary, the half-pay officers might be employed, or those who had retired from the service, or from amongst
 279
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  considered the reasons advanced by his right hon. friend, against adopting the proposition to its lull extent satisfactory. He concurred in the principle, but he had doubts of its practicability. The number of volunteers in the united empire was 43,0,000, which, if formed into battalions of 500 each, and from local circumstances a greater number could not be assembled, would require 860 field officers. He admitted that the right hon. gent. (Mr. Pitt), had distinctly stated battalions, not corps, on a former occasion.—The half-pay could not supply any officers, the whole on that establishment having been appointed to the reserve. It would, therefore, be necessary to resort to the regulars. The whole amount of the regiments in the united kingdom was 70; there were 25 or 26 regiments of cavalry; but taking the whole at 700, to supply 860 each battalion should
 280 281
 Mr. Windbam  did not mean to trouble the House at any length, after what he had said on a Conner occasion; but, as many topics were then omitted, and some important suggestions had since been made, he thought it not wholly unnecessary to say a few words.—His right hon. friend under the garner (Mr. Pitt), had explained and enforced with his usual ability, the measure which he had wished to see adopted for the improvement of the volunteer system; observing, with too much truth, that his order respect, were diametrically opposite to the Mr. Windham. He lamented the fact, and not the less sincerely, because it must happen in consequence, that his ideas be diametrically opposite to those to his right hon. friend. It was always painful to him to differ from his right hon. friend, with whom he so generally agreed: and independent of that feeling, there was commonly the further cause of regret, that his opinion, so opposed, had less chance of being received. It was not on that account, however, less necessary, that he should state the grounds, on which his opinion was formed.—His objections certainly did not arise from any general feeling adverse to voluntary service. On the contrary, he had always strongly declared himself in favour of voluntary service, as opposed to that which was compulsory: but voluntary service did not necessarily mean service of volunteer corps, such as they were now constituted. Here and there, perhaps, the cases might concur. One of the corps which he should have looked to, though resembling in some degree those to which he was objecting, was the corps of which his right hon. friend was at the head: and which had contributed, probably not a little, to lead him to the ideas which he now entertained respecting volunteer corps in general. This was a corps, formed in peculiar circumstances, and with peculiar advantages both in respect of its leader, and of the men of whom it was composed, His right hon. friend was not
 282 quorum, six one 283 284 285 Ex quo-vis ligno, &c.; 286 recruiting Pars minima est ipsa puella sui. 287 were 288 289 290 accidence. 291
 Mr. Erskine —I have listened, Sir, to the right hen. gent, under the gallery (Mr. Pitt) with much attention; to most of his sentiments respecting the volunteers with perfect satisfaction, and certainly if ever there was a subject which more than another claims the attentive consideration of Parliament, it is that which now forms the matter in discussion, and which involves the means of providing for the defence of the empire. At the same time, I cannot help observing, that to a mind less enlightened than that of the right hon. gent, on the lower bench (Mr. Windham), it ought to have occurred, that this was a subject which ought to be discussed with moderation and temper; that the House was called upon to deliberate upon measures for the security of the country; and that it was net quite becoming in any member, under such circumstances, to enter into vain and splenetic criticisms on the past. Whatever may have been the imperfections of the volunteers, it cannot be maintained, by any sober thinking mind, that this is a moment at which they ought to be disbanded. Does the right hon. gent, mean to recommend that these valuable troops should be dismissed, and that our defence should be left entirely to the care of the regular army? Is it possible that he can seriously urge any thing so exceptionable, so absurd? and yet, if such are net his views, why persevere in depreciating the volunteers, in endeavouring to make them think little of themselves, and to make the enemy despise them. Whatever the object of the right hon. gent, may be, certain it is, that the tendency of his language is to encourage the attempt of invasion, and to depress the spirit of those who are ready to oppose it. Really it is difficult to understand the views of the right hon. gent. Does he reflect upon the probable consequences of his conduct? or does he mean to utter opinions in that House, in order to encourage others to publish out of
 292
 Mr. Windbam  here called the hon. gent. to order, and told him, that before he ventured to state any thing in that House as a fact applying to any member, he ought to have taken care to ascertain how far it was well founded.
 Mr. Erskine  continued:—I assert, Sir that the sentiments of the right hon. gent, are likely to be productive of great mischief, and hold out an encouragement to the licenser of the press Indeed, from what I have heard of the right hon. gentleman's observations, I apprehend that any man who should dare to print what the right hon. gentleman said, would be guilty of a misdemeanour. I apprehend that the man who would disparage the whole military force of his country, who would consider it as in a state of the greatest danger, and who would maintain that all we have done for our country is only likely to involve us in ruin, and is founded on a system so mistaken in its principles as to lead to destruction rather than to safety—such a man, I say, is a fit object for animadversion and censure. I do not mean to say, that the right hon. gentleman's sentiments in that House are cognizable in a court of law, but that the repetition of such remarks out of doors would be subject to reprehension. The first matter I take into consideration is this:—we are to see what the situation of the country was when war was declared against France. Our military force was not then sufficient to put the country in a state of security; considering the immense armies of France, and the determination of the person at the head of the French government to use means for our destruction which never were carried so nearly into effect as those that now threaten the country. At the time when the war commenced it was necessary, as we could not foresee whether the attempt would be made, that we should receive the voluntary offers of persons coming forward for the general defence. The right hon. gent. says he considers this as an armed democracy. I cannot conceive how it is an armed democracy when it consists of all ranks of men, and some of the greatest and most opulent men in the country, all of whom receive commissions from the crown. When compulsory measures are resorted to, the men may desert; when you take men by force into-the field, you cannot have the same reliance upon them as when their efforts are spontaneous and free. By the present system all the influence of society are bound up toge-
 293 294 295 296
 Mr. Pitt  rose in explanation: he did not mean, he said, that the field officers whom he proposed to add to volunteer corps, should be placed over the commanders, but should be subordinate to them.—As to the circumstance of a commanding officer's applying to his corps for their consent, it never entered into his contemplation. He had heard that night, for the first time, of a committee for the regulation and management of corps, and he had heard it with regret, as he conceived that such corps could never be well disciplined, and could never be made either useful or energetic. With respect to the corps which he had the honour to command, the fact was, that whatever superiority of discipline it had acquired, it went in support of his suggestion, as it was entirely to be attributed to the assistance of regular officers of ability, whose exertions had been unremitting in bringing the corps to that state of discipline.
 Lord Castlcreagh  wished merely to state the fact as to the charge that the present military system destroyed the ordinary recruiting.—Fie ventured, on the general impression he had, to deny the fact. The ordinary recruiting was impaired in some little degree, but it was stated beyond what the fact would wan ant. Seven thousand five hundred men had been received into die line from the Army of Reserve; the ordinary recruiting in the same period had produced 6,791 men. The gross amount of recruits for the line was, therefore 14,291 men. This was enough to remove the impression that the recruiting of the line was confined to the army of reserve. The recruiting, compared with any former period, would be found not deficient. Last year, there was no recruiting for the militia, none for the army of reserve, and all the disbanded men and Scotch fencibles were open,
 299
 The Attorney General  said, he should not make many observations on the speech of the right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham), although he should certainly make some. He did not mean to cast any censure on that right hon. gent., or say thing as if any speech could be intended by him to give any advantage lo the enemy over us.—He was persuaded, that the right hon. gent was one of the last in the House, who weald use any curious expressions in argument for the sake of an advantage or for an apparent advantage in debate. He was persuaded, that the right hon. gent, did not wish to give our enemies any such, or any other advantage what ever; but he had frequently had occasion to feel, that the views which the right hon. gent had of things that came under his consideration, and the consequent manner in which he expressed himself, had, although not so intended by him a tendency to the great disadvantage of the country; for what he thought most useful, what he so thought, or he would not say it, the Attorney-General thought, in many instances, most disadvantageous to the country. If the question, now before the House, was a new question whether we should or should not, adopt a mode of defence by volunteer corps, there were hardly any limits of criticism, to which we should wish to stop the right hon. gent from entering 3 but when the volunteer system had been adopted to such an extent as it hid been, so that it must be in vain for any man to hope, that any observations could induce the House to abandon the system; then it did seem to him to be not a very useful practice to dwell upon the de facts of such a system, but on the contrary, it appeared to him, that some mischief might result such a practice. If the volunteers were not such a force as the House could desire which he did not say was their description, but if, for the sake of argument, they were so allowed to be, could this sort of language respecting them be useful? On the contrary, he would ask, if is was not most
 300 301 302
 The Secretary  at war, said that in answer to a fact, which had been stated by a learned gentleman, that the operation of the army of reserve had injured recruiting for the regular service during the months it operated, he had to state, that upon a comparative view of the months from July to November, the recruiting for the regular army had been greater than in she year 1802, notwithstanding all the advantages of that year by the recruiting service having the monopoly of it then, and also that the two militia and Scotch fencibles had been discharged, and in the present year the army of reserve had so operated.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  said, that all volunteer corps, whose services had been accepted, at whatsoever time, and who conformed to provisions prescribed, were entitled to the exemptions, except those who expressly declared them in their offers.
 Dr. Laurence  said that some misapprehension existed about the exemptions with respect to the volunteers who had not been accepted before the 23d of July. They were told originally they could not have the exemptions, and they gave their services without expecting them. But now, as the exemptions were given to others in their situation, it was fair they should have the option.
 Dr. Laurence  was not satisfied with this comparison, because it did not take exclusively the months of August, Sept. Oct. and Nov. in each of the years compared; because those were the months in which the Army of Reset be Bill was ballotted for, and when of coarse the high bounties for substitutes to serve in it operated.
 Dr. Laurence  supported Mr. Windham's arguments. On the subject of charging sides and doctrines, no person he said, had varied so much as his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Erkine) who spoke now quite in an opposite strain from that which he held in the last war. He condemned the ideas of military obedience which the volunteer corps had formed. Some of them engaged to obey all lawful commands of their officers, reserving of course to themselves the right of judging the legality, than which nothing could be more to reign to the character of a soldier. He did not distrust English valour, but he thought half discipline a dangerous doing. He could not be thoroughly satisfied with a force which required so much to be done to keep it in good humour. All that had been said went to prove, that we should have in the volunteers, good-humoured soldiers, and aimable captains. If the great talents of the right hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Pitt) were not sufficient to make him an officer without experience, what was to be expected from others? The present enormous bounties were a grievous evil; and to this they were to be imputed. The learned doctor concluded with again impressing the arguments of his right hon. friend Mr. Windham.
 Mr. Courtenay  declared that, he never heard such an extravagant speech from the right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham), even when he was a minister, as he had delivered this evening; men seldom improved in extra
 297 298
 Mr. Curwen,  as one who had mistaken the right hon. gent. (Mr. Pitt), declared himself satisfied with his explanation. He thought the appointment of field officers would be too expensive, but was of opinion, that adjutants and Serjeant majors should be appointed to battalions, and that the adjutants should have the rank of captain by brevet.—The Report was then received. On the first resolution, that a force of 129,039 men be granted for guards and garrisons, being read,
 Mr. Baldwin  presented a petition from the prisoners confined for debt in the county gaol of Cardigan. Ordered to lie upon the table.—Mr. Corry brought up an estimate of the expenses attending
 261 d d
 Mr. Windham  denied that he had meant an armed democracy, to the extent alleged,
 303
 The Attorney General  observed, that it there were any case in which the lord lieut. of any county adopted a mode by which some individuals would be released, and the burthen of a ballot would be flung upon others, it was one that was not authorized either by the legislature or the government of the country. Particular cases might admit of some partial modification; but these could only extend to things which were not in themselves of material import. What he understood by persons being duly armed was that their service should have been tendered to and accepted of by government, and that arms should have been delivered to them in consequence. As to the strict meaning of a soldier being duty armed, that was a question more for a soldier than a lawyer to determine. According as he conceived the meaning of the law, it was requisite that, to obtain exemption from the militia service, a man should have been disciplined in the use of arms on rive distinct or separate days at least, and to gain an exclusion from the ballot under the army of reserve act, it was necessary that he should be at least twenty-four days in training to military exercise; that is, that a man should be drilled for such a number of times on so many separate days without specifying any particular number of hours in each day, or supposing by any means that ho was to be kept the entire of each day at exercise. Government, it appeared to him, would have a right to exercise their own discretion as to the number or the particular species of arms which they should issue.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  explained, that, with respect to the issuing of pikes, it had been originally considered as a sort of temporary
 324
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  observed, that it would not be necessary for him to take up the time of the Committee, by going at large into the exposition of the bill before it, which he had fully explained on Saturday. The object he had now in view was merely to explain the points which it had been found necessary to introduce into it, in order to remove some doubts which existed respecting the former acts. Doubts had been entertained respecting the exemptions which volunteers claimed, and in many instances the commandants of corps had omitted, from their not being acquainted with the provisions of former acts, to make the returns before the day specified in those acts, namely, the 21st of September, on or before which the return should have been made to entitle the individual to exemption. There could be no question as to the Reserve, because three periods of the year were specified for making the returns, and if they should not be made before the 21st of September, they might in January. This first clause, therefore, was intended to enable commandants of corps to make returns at any time after the passing of the act, to make returns, and to legalize such as had keen made since the 21st of September, each of which was to exempt the individual from the ballot for the militia, as well as for the reserve. This clause was also to enable commandants of corps to make special returns, where the individuals had conformed to the provisions of the act. It had, in many instances, been found utterly impossible to issue the quantity of arms necessary for the use of the volunteers, and as the terms of the act required that the returns should be made of men fully armed, equipped, and accoutred, the commandants had a difficulty of making the returns where the arms had not been issued. But if the individuals had attended with pikes for the purpose they would, in his opinion, be entitled to be returned as properly armed. In every instance also, where the quantity of arms proposed under the act, to be issued by government, which was one quarter of the number in the inland counties, and one half in the maritime, bad been delivered, be considered the members of the corps as entitled to the return, if they attended the regular number of days at exercise. The second clause, therefore, would authorise the colonels of corps to make such special returns, where the members had attended the full number of days at drill, muster, and exercise, for the purpose of being
 321
 Mr. Pitt  said, as 'far as he could collect the provisions of the bill, it was calculated to attain the desired object. Upon one part of what was stated by the right hon. gent, he could not help animadverting. The right hon. gent, seemed to suppose, that though a corps might be armed with pikes, the commander might have returned them properly armed and equipped; he (Mr. Pitt) thought, on the contrary, that if a corps had been raised, and accepted as a corps of regular infantry, that the only proper arms for such a corps were muskets, and that if they were armed with pikes or pitchforks, or any other weapon, that the commander could not return them as properly armed and equipped. With respect to another point, he could not conceive bow it was possible, that a commander could return his corps as effective where there might be only arms delivered in the proportion of 25 to 100 men, and he had received a letter upon this subject from the Secretary of State, expressly slating, that no corps could be returned as effective, unless the men had had the opportunity of learning the use of arms, which prevented many commanders from returning their corps as effective, where they had
 322
 Mr. Rose  said, he held in his hand a certificate which he had given of the corps which he commanded, stating, that they were perfect in all the manoeuvres of light infantry, and that they had attended muster and exercise three times the number of days required, with what arms they could procure, none having been furnished them by government. This certificate was returned by the lord lieut. as insufficient to enable them to exemption under the act, who referred to a letter from the Sec. of State as his authority. The gentlemen of the county, however, construed the act more liberally, and took care that the corps should be exempted. As to the description of arms which had been alluded to, it would never be said that riflemen were to be armed with pikes.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  observed, that if government thought it necessary to alter the mode of arming the volunteer corps, and to furnish, for instance, the front rank with muskets, and the rear rank with pikes, he could not perceive that there could be any hesitation in the commanders of these corps in returning them properly armed and equipped. As to the case of a fourth part only of the requisite number of arms being furnished to any corps, he conceived that if such corps had the opportunity, in the course of twenty-four days, of learning the use of arms, that they might have been returned as effective. As to the certificate mentioned by the right hon. gent. (Mr. Rose), it was insufficient, because it was not in conformity with the act of Parliament.
 Mr. Pitt  said, he did not wish to prolong the discussion, as the bill went to do away the doubts which had arisen. With respect, however, to what had been said, that any arms might be given to a corps, his objection was, that if a corps of infantry was accepted as such, without any explanation as to the mode of arming, that it must be considered that such a corps was to bearmed in the regular way with muskets, and that it could not be otherwise denominated "properly armed and equipped."
 Mr. Rose  observed, that there were some volunteers who were paid for 85 days, and ethers only for 24; he thought it, therefore, not just that the former should only be required to attend 24 days for the purpose of being exempted. He wished also that something should be done to enforce discipline; he had heard of some irregularities committed, and he thought they ought to be checked.
 Mr. Secretary  Yorke said, that as the law now stood, volunteers were equally exempted in complying with the act by attending twenty-four days. As to enforcing discipline, his majesty had the power of making regulations for that purpose, and it was, perhaps, unnecessary to pass another act upon the subject, as it was highly desirable that too many regulations might not be made. There was a great improvement in the present system over that of last war, as the volunteers were now liable to be called out to meet the enemy, which they then were not.
 Mr. Rose  again contended, that these volunteers, who were paid for 85 days, ought not to be allowed an exemption for attending 24. He was well aware, he said, that his Majesty had the power of making regulations with respect to the discipline of the volunteer corps, but his Majesty had not the power of imposing fines for irregularity of conduct.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  said, that volunteers would only be paid for the number of days they actually attended 5 and as to irregularity, any person misconducting himself might be expelled with disgrace from the corps to which he belonged, in which case he would be entitled to no exemption.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  stated, that orders had been given to provide arms for the volunteer corps, but it was thought necessary to furnish them in the maritime, counties first.
 Mr. Secretary York  said, be could not see the clause now in discussion in the light in which the learned gent viewed it: he did not see how it could be considered as a breach of faith. This was a remedial bill, to exempt volunteer corps from certain hardships to which they were at present exposed tinder the strict letter of the Jaw. It was not intended by it to do any thing unfavourable to the volunteers. This clause was prospective it was not intended to take place until after the 1st day of May next. But with regard to the exemption of volunteers, it was to take place immediately. The other part would in truth be as if Parliament never made any alteration in the law respecting these volunteers, and the learned gent, insisted en it, that Parliament had no right to make any alteration in the law in this respect; that he would never admit. The fact was, that it would be in the power of those volunteers to dissolve, who should not like this new regulation; they might quit the service if they did not approve of it, and did not choose to continue; the only consequence would then be, that they would have no exemption, but would be subject to be ballotted for the militia, or the army of reserve, and the deficiency which might thus be created in the corps must be filled up out of the classes specified in the defence act: but the alteration proposed, he apprehended, would not have the desired effect, for the number of days of attendance being limited to five, was applicable to a time of peace, whereas the measure must now be adapted to a rime of war.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the hon. baronet alluded particularly to the volunteers of the county of Buckingham, who had acted much to their credit, in coming forward as they did without claiming any exemption; but he could not allow of any distinction between the volunteers of this county, either as to those who entered previous to the war or subsequent to the war. Distinctions between men actuated by such noble motives were invidious. It should not be insinuated, that all the volunteers did not enter from one motive—the glorious one of defending their country, and to preserve its honour. He did therefore beg leave to vindicate the volunteers who entered since this war, as well as those who were in that character before it. Their having become volunteers was purely voluntary; they had no conception of what they are now emitted to by the Act of Parliament; it was impossible they should, for the great bulk of them had enteied before that clause in the act had been so much as mentioned, or even hinted at. It was no> motive of commutation of duty OF exemption that induced the volunteers to come forward: no it was a spontaneous burst of genuine zeal in their country's, cause, unmixed with any thing selfish, uncontaminated with any thing impure; it was a glowing spirit of patriotism, that made them rush forward in the service (c)f their country. This was-nothing more than was? due to them from him as a member of administration, and, unless he was much received, would be paid to them by that country which they were enrolled to serve. Having paid this small and well-deserved tribute to the volunteers, he could not help saying he concurred entirely in the sentiments expressed by the learned gent. (Mr. Giles) on the other side of the House. He was confident that no man in the House, or in the country, would be-less disposed to countenance a breach of good faith in any case than his right hon. friend (Mr. Yorke.) The truth was, that in this ease he did not depart from good faith, for although five days were sufficient to entitle? volunteers to exemption from the militia, and 24 from the army of reserve, yet that was the regulation in time of peace, and he proposed that the attendance should be greater now in time of war. It was not proposed, however, that 6be alteration should begin to operate until the month of May
 329
 Mr. Rose  said, that the learned gent. (Mr. Giles) referred in so particular a manner to what he had said, that he was under the necessity of saying a few words in his own vindication. The learned gent, had imputed to him a mischievous speech now, said Mr. Rose, whether my speech or the speech of the learned gent, was most likely to produce mischief, I leave to the Committee to determine; and I trust I may leave that matter safely there. He seemed to insinuate that my speech was against the volunteers. There is not one man in this country more a friend from his heart to the volunteers of it than myself. There is no spot near or in the neighbourhood of my house in which there dwells one man who is not a volunteer. Two corps in my neighbourhood are commanded by relations of my own, and a third corps is raised by myself:—I therefore leave it, on these facts, to the Committee to judge whether I am against the volunteer system. "What I meant was to have them as perfect in their discipline, so as to render them as efficient as possible, not through the medium of a breach of good faith, for that I am as much an enemy to as the learned gent and upon that subject the right hon. gent, has removed every shadow of difficulty, by saying, that if the alteration should take place, such volunteers who disapprove of it shall be at liberty to withdraw. Having quoted the provision of the statute of the last session of Parliament upon this subject, the right hon. gent, concluded with-saying, that both as a member of Parliament, slid as a magistrate and country gent, and in every situation, he had been a friend and zealous supporter of
 330
 The Attorney-General  observed, that so much had been said on the matter of exemption of volunteers, it was needless for him to add any thing, especially as upon that subject there was no difference of opinion. Now, as that was the leading and the only part of this bill that was pressing in point of time, he should submit to his right hon. friend, whether the remaining part of the bill might not as well be deferred until after the recess, to allow gentlemen time to turn it in their minds, and to prepare for its future discussion, for it was not proposed that that part of the bill should begin to operate until the month of May next. If any thing that amounted to a breach of good faith could possibly be proposed, which he was assured there could not, by any member of administration, he was sure the House would never assent to it, but perhaps there was no use in dwelling on this measure further now, if his right hon. friend would adopt his suggestion, in postponing the latter part of the bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in further reply to Sir W. Young, begged leave most completely to differ from the right hon. baronet, as he was thoroughly convinced that the volunteers, instead of taking any advantage of their situation, were, upon all occasions, actuated by the purest and noblest motives of loyalty, patriotism, and public spirit; they were a body of men whose valour and
 331
 Sir W. Wynne  said a few words on the danger of giving the volunteers the option of withdrawing their services.
 Mr. Pattison  said, that in the last war he. had a corps of 150 men. On calling them together in April last, when he got permission to raise a second corps of 350 men, he found that 30 of them had entered into the King's service. Since that, several had gone in the same manner, either into his Majesty's service, or as substitutes into the militia, the supplementary militia, or the army of reserve; and though be might have some regret at losing a good soldier, he never thought himself at liberty to interfere to detain them. This was a proof that the volunteer system, instead of impeding, assisted the recruiting service: so far as to the men, now how was the fact as to the officers? This touched him more nearly, as it affected his own family. His eldest son, who had been one of his officers, had gone into the East Norfolk militia; his second son, whom he was educating with the greatest care, to assist him in his commercial pursuits, had conceived so strong a partiality for a military life, and for the King's service, that he held himself under the necessity of yielding to it. He was one of his ensigns, and had never conceived any notion of a military life, till the corps had been ordered to Yarmouth; and new he had written to him in a most pressing manner to obtain him a commission in the Kind's service, and he would be much obliged to the hon. Secretary if he would procure him one.
 Colonel Cranfurd  said, it was true a private may be turned out of his corps for impertinence to his officers; if he was to be turned out by his officer, the case was clear; but if it were to be done by the Committee, it should be recollected, that the majority of that committee would be privates.
 Mr. Yorke  thought it would be a very difficult matter indeed to define the precise quantum of assistance to be given to the wives and families of such volunteers as were sent on actual service, as that must depend on a variety of circumstances; it must be first ascertained who stood in need of any assistance at all; then, whether those families, who sought assistance, were wholly dependent on the professional exertions or manual labour of those persons sent on actual ser-
 332 ad infinitum,
 Lord Granville Leveson Gower  stated that, in the county of Stafford, three weeks ago, not a single firelock had been received from government for the volunteer corps.
 General Norton  said, it was a fact, that the last Volunteer Act clashed with the army of reserve. If that act had not passed, the 50,000 men would have been long since completed.
 Mr. Giles  disclaimed all idea of imputing to the right hon. gent, any intention of creating mischief by his speech, but he did think that it would have that tendency but for the explanation which followed. He was glad he had started this conversation, because it had produced a declaration that would do away any uneasiness which the volunteers might have felt on the subject of alteration in the terms of their continuance as a body, but now it was openly declared that no alteration could ever take place by the terms on which they entered, without affording them the option to withdraw if they disapproved of such alterations, losing, of course, by so doing, all the exemptions they are now entitled to. Such a declaration was necessary to be made, for it set at rest much uneasiness that might have followed.
 Mr. Giles  said, that the bill now before the Committee went to alter the number of effective men. At present, every man who appeared, properly armed and accoutred, five days, was entitled to exemption from the militia; and if he appeared for 24 days, properly armed and accoutred, he was en-
 326 327
 Dr. Laurence  contended, that there was no analogy in the case cited by the hon. gent. As to pikes, they could not, he said, be considered as proper arms in the cases mentioned.—Upon that part of the bill which related to the number of days of attendance,
 Dr. Laurence  stated that he differed materially from the right hon. and learned gent. who spoke last but one (the Attorney General), and that that rt. hon. gent, also differed materially from himself on a former occasion, when stating his opinion on the subject which was now under discussion. Pikes were said to have been originally brought into use only as a temporary sort of armament, till others were procured j therefore any deviation from that must be irregular. As to the other case, namely, where 25 stand of arms only were issued for 100 men, the commandant would then by law, that is, if he acted according to the strict construction of the act, be under the necessity of giving a certificate of service to every individual according as each completed the number of drill days which was required before he could obtain an exemption. From the hurry with which acts of Parliament were frequently drawn up, inaccuracies must unavoidably occur sometimes in the manner in which they were framed; but it would be a dangerous principle to admit that, on account of the necessity which existed for their alteration, the laws could be dispensed with on any account whatever; and in each of the cases to which he had alluded the law should have been more strictly adhered to.
 Mr. Tierney  thought a distinction ought to be taken upon the subject of arms. When corps made their offers of service, they generally stated what they would provide themselves, and what they expected government to furnish. A corps that he was connected with had stated that they would provide themselves with clothing and other articles, and that they expected government to furnish arms and ammunition. By arms was certainly meant muskets, but if government thought proper to send arms of a different description, for instance, pikes, he should conceive that such a corps would be properly armed. As to the case of only a certain proportion of arms being furnished to a corps, he apprehended that supposing only 25 muskets to be furnished to l00 men, each man
 325
 Sir Francis Burdett  moved the second reading of the Pancras Vestry and Overseers' Bill; which was read a second time, and referred to a Select Committee.—Mr. Byng brought up a petition from certain inhabitants of the parish of Pancras against the bill; which was referred to the Committee on the bill, and the petitioners ordered to be heard by themselves, their council or agents, against the bill, &c.—Lord Henry Petty moved that the report of the Committee on the petition of the Sierra Leona company of the year 18or,be referred to the Committee appointed to consider their petition presented in the present session. Ordered.—Mr. Hobhouse brought up the Mutiny Bill; which was read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time tomorrow.—Mr. Johnson presented at the bar, from the office of the chief Secretary for Ireland, an account of the amount of Bank of Ireland notes in circulation at the different periods mentioned in the order of the House. Ordered to be on the table, and to be printed.—Mr. Hobhouse brought up the report of the Committee of supply or yesterday. The resolutions were severally agreed to.—A message from the Lords informed the House, that their lordships had agreed to the following bills without any amendment, viz. the Malt Tax, the 5,000,000 Exchequer Bills, the Pension Duty, the Qualification Indemnity, the Irish Promissory Note, the East-India Bonds, the Irish Sugar Drawback, and the Seamens' Desertion Bills.—Admiral Berkeley brought up a petition from the debtors confined in Gloucester Castle. Ordered to lie on the table; as was also a petition from the debtors in the King's-Bench,—Sir William Elford gave notice, that, after the recess, he should bring forward a motion, to institute an inquiry into the cause of the dismissal of a very respectable individual from office, by the commissioners of naval inquiry.—Mr. Secretary Yorke brought up an account of the numbers of the volunteer corps, on the establishment, in Ireland, and of the number of corps that had been accepted by his Majesty. Ordered to lie on the table, and to be printed.
 Sir William Young  thought that some distinction ought to be made with respect to
 323
 Sir William Young  considered the volunteers as divided into two classes. Those? which came under the regulations of the 42d of the King, and those under the act of the 43d of the King. The first he considered as volunteers superior, in consideration of their offers, to the second; for the first came forward without any view, expectation, hope, or idea of any exemption whatever. The second, although he did not mean to dispute their spirit, zeal, or patriotism, yet they came forward-volunteers under the idea of a commutation of duty—to be exempt from other military duties that would have been imposed upon them by law, the Army of
 328
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  thought it right, before gentlemen separated for the recess, to put the House in possession of an accurate return of the; Army of Reserve, the number raised, the number rejected, those that had deserted, those that died, those that were effective, and those deficient.—In making this statement there would be room to admire the exertions the counties had made, though of late those exertions had rather fallen off. The exertion was at first so great, that within six weeks no less a number than 26,740 men were raised. The total number raised on the 21st Nov. the latest day to which the returns were made up, was 26,607 in England and Wales. Of these 642 had been rejected, 70 were dead, 777 had deserted, 25,500 were effective, and a deficiency of 8,000 still remained to be made up by England and Wales. In Scotland the number raised was 5,500. In Ireland it was upwards of 6,000. Still a considerable deficiency remained; yet putting it out of the question, whether this was the best mode of raising a defensive force, it must be allowed that it had supplied in a very short time a great number of men. This return, therefore, was thought useful, in order to stimulate the counties to complete their numbers; and he should move, that by the time the House should meet again, another return should be made, by which it would be seen in what proportion the quotas of the different counties were complete or imperfect. He concluded with moving, that there be laid before the House an account of the number of men raised for
 334
 Mr. Alderman Pries,  in order to set the
 341
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  had not inquired into the reason of the omission alluded to by the worthy alderman; but he supposed it was because the corps mentioned by him were not understood to be of the description to which the return was to apply. Probably they were understood to belong to the Admiralty.
 Colonel Craufurd  complained that his right hon. friend below (Mr. Windham) had been grossly misrepresented. He did not think that 4OO,000 men could be of no advantage to the country. On the contrary both he and his honourable friend gave the volunteers the highest credit? they only complained of the manner in which they were constituted, and that they had a tendency to starve the regular forces. He expressed his regret that any exemptions had ever been granted. He believed it had been by accidence. It was doubtful whether it was intended, even by ministers themselves, to give these exemptions: for, so late as the 23d of Sept. they had consulted his Majesty's Attorney-General whether they were to be given. If he had himself understood that they were to be given, he would have came down prepared to oppose them. As to the volunteers in general, he was of
 342 343
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  suggested to the hon. baronet (Sir W. Young) who spoke last but one, to read and consider the act of the 42 d
 Mr Secretary Yorke  stated, that there was a deficiency in the city quota, as well as in that of Middlesex; but that such deficiencies arose, not from the tardiness of those with whom the duty of providing the men rested, but from the frequency of desertion, which took place to a greater extent in this city than in any other district; and this be conceived it impossible to prevent. It arose from the nature of our police, any change in which, however, he could never persuade himself to propose or to meditate.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  began by saying, that the learned member had concluded with a very heavy charge, indeed upon his Majesty's ministers, namely, that they had deserted their duties and had given encouragement to a spirit of culumny; but, to whom the charge of dealing in groundless slander and detraction most properly applied, he would leave it to the House and the public to judge. of the duty of a member of Parliament be was fully aware; and no man re peeled that duty more than he did. He. knew that, consistently with that duty, every member of that House was bound to examine, and entitled to state fully, his opinion upon every public measure. He should be sorry to see that disposition damped by any fear of animadversion, or that the exercise of such an important right should become the subject of calumny. He admitted fully that a statesman should prefer the interests of the people to every other consideration, and that unpopularity should not restrain him from pursuing the course of measures which his judgment prescribed, For popularity, properly understood, he professed the highest respect, and should always feel a proper sollicitude; but, that ministers had ever betrayed any idle, vain wish for popularity in the system they had acted upon, as had been insinuated, he most pointedly denied. To what part of their conduct could the charge of endeavouring to court the people, be applied? Was it to be detected in their financial arrangements? Wash in the quantity of taxes they had imposed en the country? It would be recollected, on this point, that immediately after the conclusion of the last peace, an addition was made to that public taxes, which was equal to half the amount of the whole interest on the national debt, previous to the war which that peace terminated, and at the commencement of the present war, a further addition was made of twelve millions. From this it appeared that no less than millions were added to the taxation of the country within the short space of 14 months. That is, not less than seven millions more than the whole interest of the national debt previous to the commencement of the last war. The financial proceedings, therefore, of ministers could not be said to manifest any very strong disposition to conciliate popular favour; and could that disposition be
 351 352 353
 Mr. Giles  argued, that from the reading of the Volunteer Act, the distinction taken by the hon. baronet (Sir W. Young) was
 347
 Mr. Giles  wished to know, whether the proportion of the army of reserve, which London was to furnish, was yet complete?
 Dr. Laurence  rose, and, in a speech of considerable length, took a general view, as well of the volunteer system, as of the conduct of his Majesty's ministers, in adopting that system, going over nearly the same ground which had been traced, both on this and on former nights, by Mr. "Windham, and by the learned doctor himself. It. had been the fashion, he said, for his Majesty's ministers and their supporters, to endeavour to calumniate, and run down the characters of those men who have the honesty and the boldness to deliver their candid sentiments in that House, in opposition to the measures of ministers, which, they conceived to be impolitic; regardless of that temporary popularity which ministers were so anxious to obtain from gratifying the whim of the moment without looking to future results. Of this illiberal disposition too many instances had been given with respect to the conduct of his right hon. friend (Mr. Windham), the purity of whose motives no man could question, and the ability of whose; mind even his adversaries were forced to; acknowledge; but yet he was the subject of much undeserved censure, and extremely culpable misrepresentation. The latter, some persons out of doors seemed encouraged to promote; and the effect of that
 348 349 350
 Mr. Hiley Addington. —sir the right hon. gent who just sat down seems very desirous of having the last word on the subject new
 339 l 340
 Colonel Calcraft,  in answer to what had fallen from the worthy Alderman (Price), thought that the facility of recruiting in provincial districts, as compared with the difficulty staled to exist in London, did not arise from the cause stated by (he worthy alderman, namely, the giving of higher bounties in the former than in the latter, but from the circumstance of a vast number or working artisans being dismissed from their employment at. Birmingham, Sheffield, Manchester, and various other manufacturing towns, as the returns from those towns would prove. These men, when they were unemployed, and saw no chance of being reinstated, immediately formed the idea of enlisting in the line or militia; and instead of going from town to town to look for higher bounties, repaired to the next town where they could be received; and this would account for the difference of facility in raising recruits in the country. With respect to the volunteers themselves, as lie had not had an opportunity of speaking his sentiments, he wished to say a few words. It had been pretty much the fashion to charge a right hon. gent, near him (Mr. Windham) with disparaging those corps, as utterly useless and unfit for service. He, for one, never conceived the arguments of that right hen. gent, in that view, but merely as meaning that his Majesty's ministers did not use the military population of the country in the way which he thought most efficient. For his own part, however, he felt no disposition to undervalue the services of the volunteers; on the contrary, he thought they would be rendered highly serviceable and efficient for the defence of the country. As to discipline, however, as compared with troops of the line, or established militia, that was out of the question. The nature of the service, and the opportunities that had occurred for training the volunteers, admitted of no comparison with the other troops, In aid of those troops, however, he thought they would form an important branch of the pub-
 346
 Mr. Windham,  in explanation, observed, that he had never said that 400,000 men in arms would be of no use.
 Mr. Windham  denied that he ever meant to disparage the volunteers; and said that his remarks upon the reduction of the army previous to the commencement of the war, referred to the disbanding of the foreign corps in our service, which was a proceeding that he would ever condemn.—After a few other remarks from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the bill was read a third time and passed.
 Mr. Windham  said, he was much grieved, that by not being present in the House the night before, he had lost the opportunity of offering some suggestions, which would, he conceived, materially have improved the bill. He did not expect that the Report would have been brought up before this day, and as it was competent to offer any improvements that occurred, upon the report, he had been, less anxious to attend in his place yesterday. It was true, that Reports were, in cases of urgency, immediately received: but this was not a case of urgency; and the present ministers ought to have known more than any other men the propriety of leaving every measure before the House for as long a time as possible. The very bill which they now pressed forward so unnecessarily, arose from, that hasty spirit of legislation which left in every act doubts and ambiguities requiring further acts to remove them. The hon. gentlemen seemed particularly prone to this course of proceeding. They were fond of driving to an inch, of running every thing to the last moment. The consequence was, as it necessarily must be, that being obliged to act in a hurry, whatever they did was crude, ill considered, and full of mistakes. There were two modes, Dr. Johnson had observed, of composition; one in which the several parts received from the writer, before they issued from his mind, all the perfection which he hoped to give to them; the other, in which they were committed to paper in the first instance to be improved by subsequent correction. The hon. gentlemen, by the circumstances in which they placed themselves so constantly, seemed to prefer the latter of these modes. They threw down their first loose thoughts in an act of Parliament, trusting to future consideration and experience to bring them to something of a better shape. An act of Parliament wa3 their foul copy, in which it did not signify how many faults there were, as the Legislature would be able afterwards to set them right. Their preference to this mode was founded, he supposed, upon the observation of the poet, that poets
 Lost half the praise they should have got, Were it but known, what they discreetly blot. 335 336 per 337 per nothing of de minimis non curat lex. 338 stimulus
 Sir William Young  said, that his meaning was misconceived by the hon. member who spoke last.
 Sir William Young  stated, that he was particularly anxious, as this would most likely be the last time he should have an opportunity, of declaring that there were two descriptions of volunteers, and that the exemptions adopted in regard to those two descriptions ought to be extremely different. This was a point, he thought, essential to the interest of the country. A strong line of demarcation ought to be made. He had looked into the acts of Parliament on the subject of the volunteer exemptions, and he found that he was borne out in what he then asserted, that the volunteers under the 42d of the King, were of a different class in the eye of the legislature from the present volunteers, who bad no regulation but that of the 43d of the King. The latter were a very large body of men, by whose exemption the great mass of the population of the country was greatly affected; they impeded very much indeed the progress of the army of reserve, for three-fourths of them were of the first class of the Defence Act, unmarried mm under the age of thirty: this was a serious matter: they ought not to have these exemptions, for it was greatly inconvenient to the country. As to the volunteers under the 42d of the King, who were the only tree volunteers, in the proper
 344 345
 Mr. Carry  said, he rose for the purpose of giving a notice relative to the Ways and Means of Ireland. It was not usual to go into the Ways and Means of Ireland, previous to the Christmas recess, he therefore now only wished to give notice of his intention upon that subject, and the rather, because the military duties of many of the Irish members rendered it impossible for them at present to attend their duty in Parliament. The notice he now gave, related to the consolidation of the subsisting import duties, and some of the inland duties in Ireland. A schedule of those duties had been laid before Parliament last session, and was agreed to, but certain considerations, particularly a wish to give the fullest possible time to merchants for the investigation of the subject, induced the postponement of further proceedings upon it. A similar schedule would be laid before Parliament after the recess. He hoped the House would excuse him for being thus special in his notice, because he was anxious that it should be well understood in Ireland, particularly by the merchants. The duties referred to, were principally upon foreign articles, either imported directly into Ireland, or through Great-Britain; but in consequence of the stipulations in the Act of Onion, nor upon any articles, the produce of Great-Britain. The duties now payable on foreign articles were principally those under the 40th Geo. III. cap. 4, the 41st Geo. III. cap. 33, which had since been continued, and the 42d Geo. III. cap. 117. But the consolidation was not to be made strictly and precisely upon the duties as they now stood, because in all cases where there
 369 ad valorem, ad valorem
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  said, that on the reading of the bill and the amendment, it would strike any one that this amendment was necessary; for the bill, as it went from the House up to the other House of Parliament, exempted persons accepted and enrolled as volunteers from serving in the militia, but had no provision on being ballotted to serve in the militia before they became volunteers, and this amendment was therefore necessary, in order that persons who had been ballotted for the militia, should be obliged to do so, if they should happen to quit their volunteer corps; that they should claim no exemption, on account of having been volunteers, but that such exemptions should continue only while they remained volunteers, for which reason he trusted the House would have no objection to the amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that all those, gentlemen who had heard the amendment and attended to the bill, who thought that it only went to supply the defect of that bill as it went from that House, would agree to the amendment. But if any gentlemen in the House would have the goodness to attend to the amendment while it was read from the chair, and then would declare, as a member of that House, that he did no: understand the amendment perfectly, net only would it be matter of jus-
 372
 Lord Folkestone  obsersed, that several gentlemen who, he believed, intended to be present at the discussion of these amendments, had gone away under an impression that these amendments were not to be proposed to be agreed to until to-morrow. His lordship said, he understood it to be the general practice of that House not to take amendments made by the lords into consideration until the next day after they were brought down.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  desired the Speaker to read, first the bill as it went up to the House of Lords, and then the amendment made by their lordships, which being done.
 The Chancellor  of the Exchequer said, that the substantial amendment now before the House was only to carry into effect the manifest intention of the House, but which intention had been imperfectly expressed. Here he went over the clause again, and observed, that the bill as it originally stood, only affected volunteers who should be ballotted, &c. but did not provide for the case of those who ought have been balotted and exempted on account of being volunteers, but who ought not to have such exemptions longer than they should serve as volunteers.
 Mr. Windbam  said, that the importance of the subject was unquestionable. The propriety of adjourning the discussion of it was to him obvious. He professed himself incapable of understanding this amendment on the sudden, at least of being sure he understood it. Gentlemen had gone away under the idea that in was not to be discussed to-night, and he thought it was little more than matter of course to defer it until to-morrow. He was really ignorant of the possible effect of certain words being introduced into a bill like this, and his ignorance strengthened his argument in this case, for it was impossible without time to remove
 373
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that by the word substantial amendment, he did not mean that which the right hon gent. who spoke last, might suppose; he meant it only by way of distinction from those amendments which were merely verbal.
 Mr. Secretary Yorke  said, that if he thought there was any amendment which required much consideration, lie should wish it to be deferred, to give every gentleman who wished it, an opportunity of delivering his sentiments upon u, but there really was nothing of that kind. It certainly was not difficult to understand the first amendment, as he had already stated it; and, as to all the rest, they were merely verbal. With regard to the idea of the amendments being material, and of its hiving so gene forth to the public, that was one of the inconveniences which resulted from permitting the publication of the proceedings of Parliament; under which, some persons had the audacity, in direct defiance of the standing orders of the. House, not only to misrepresent the proceedings of the two Houses of Parliament, but sometime actually to invent matter, which created great confusion in the public mind. A clause was proposed by a noble lord in the other House of Parliament, by way of amendment to the bill, which amendment was now before the House, and which went only to make up for an oversight of the House of Commons, by which it was provided, that if any volunteer should quit his corps, he should no longer be allowed to avail himself of the exemptions to which volunteers were entitled; that was all—a thing too plain for discussion.
 The Speaker  took leave to observe, that although sometimes amendments made by the lords were taken into consideration on a subsequent day, yet it was extremely frequent for the House to agree to amendments made by the lords on the same day they were brought down. One of the amendments had been already explained: as to the rest, they were merely verbal. It was for die House to say whether it would consider them now, or defer them to a future day.
 The Speaker  observed, upon the point of order, that the usual course was to read ail the amendments over once, before any discussion took place upon them, and that the season for observation was, regularly speaking, on the question of second reading, or of agreeing to the amendments. This was the more necessary to be observed, because by it the House could see the bearing of the amendments altogether, before it entertained any discussion upon them.—The amendments were then read; they were all verbat except the first, or which the substance is already stated.—On the question for the second reading,
 Mr. Giles  said, he considered the bill as new amended by the lords, to be precisely what the House intended it to be when they passed it, but from an oversight had omitted to express with precision, for which reason he supported the amendment, and saw no reason for delaying the consideration of it.
 Mr. Calcraft  adhered to his former opinion upon this subject, on account of gentlemen having left the House under an idea I that the subject was not to be discussed tonight. As to the amendment being only what the House intended to have expressed, he did not think, it much to the credit of the House, to have sent into the other House a bill which did not express what was meant by its authors—an additional reason for not being so hasty a second time. He alleged that the House would have done more wisely by printing the bill, and giving more time for its discussion than it had done. The lords had ordered it to be printed, and wisely so, for such measures should have as ample a discussion as possible. In one word, unless some better reason than any he had yet heard, was given for agreeing to these amendments to-night, he should think it his duty to object to that course.
 Mr. Calcraft  professed to have no wish to procrastinate this business, but he could not help thinking it was quite necessary that this amendment should be inquired into, which could not be done unless it was postponed until to-morrow at least. he was satisfied that a much more respectable attendance in point of numbers, would have taken place in the House if it had been thought that these amendments were to have been proposed to be agreed to to-night. He knew of no reason why the House might not take this matter into consideration to-morrow. He was quite sure none had been alleged.
 Mr. Windham  took an objection to the House, at present, in this matter. He said it was usual to adjoin n the consideration of all amendments made by the Lords, in any bill sent to them from the House, in order to give the members time to understand it. He did not profess to understand this amendment, thus brought down and read upon the sudden. He saw no harm in postponing the consideration of it for twenty-lour hours. He said, that an idea had gone abroad, whether true or not, he did not pretend to say, that the amendments made by the Lord's in this bill, were such as the House had not been accustomed to receive and acquiesce in. He dared to say, that was not likely to be the case upon such an occasion as this, but that was a point, however well assured, it was imposable for the House to know; for which reason, he thought this subject ought 10 stand over until to-morrow: this he pressed the: more particularly, as many gentlemen had gone away under an idea that this bill would not have been brought from the House of Lords tonight; and that if these amendments were now agreed to, these gen-
 371
