 adverting to a subject which he touched on last Session of Parliament, wished to know in what manner certain annuities granted in the reign of Queen Anne, amounting to upwards of 46,000l. arising from a capital of 877,000l. which had fallen in during the present year, and a. sum of about a million of capital which would fall in, in the course of next year, were to be applied.The Earl of Suffolk,
 confessed himself satisfied on this head, but said there was another point of great importance, to which he wished to call the attention of the House. The subject lie alluded to was the volunteers. He should now merely touch on the point, as the decision of the court of King's-Bench of yesterday, had rendered it unnecessary for him to take the ground, which, in the event of a contrary judgment, he should have found himself called on to occupy. He felt no hesitation in giving it as his opinion, that, in the event of a contrary decision, every volunteer in the kingdom would have retired in disgust. He intended, in that event, to have submitted a motion to the consideration of the House, which he should now read. As his lordship was proceeding to read the motion, he was I called to order byThe Earl of Suffolk
 who objected to any motion being read which was not properly before the House.Lord Walsingbam,
 asserted his right to make any motion which he might think consistent with the discharge of his duty.The Earl of Suffolk
 also spoke to order. The noble earl, as he understood him, had I only stated, that if an event had not taken place, he intended to have submitted his motion to the House. In this view of the case, Lord Walsingham was correct in objecting to its being read. If, however, it was the noble earl's intention to submit it to the House, he was clearly intitled so to do.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that it surely was his intention to submit his motion to the consideration of their Lordships, though, on account of the decision to which he had alluded, he should abstain from the remarks he must otherwise have made. He concluded, by moving, that a committee of naval and military officers, Members of this House, be appointed to advise with government respecting the volunteers, and to recommend such measures as they may think advisable for rendering them most serviceable and efficient.The Earl of Suffolk
 said, that it consisted with his knowledge, that in the corps with which he was connected, had it not been for the decision to which he bad alluded, every man in the corps, both officer and private, would have thrown down their arms. It was the duty of government to conciliate the volunteers, not to disgust them. Had the measure which he now proposed been at mice adopted, the explanatory bill, alluded to by the noble lord, would have been rendered unnecessary.—He had not proposed a general council of military officers, but one composed of members of that House, who might have been called together without inconvenience. It had been said, that great military characters had been consulted. He could however say, that many of the first military characters in the country, with whom he was acquainted, had not been consulted of the subject.—The motion was put and negatived without a division.The Earl of Suffolk
422 could not think the motion of the noble earl exactly well timed. He could not be ignorant that the servants of government had pledged themselves immediately to bring the question of the volunteer system before Parliament. Whatever, therefore, the noble earl had to propose on that subject, he would then have an opportunity of bringing forward. As all questions, however, of this nature were supposed to originate in his Majesty's mi-
422Lord Hawkesbury
 said, that in the annual accounts laid before the House the sums alluded to by the noble earl would undoubtedly be accounted for, and the mode of their appropriation pointed out.Lord Hawkesbury
 quitted the woolsack, and made several observations upon the peculiar nature of such Bills as that before the House, and the usage of their lordships' proceedings, accompanied with a few remarks upon the special case. In the course of these observations, the noble and learned lord suggested the propriety of the introduction of a clause into the Bill, for reserving the rights of the last remainder man until the period when he shall be capable of giving his consent.The Lord Chancellor
 made a few observations upon the case, and announced his entire concurrence with what fell from the noble and learned lord. He took occasion to applaud the care and attention which had been usually paid by noble lords who had sat upon the woolsack to such proceedings as that in question.—The Bill was then read a second time; and on the motion of Lord Walsingham, committed for to-morrow fort night. Some routine business was then disposed of, and their lordships adjourned till to-morrow.Lord Alvanley
 rose to call the attention of the House to a circumstance which he deemed of great importance, and well worthy the notice of Parliament. Pie alluded to the practice which prevailed of paying certain officers under the government of Ireland their salaries at par in this part of he United Kingdom; of this he spoke in terms of disapprobation, principally as an application of a part of the revenues of Ireland, without the sanction or concurrence of Parliament. He adverted to the very unfavourable state of the exchange against Ireland, which was an additional reason for the proceeding in question being a proper subject of*investigation. He also alluded to the bill for continuing the restriction upon the Bank of Ireland then before the other House of Parliament, and intimated, that as he felt it his duty to call the attention of their lordships to that subject, he expressed his hope that it would not be hurried in its progress through that House. The noble lord concluded by moving, That an account be laid before the House of all persons and salaries chargeable on the revenues of Ireland, and paid at par in this country.Lord King
 shortly expressed his difference in opinion from the noble lord on the subject, and stated, that when the account moved for should come before the House, he had no doubt of being able satisfactorily to justify the proceeding in question to their lordships.The Earl of Limerick
 took the opportunity to express his surprise, that accounts, which be had moved for so long since as two years, should not be yet laid before the House. He alluded to the accounts of the proceeds of old naval stores, the amount of which, in all probability, was very considerable, and the disposition thereof, he contended it was proper it should be known to Parliament.The Earl of Suffolk
569 shortly explained, and observed, that there was another noble Secretary of Stale present with respect
569The Earl of Suffolk
 observed, that the topic alluded to, had been rather inopportunely mentioned, as the question regularly before the House related to certain salaries and pensions chargeable on the revenues of Ireland; this their lordships must all see, had nothing to do the the proceeds of old naval store. However, with respect to the desired explanation, he had to remark, is, that the accounts in question had no connexion with his department, and 2dly, that if the application had been made directly to himself, he could only say, that he should cause inquiries to be made on the subject.—The question upon Lord King's motion was then put, and it was ordered accordingly.—The various bills before the House were then forwarded in their respective stages, after which their lordships adjourned till to-morrow.Lord Hobart
 expressed his readiness to afford every practicable explanation on the topic; touched upon by the noble earl, but he was then uninformed upon the subject; not having had the honour of a seat in that House at the remote period mentioned, he could not tell what steps had been taken in consequence of the noble earl's motion,Lord Hawkesbury
635 rose, not, he said, for the purpose of opposing the motion of the noble Sec. of State, for he had no objection to deferring the discussion of the measure till that day: but he was induced, from the consideration of such a bill being before the House, and more especially by the circumstance of a bill of still greater importance being in its progress through the other House of Parliament, to require some information from ministers, relative to a subject of the greatest importance to that House and to the country. He alluded to the present state of the Sovereign's health; and he expressed his hope that in the present instance, the noble Sec. of State would be able to afford that consolatory information which was lately given in (he other House of Parliament, by a person high in his Majesty's councils: what he meant was, the declaration, that no necessary suspension of the royal functions
635Lord King
638 still expressed himself not altogether satisfied with regard to the answer given to his question. There was one circumstance, about which nothing had been said by the noble Sec. of State, that weighed considerably in his mind, which was this, that his Majesty was attended by a fifth physician, whose name did not appear on the face of the papers that were circulated relative to the indisposition of his Majesty, and his progress towards convalescence, it was certainly very material that the opinion of that filth person thought be procured and stated to the public along with that of the other four. What the noble Sec. had stated with respect to the question was probably founded on the authority of these four physicians; but the account could not be altogether satisfactory, unless the opinion of the
638Lord King
 said, that he thought there was no occasion for any further question on this subject. He stated the favourable account of his Majesty's health, upon what he considered as sufficient authority, and that was all that the House ought to require at present.Lord Kawkesbury
 rose to request a more explicit answer to the question of his noble friend. It was of the highest importance that the nation should be satisfied that there was no misapprehension on this subject. The opinion of a fifth physician, who was in attendance upon his Majesty, afforded room for conjecture that medical men were not agreed in their sentiments respecting his Majesty's indisposition; this was a circumstance of the last importance, and certainly ought not to be with-held from the legislature and the public. To remove the apprehensions on this head, to satisfy the legislature that it was not proceeding with the business of the nation when there was no executive government, to satisfy the nation there was no intention to mislead them; he wished that some explicit answer should be given with respect to this point. He would therefore, request, that before the question was put, some of his Majesty's ministers would be so candid as to satisfy the House.Lord Carlisle
639 followed on the same side. He urged the point that an explicit answer should be given to the question of the noble lord near him. He really wished, that the mystery which appeared to him to hang over the circumstance of a fifth physician attending his Majesty, whose name did not appear in the Bulletin, should be satisfactorily cleared up. If the opinion of that gent, was as favourable as that of the other physicians, why should it be with-held from the public? If it was not, the public had still a right to know what it was; it was a most flagrant breach of public duty in the ministers, if, from motives of false delicacy, or
639Lord Fitzwilliam
640 then rose. He had been personally alluded to, he observed, by the noble lord who had begun this discussion. He would assure the noble lord, that he was fully sensible of the responsibility that attached to himself in particular. He had considered, and that deeply, the duty which was incumbent upon him at this trying crisis. He was aware, that while he was, on the one hand, constantly to keep in view what was due from him, in point of delicacy to his Sovereign, he ought, on the other, never to forget that he had a duty to perform to the legislature and the public. He had settled in his own mind what line of conduct he was to pursue on this occasion, and kept that line exactly, which, in his own idea, appeared to be his duty. What the ideas of others might be on the same subject was another question. But lie was anxious that there should be no misapprehension, and therefore, declared that the noble Sec. of State had correctly stated the convalesence of his Majesty. Delicate as this subject was, he would certainly not have mentioned this much, if he had not been compelled to it. But, as he had been compelled to it, he would state, that at this mo-
640The Lord Chancellor
 said, he had heard of the delicacy of entering into any investigation on such a subject. Was this, however, a time to talk of delicacy, when, besides the alarm arising from the danger which menaced us I from without, every person was struck I with terror, least a suspension had taken place of the functions of the executive government? He, for one, did not understand such ideas of delicacy. If the Sovereign himself could be consulted, he would think it a mistaken delicacy indeed, by which the country was to be left, even for a moment, without a superintending hand. Such a delicacy would be equally false to his Majesty and to his successors, as it would be false to the people. It was of the last importance to take care that no minister should presume, even for a moment, to exercise the functions of royalty. Every step taken at such a period was an usurpation. Two bills of importance were at present before Parliament, into which he apprehended it would be impossible to enter without some evidence to satisfy Parliament on this head. He would ask his Majesty's ministers, whether they themselves had any knowledge, as to the actual state of his Majesty's health? Whether they were in the daily habit of receiving marks of his personal confidence, and whether they had the usual access to his person? If these questions could not be answered in the affirmative, he must regard them merely as private individuals, no longer exercising an official situation. It was not enough that they should once have possessed his Majesty's confidence, if they were not at this moment in the enjoyment of it. On a former occasion, when a suspension of the exercise of the kingly functions was apprehended, physicians were examined before that House on the subject, and they were called on to act by similar evidence when any, the smallest interruption of the exercise of the royal functions took place. He had heard a great deal about responsibility. He knew of no such term. The national security was what they were now called on to guard, nor were they warranted to entrust so sacred a pledge to the responsibility of any individual, or of any set of men, however respectable they might be. A parish minister, or any subordinate character, by taking on himself the weight of state affairs, would unquestionably increase his own responsibility, but would the public security be increased in an equal degree?—The question was again about to be put, when.Lord Carnarvon
642 said, that from that
642The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the words of the noble lord on the woolsack, so far from proving satisfactory to him, convinced him of the necessity of some farther conversation on the subject, before the second reading of the bill an Monday.Lord Granville
 called the attention of the House to a subject on which he had on former occasions given notice on his intention to bring forward a motion. He alluded to the enormous paper circulation of the country: on this important topic he should probably take the opportunity which the second reading of the Bank of Ireland bill would afford, to deliver his sentiments. After expatiating generally; upon the subject, as connected with the general defence of the country, and in other points of view, he observed, it was unnecessary to point out the propriety of having every practical information upon the subject. In that view, he should now move for the production of an Account of all cash, bank: and private paper, received in their official capacities, by the receivers general of the land-tax for the year ending the 5th of Jan. 1804. His lordship then moved accordingly, and that the quantities of cash, batik and private paper, should be distinctly set forth, as well as the quantity received within certain given periods in the course of the year.Lord Grenvilie
 supported the motion, and strenuously followed the line of observation taken by Lord Grenville.Lord Carnarvon
d defended his noble colleague and friend, and seemed to conceive the argument would end, upon his observing, that it was impossible to produce, the accounts before the 2dLord Hobart
 professed some doubt, whether the accounts would, if produced, ascertain the facts required. The great mischief of private paper arose, in his opinion, from the pernicious practice of fictitious credit, and accommodation bills. The practice in this case was for a set of gentlemen; o distribute themselves in different parts of the country: they then connected themselves with a corresponding set of acquaintances in London, and commenced undertakings, by drawing bills on each other. The evils of this practice were great, and never should have been permitted to exist. As it was established, he was aware it could not be abolished without serious evil, but he thought it the duty of the legislature to inquire, whether the evil of its removal was not preferable to the evil of its existence? It was surely too much to permit the circulation of bills drawn for value received, en persons who had no effects. As to the immediate subject, he doubted, whether, should the bill continue six. weeks, it would be time enough to procure the returns from the receivers general. He also conceived it would not be in their power to make them our. All they received was put indiscriminately into a common mass, and was sent to London through the medium of private bids; he, therefore, could not see what purpose the motion could possibly answer.The Lard Chancellor
 said, on inquiry, he understood the bill did expire the 26th inst. as he first mentioned, and did not subsist six weeks longer.Lord Hobart
 said, he rather believed that was the case, as months in acts of Parliament were reckoned by lunar, and not calendar months, which made the difference.—The question was then put, and negatived without a division.—Adjourned.The Lord Chancellor
646 thought the observations made by his noble friend (Lord Grenville) were not sufficiently answered by the noble lord opposite him. His noble friend had expressly stated, that the accounts moved for might not be perfect, but that they were the best, facts that could be obtained on the
646Earl spencer
645 alleged that the noble lord had mistaken his meaning from beginning to end. He had not spoken of any inference from the accounts, but only said, that they would not establish the facts required, and were therefore useless. For the point, he had only meant that the documents being useful on another inquiry, the expediency of that inquiry should first be determined, before they were granted, as the production of them might create much trouble and alarm. Though the accounts might have been useful on the first passing of the bill, yet as, whatever was the original policy of that measure, it was not intimated that any doubt existed on the propriety of continuing
645Lord Hawkesbury
643 observed, that he should be under the necessity of opposing the mo-
643Lord Hawkesbury
 observed, that he could not conceive what regular or proper ground the noble lord could assume, on what might have taken place elsewhere, to put the question alluded to, to any particular peer in that House. However, the topic being mentioned, he had no hesitation to declare, what gave him heart-felt consolation, and what he was sure must afford all their lordships, and the country at large, the greatest satisfaction; namely, that there existed at present no necessary suspension whatever of his Majesty's royal functions or authorities.—The question being then put on Lord Hawkesbury's motion,Lord Hawkesbury
637636 rose and spoke in substance as follows.—He considered the important measure of continuing the restriction on the Irish Bank, 2s intimately connected with the question put by the noble lord who sat near him (King), as the furtherance of such measures, and, indeed, of all measures, necessarily supposed, that every part of the constitution was in full vigour. He was sure that every noble lord in the House heard the noble Secretary's answer with the highest satisfaction, and every individual in the country must also feel the same satisfaction, and the most lively gratitude to Providence, at the consoling intelligence, that the Sovereign, whom all loved and revered, was again in a
637636Lord Grenville
644 expressed his surprise that the coble lord should so confidently pronounce on the inferences which he might attempt to draw from the accounts he had moved form and it was the first time he had heard the production of papers opposed, which tended to give information to that House, because his Majesty's ministers did not draw the same conclusion from them which was sought to be established by the mover. Equally astonished was he, that when the question was on the propriety or impropriety of continuing the restriction on the Bank of Ireland, which necessarily involved the consideration of the comparative issue of paper in both countries, that his Majesty's ministers should refuse the House a document so necessary to the foil and just investigation of the subject before them. As to the noble lord's disapprobation of bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice previous to the recess, that surely would have to tendency on the present question. His lordship's arguments on the occasion seemed to be, "I will not let the House have documents en a point immediately before them, be cause these documents may have some bearing on an inquiry of which I disapprove, and which may hereafter be moved
644Lord Grenville
 again arose, and observed, that if the noble and learned lord had given an answer to the noble lord who sat near him, it would have been still more satisfactory. The learned lord had said, that be was anxious that there should be no misapprehension. In order to prevent ibis, it would be for him to say whether he understood him right, when he considered the declaration then made as corresponding with the rule laid down in the records of Parliament, on which his hand then rested. In that rule it appeared, that the particular point at which the interference of Parliament should be considered as necessary, was, when his Majesty was in such a slate as precluded his coming down to his Parliament, and transacting the business of the nation. When the minds of the public were filled with grief and alarm, at the indisposition of his Majesty at two former periods, this rule had been adopted and written in the Parliamentary Records, in order to form a guide to the legislature and the ministers how they were to act in the event of such a case happening again. What, therefore, he understood, by the declaration which had been made, was, that his Majesty was in such a state of health, and possesed of ail the faculties necessary for the discharge of the royal functions, that he was not prevented from coming down to Parliament, and transacting the business of the nation. In order, then, to prevent all misunderstanding, he would wish that the noble and learned lord would inform him, whether the sense in which he understood tile answer which had been given was correct. When the nation was, on two former occasions, tilled with sorrow, at an event similar to the present, the noble and learned lord who then sat on the woolsack, had satisfied the House, by declaring that he Lad waited on his Majesty in person, and on his own authority and observation declared to the House, that his Majesty was in a situation capable of discharging the functions of government. At a subsequent period, another noble lord, who then sat on the woolsack, bad affixed his seal to a commission for pissing bills in that House, which was one of the most important functions of government; thereby making himself personally responsible for the capability of his Majesty to discharge those very functions; and ibis was the very act which diffused joy and satisfaction over the nation at that time. He would, therefore, wish some explicit declaration were made by the learned lord, whether his idea of what had been said, in answer to his noble friend, was just?Lerd Grenville
 said, the noble lord would hive spared himself that observation had he looked at the title of the bill. In fact it had six weeks to continue.Lord Grenville
 took the opportunity to state, that it was his intention, after the recess, should no other peer more competent to do justice to the subject than himself come forward on the occasion, to call the attention of the House to an affair of considerable importance, and which had been the subject of a correspondance between a noble and learned lord (Redesdale), and another lord in Ireland the Ear of Fingal.The Earl of Suffolk
 quitted the woolsack, and observed, that relative to a bill of the peculiar nature of the present, his Majesty's concurrence was more especially necessary. He, therefore, rose for the purpose of informing the House, that he had the honour, yesterday, of an interview with his Majesty, and which was repeated this day; that he had informed his Majesty of the contents of this bill, and that his Majesty was graciously pleased to say, with reference to the same, that, as far as his Majesty's interest was concerned, their lordships might proceed with the bill.—The bill then passed the committee without observation or amendment, and was ordered to be reported to-morrow.The Lord Chancellor
701ll.7006991.l.l.698 rose to state several observations, which he felt it his duty to do, as he had reason to hope they would be not wholly without their use, although he should not formally resist the motion. The discussion which had already taken place on this important subject, had, he was persuaded, produced much benefit. The principles ha had frequently submitted to their lordships, were of that nature, that the more they were examined, the more conviction they carried with them; and so imperious was their necessity in the present circumstances of the nation, that he could not be too urgent with their lordships to give them their serious and repeated consideration. The stale of Ireland grew daily into a stronger proof of the accuracy of his former arguments. He would call on every noble Lord connected with that country, to give
701ll.7006991.l.l.698Lord King
 observed, that the noble lord had nor thought proper to bring forward that charge against his Majesty's officers in Ireland, who had paid certain pensions and salaries at par, which he had threatened on a former night; and, therefore, he supposed his lordship had abandoned it, having found on better information, that it was untenable. He had pledged himself, and would hive been glad to have met his lordship on that charge. With respect to the bill, his lordship said, it was too late to discuss the policy of it, after passing the Bank of England restriction bill. The Bank of Ireland must be restricted, as long as the bank of England is. And it would be as unjust to demand of the Bank of Ireland to pay in cash, as to make that demand on the country private Banks. He had lost a great deaf, as well as others, by the discount, He did not mean to trouble their lord-hips further; but he felt himself called upon to say thus much, by what fell from the noble lord.The Earl of Limerick
 rose to explain. He had never pledged himself to bring forward a charge against his Majesty's officers in Ireland, for paying at par. He only required to know the fact; without stating the use he meant to make of it. As to what he said to night on the point of paying at par, he only observed incidentally, that those officers pay themselves at par, which was acknowledging that Bank of Ireland notes were not worth as much as they were issued for; and also, that they might have paid others at par as well as themselves.Lord King
709 said, that none of the arguments of the noble lord who had just sat down, satisfied him of the necessity of the measure now proposed for the adoption of their lordships. The restriction in question was adopted only as a temporary measure, and as a remedy adapted to the then circumstances of the country, but no argument could from thence be inferred, that this restriction was not to be removed as soon as possible. He differed from the opinion which the noble lord seemed to adopt, as if the forced circulation of paper currency would not force the circulation of specie out of the kingdom; for, as soon as the latter got out of circulation, it would no doubt, be sent abroad, although it would, no doubt, return again, not as coin, but as bullion. The restriction on the Bank, though at first adopted as a temporary measure, yet, from its having been renewed year after year, would naturally produce the effect of inducing the Hank not to keep so much ready cash as it would otherwise do; and this very circumstance was one cause of the scarcity of the circulating medium. His lordship contended that before this bill passed, evidence ought to be produced, that she causes which imposed the restriction upon the Bank at first, still continued. It seemed clear enough that these renewed restrictions had not attained the end originally proposed, namely, the re-taining, within the kingdom, a sufficient quantity of the circulating medium for the public service, nor would this end be answered till the Bank renewed its payments. And with respect to Ireland, if it should appear that the situation in which that country found itself, was owing if the previous restrictions which had been imposed on the Bank of England, this, his lordship said, was an additional reason in his mind for altering
709The Earl of Carnarvon
 supported the motion. He considered the present state of the Bank, both of England and Ireland, as a solecism in the history of finance. There was no less than 20 millions of paper in circulation, for which the holders could only require payment in the same kind. He confessed when the measure of the Bank restriction was first adopted, he did not foresee that at the distance of 7 years they would be again discussing the same measure.—With regard to the situation of Ireland, its paper was in a most unfortunate state, and he was very happy to find that a committee had been moved for in another place, by a right hon. gent, of the greatest talents (Foster), and who thoroughly understood the subject. If it were possible to afford any Parliamentary relief to Ireland, he was sine there was no person more able to point it out than the right hon. gent, to whom he alluded.—He did not agree with those who thought that no advantage could result from the appointment of committees of this kind, for if they were not able to suggest every practical measure that could be adopted, at least they pot the House in possession of facts that could be depended upon, and upon which they might from their judgment.—With regard to the state of exchange of Ireland, for the last 5 years, mote money had flowed into Ireland from this country, than had been drawn from it, in consequence of the lo ins which she had made in this country, and the balance of trade, if carefully examined, would not, he was sure, be found to be against Ireland. Therefore, it was not a real exchange against Ireland, but a depreciation of her paper, because if a person were to pay a hundred pounds in Ireland, in Bank of England notes, or a hundred guineas, he would obtain a draft upon England for the whole amount, without any deduction. With regard to the bill before the House, he should give his vote for going into the committee, because, in the present situation of affairs, he did not see how the restriction could be taken off the Bank of Ireland.Lord Auckland
l.713l..712711 conceived, that few of the observations which had been entered into by noble lords, had application to the question then before the House, which was, whether the present bill should go in to a committee? And what was the object of that bill? Nothing more than to continue in Ireland a regulation which had been adopted, and still continues in Gt. Britain; and which, while it exists in one country, must exist in another. He should consider himself as doing the greatest injustice and injury, not
l.713l..712711The Lord Chancellor
710 was against the bill, considering the present circumstances of both countries. When the restriction of the Bank of England was first laid on. the notes issued by it amounted to between 6 and 700,000, but now they amounted to more than 2 millions. The difficulty would be greater now to the Bank it the restriction were taken off; but whilst it was to be taken into consideration, on the one hand, the loss which the Bank of Ireland would sustain by resuming payment in specie (and in which case it ought to have the assistance of the
710Lord Carysfort
708707l.l.;l.l.l.706l observed, that the arguments produced by the noble lord did not, in his opinion, warrant the conclusion which was attempted to be drawn. An investigation into the affairs of the Bank of Ireland would, in the present circumstances of the country, produce an injurious rather than a beneficial effect. No case had been made out which was sufficient to justify such an interference. The inconveniencies which it would produce, and the alarm which it would excite throughout the country, would far more than counterbalance any supposed advantages which would attend it. The bill of restriction which it had been found necessary to continue for some years past, was, he was ready to confess, not a measure in itself desirable, but which was found necessary to prevent greater inconveniencies than if such a bill had not passed. The experience of a few years had pointed out the expediency of such a measure, nor did he apprehend it was politically safe and adviseable in the present state of warfare, and when the minds of many were alarmed with the threats of invasion, to revert to the old system of admitting payments in specie to be demanded of the bank. It was true, that a considerable increase in the quantity of notes had been issued by the Bank of Ireland since the measure of restricting the payment in specie, had been adopted. It was to be observed at the panic time, that this did not produce a proportionate decrease in the quantity of the current coin, and this his lordship thought could be clearly proved from an examination of various official documents, some of which lie held his hand, and from facts which had occurred in the history of coining in this country.—In the year 1793, the number of provincial banks were at least 400, and within a given period after the restriction was laid on, they were number from o50 to 360. Me contended, that the paper circulation did not tend to drive the coin out of the country. A diminution of the cash in the country, to whatever degree it may occasionally take place, was atributable to very different causes: if may arise tiara the balance of trade and of payments, which, as they were in favour or against a country, tended either to extract cash or to cause an influx of it. The demands for coin at the Clint were, during his Majesty's reign, and more especially the latter part of it, incomparably greater than at any former periods: during the present reign, the coinages exceeded 64,600,000708707l.l.;l.l.l.706lLord Hawkesbury
705704703l.702 said, the noble Earl had made a strange assertion, when he said, it would be as unjust to ask the Bank of Ireland to pay in cash, as to make the same demand of the private and country banks. His lordship did not seem to be aware, that the legislature had never interfered, and God forbid it ever should, to enable private banks to pay their own issues in a depreciated circulation. To the noble lord who opened the debate, the country was highly indebted for bringing forward the discussion. He agreed with the noble, lord, that much good had resulted from former discussions on this subject. The industry and talents employed by his lordship on this intricate question, had afforded much light to every impartial person, As to the
705704703l.702Lord Grenville
 took the opportunity afforded by the reading of one of the clauses, to offer a few observations upon the measure. He was of opinion that some limitation should be set to the issue of the Bank of Ireland paper; and he should have felt it a serious public duty to have called the attention of the House forcibly to the subject, were it not that the provisions in the bill set his mind at ease, under the present circumstances, upon that part of the subject. Of that clause which empowered the legislature to alter, modify, or repeal the bill, in the course of the present session, he particularly approved. Without these salutary provisions, he was open to acknowledge, that he should feel some apprehensions respecting the issue of Irish Bank paper: the excessive issue of which, he entertained no doubt, was the principal cause of the great depreciation of the currency in that part of the United Kingdom. He calculated there was at present six times the amount of paper in circulation that there had been prior to she restriction upon the Bank; indeed, that an excessive issue should cause a depreciation, resulted from the very nature of things, as a glut in (he market of any commodity tended to lower the price.Lord Auckland
716 stated, that he had to propose the insertion of a cause in the bill, explanatory or a provision which had been made in the bill of restriction, originally passed in the Parliament of Ireland, and had been since regularly enacted in the subsequent
716Lord King
 observed, that this was the first time he had heard of the proceedings stated by the noble lord, as far as related to the with-holding costs; possibly such decisions might have taken place in the Irish law courts, He did not pledge himself to the negative, but he assured the committee he had never heard of any such. Upon the authority before their lordships he thought it would be going too far to enact the provision; proposed by the noble lord. In the state of darkness, in that respect, in which they then were, he thought it would be preferable to let the act remain as it stood, and that they should wait until inquiries shall have been made, and the facts ascertained, previous to their taking any legislative steps upon the subject.Lord Carleton
717 expressed his thorough acquiescence in what fell from the noble and learned lord: he thought the subject one of very serious importance; it would be preferable, as things stood, to let the bill remain as it was, than to enact the provision proposed by the noble lord. The suitors, in the alternative alluded to, had the appellants jurisdiction to resort to. His lordship also was adverse to such a step being taken, without full and adequate information on the subject, relating to the character of the administration of justice in another
717The Lord Chancellor
l.l. again rose, and made some general observations upon the injurious effects of excessive issue of paper in Ireland, as well in reference to the course of exchange, as the depreciation of the currency. Under these impressions, he proposed the introduction of a clause tending to set a limit to the issue of paper by 'he Bank of Ireland: his clause would go to fix the limit of the paper issue to the amount it was on the 25th of Nov. last, the latest period to which the accounts were made up: this would give room even for an excessive issue, as it was upwards of 2,900,000l.l.Lord King
718 said, be did not mean then to give any opinion upon the points under discussion. He entertained a favourable opinion of the Irish Bank directors, who he trusted would not make an improper use of the discretion vested in them; but he
718Earl Darnley
 deemed it his duty to resist the adoption of the clause proposed by the noble lord, against which he argued, chiefly on the ground of the impropriety of legislating on such a principle, in bills of the description of that before the House. It would go to legalize and to sanction the issue of paper to a particular amount, to a degree beyond what the legislature could intend to do in such a case; and further, it would be giving an express opinion on the part of the legislature, as to the precise amount to which the issue of bills should extend. Under the present circumstance's, he thought it would be preferable to trust to the discretion of the bank directors, which he thought would be soundly used, and their issue regulated according to circumstances, which was the case with the Bank of England, sometimes more and sometimes less; fluctuating in their issues, with a reference to existing circumstances. Such a provision was the less necessary, when the controlling powers of the clauses in the bill alluded to in an early part of the discussion, were considered. He hoped the noble lord did not mean to press the clause.Lord Hawkesbury
 expressed his coincidence in opinion with the noble lord, as to a part of his observations, but not with respect to the whole of them. He was at present averse from giving an opinion their affirmatively or negatively, as to the real cause of the depreciation of the Irish currency; and in like manner, he would then refrain from stating a decided opinion upon the point of an inquiry being set on foot in that House, similar to what was instituted in the other House of Parliament. With respect to a general investigation of the subject, the inclination of his opinion was, that under the present circumstances of the country, such a proceeding would be, upon the whole, rather injurious than beneficial. He thought, however, it would be preferable to wait the result of the pending inquiry, before any proceeding or measure of importance, relative to the subject, should be adopted in that House. He was of the noble lord's opinion as to the expediency of a provision is the bill, enabling Parliament to modify or alter the measure during the present session.Lord Hawkesbury
 rose, and made some observations relative to certain provisions which had been introduced into the bill, the effect of which, and more especially their introduction into a bill such as that under consideration, he highly disapproved. The provisions to which he alluded, went to authorise the collection of tolls upon the passage of army waggons, &c. over certain bridges. Having stated his grounds of objection to such a regulation, in some detail, the noble duke observed, that the principle upon which it proceeded was a novel one, with a reference to bills of a similar description of that before their lordships. His interference was guided by no other motive than a view to the public service. Mutiny bills may be said to be regular annual bills since the establishment of a standing army, and were necessarily so, as long as that establishment continued. He did not then move to expunge the provisions in question, but he trusted what he had thrown out: would have its weight with the framers of such bills, and induce them to amend the act accordingly.—Some private business was then disposed of, and the House adjourned.The Duke of Norfolk
808 rose, and addressed a va-
808Farl Fitztwilliam
809 in answer to what had fallen from the noble earl, observed, that for any proposition coming from such a quarter, he entertained the highest respect; indeed upon such a very important topic, observations coming from any individual peer in that House, were entitled to the most serious attention. With respect to the doubts entertained by the noble earl, he could assure his lordship and the House, that in every thing connected with so grave, important, and momentous an occasion as that in question, he had proceeded with all that delicacy, deliberation, and caution which such an occasion evidently required; he had proceeded on the occasion even with fear and trembling; to speak more specifically to the point, he observed, that not satisfied with the reports and assurances of the medical attendants of his Majesty on so important an occasion, he thought it proper and necessary to have a personal interview with the Sovereign, and at which due discussion took place as to the bills which were offered for the royal assent, and which was fully expressed. He would sooner suffer his right band to be severed from his body, than in such an instance he would agree to act upon light or superficial grounds. He thought it his bounden and indispensable duty, and which he trusted he always had, and always should conscientiously discharge, to proceed in the manner he had stated: and he had
809The Lord Chancellor
 rose, not, he said, to oppose the bill, but he could not pass by the opportunity which it afforded him of warning the artists of this country of the great injury which they were doing, both to their own character and interest, and to the interests of the country, by the slovenly manner in which most of the works of art in this country were now executed. He stated it to be a fact, that in consequence of the very superior execution of the print of the death of Captain Cook, by Woollett, and of the Battle, of La Hogue, English engravings had risen to a high reputation on the Continent; So much was this the case, that for the former of these engravings, Woollet received between 6,000l. and 7,000l. and the revenue coming into this country from this branch of art, at one time exceeded 200,000l. per annum. By the slovenly manner, however, in which works of this kind were now executed, both the individual and public advantages had ceased to operate. He did not mean to apply the doctrine which he had now laid to the gentlemen concerned in the present bill. Their conduct and exertions, he was ready to confess, had been highly meritorious.The Earl of Suffolk
850 said, that however much he might disapprove of the practice of granting privileges similar to those contained in the present bill, for the disposal of private property, he, for one, and he was convinced every man who heard him, would agree in thinking that the conferring such a privilege on the Messrs. Boydell's, was no more than a tribute justly due to them from their country, in which they had been the principal instruments of improving, if not of establishing the arts of painting and engraving. He was not prepared to say, that the noble earl was not unfounded in his ge-
850The Lord Chancellor
 was heard on the part of the Respondents in the Appeal Cause the Hon. C. Elphinstone Fleeming v. Hon. G. Montgomery. To be further proceeded in on Friday.—The Irish Malt Duty Bill, the Irish Countervailing Duties Bill, and the Hides and Tallow Importation Bill were severally read a third time and passed, and ordered back to the Commons.—A person from the Exchequer Office in Ireland presented at the bar certain documents respecting the case of Redington v. Redington, which is to be heard before their Lordships.—Adjourned.Mr. Alexander
 made a few observations, principally in support of what fell from the noble earl near him (Spencer); he urged the propriety of giving the bill a full and mature consideration in that house, he adverted to the deliberate discussions it had undergone in the other House of Parliament, and the many alterations and amendments it had been found necessary to make in the measure as originally proposed to that House.Earl Fitzwilliam
1006 expressed his coincidence in a great deal of what fell from the noble earls on his side of the House; but at the same time he must avow his opinion, that in the present circumstances of the country, the bill should be delayed as little as possible in its progress. No lord could more highly estimate the character and dignity of that House than himself: there were certain regulations in the bill which it would be expedient to carry into effect as
1006Earl Darnley
 warmly deprecated every idea of hurrying the progress of a bill of such importance as the present through the House: an attempt of the kind militated against the letter and spirit of certain standing orders. He knew there were certain precedents for speedily pushing bills through the House, but he hoped they would not be acted upon; it was the duty of the House fully and maturely to consider and investigate the measure. He fully agreed in what had been stated by a noble earl of the nature of the bill; it was one of an intricate kind, and should not be hastily proceeded with: its effects on, and connexion with other measures proposed by ministers in the last session, should be also considered, as well as the length of time which they suffered to elapse before they came forward with the bill in question. The noble earl, after animadverting on the conduct of ministers in these respects, contended for the propriety of discussing the measure in the most cautious and deliberate manner.The Earl of Carnarvon
1008 quitted the woolsack, and delivered his sentiments upon the occasion. He adverted to the irregular turn which the debate had taken, but which to observe upon, as he then felt it proper, he must necessarily fall into the same irregularity himself. The question he conceived was, whether the bill should be read a second time on Tuesday; and in considering this, the noble and learned lord commented on what had fallen from a noble earl then near him, and from a noble lord who had spoken rather at length on the opposite side of the House: the inconsistency of whose arguments, as operating either in favour of delay, or on the contrary, for expedition, were pointedly remarked upon by his Lordship.—With his noble friend he agreed in the propriety of maturely and deliberately considering the measure before them; it was irregular in point of form, as well as an erroneous way of considering the case, to go upon an assumption of what the House in its wisdom may resolve upon with respect to the ensuing period of recess. He seemed to think the latter day mentioned, the preferable of the two, as, in common with several of their Lordships, he knew but very little of the detailed provisions of
1008The Lord Chancellor
 spoke in explanation, and Lord Minto seemed inclined to speak, when.Earl Darnley
 deemed it incumbent on him to remind their Lordships of the obvious irregularity of the present discussion. There was, strictly speaking, no question before the House, as in point of form, the second reading of the bill could not regularly be moved for, until the prints were before their Lordships.—The correctness of this remark was acknowledged by the Lord Chancellor; and Lord Hawkesbury, in the course of a short explanation as to the point of form, reminded their Lordships, that what the Noble Lord had observed, had been conceived by him in the first instance. He then observed that it was his intention to move for the second reading of the bill, on Tuesday.Lord Walsingham
1007 made a variety of observations, not only on the bill itself, but on a great part of the conduct of his Majesty's ministers relative thereto. In one point of view, it was his wish that the bill should receive the sanction of the legislature as speedily as possible, as it Contained, in particular, one provision of which he approved, namely, that which held out a bounty for the encouragement of volunteers to perfect themselves in military discipline and exercise. This part of the bill, when he considered the critical circumstances, with respect to pending invasion, in order to be of real service, should be carried into effect as speedily as possible, for on a short approaching interval muck may depend. The noble lord then adverted to the delays which he conceived ministers had suffered to take place with respect to the measure in question, and censured their conduct on that head. Much time had been lost. This was the only measure they brought forward for the defence of the country, and as little time should be lost as possible. He deprecated the idea of losing any time in consideration of a recess, but if such a proceeding was resolved upon, he hoped it would be for the shortest period possible, not extending beyond the Monday, which would follow the second reading of the bill. His Lordship then alluded to some parts of the bill, which, from their questionable nature, as well as on account of the conduct of
1007Lord Harrowby
1005 rose, not, he said, for the purpose of opposing the measure, or to throw any difficulties in the way of his Majesty's government in the present circumstances, but merely to suggest to Ministers and to the House the consideration, whether a bill of the peculiar nature and importance as that, the heads of which had just been read, a measure, the principle of which was not only so very important, but in itself embracing such a variety of detailed provisions, could be maturely considered so far as to make up their Lordships minds, as to that species of discussion required at a second reading, in the very short interval between the delivery of the bill and Monday next: he thought it could not. He deprecated the idea of any improper haste being used in the progress of the bill in that House. Their Lordships would recollect the extraordinary length of time it was under consideration in another place, the repeated dis-
1005Earl Spencer
 observed, it was by no means the wish of his Majesty's ministers to use any improper haste in the progress of the bill; on the contrary, it was their wish that the measure should undergo a full and thorough investigation. At the same time he could not avoid observing to the noble earl, that the detailed and repeated discussions the bill had already received, rendered its contents pretty well known to the public, and perhaps to a great number of their Lordships; however, though his wish was, that a measure of such peculiar importance in the present circumstances on the country, should receive as little delay as possible, under what had been suggested, he had no objection to take Tuesday as the day for his moving the second reading.Lord Hawkesbury
 in explanation, assured the noble lords there was no intention of the part of ministers to hurry the progress of the measure. He was equally aware of the various and complicated nature of the measure, as of its peculiar importance; it certainly embraced many detailed considerations, each of which involved a principle in itself; it was then right that the whole should be fully and maturely considered, and if such could not be done previous to the recess, they had no particular desire to urge its passing before that period.Lord Hawkesbury,
 moved the first reading of the Volunteer Consolidation Bill; accordingly the title and breviate of the bill was read by the Lord Chancellor.—The noble Secretary then moved, that the bill be printed for the use of their Lordships. He observed, at the same time, that the forms of the House did not allow the second reading of a bill, to be regularly moved until the prints were before the House. However, as there was every probability that the prints would be ready for delivery to-morrow, he should now give notice, that on Monday it was his intention to move for the second reading of the bill.Lord Hawkesbury
 rose, not by any means to oppose the motion of the noble Sec. of State, but to express his most cordial approbation of the circumstances which gave rise to such an auspicious communication from the throne. He had to congratulate the inhabitants of both parts of the United Kingdom upon the occasion; his countrymen, upon their coming forward in a manner, so truly patriotic, and which redounded so greatly to their honour, and offering to identity their interests and their fate upon such an occasion as the present, and the inhabitants of G. Britain upon such an important accession to the active and efficient force of their country, lie felt assured, that in eases of the like necessity, the militia of G. Britain would freely come forward, and volunteer their services to any part of Ireland. He regarded this event as a most favourable opening, and which, he trusted, would lead to further interchanges and co-operations of the respective forces of both parts of the United Kingdom.The Earl of Limerick
 made a few observations to the same general effect as those which fell from the noble Earl.—The question was then put, and the motions of the noble Secretary of State ordered accordingly.Lord Carleton
1019 moved for the production of an account of all sums, &c. paid at par, to persons in and from Ireland, on the part of the government thereof, since the Union, and distinguishing the sums so paid, in the present session of Parliament, with an account of the
1019The Earl of Limerick
 expressed his wish to amend the noble Earl's motion, by the addition of account of all sums paid in specie in Dublin, to the same, if any were so paid." This was shortly objected to by the Earl of Limerick, on the score of irregularity, and as it may form ground to the noble Lord for a separate discussion.—And after a few words in explanation between these Peers, Lord King declined pressing the amendment—The question was then put upon the Earl of Limerick's motion, which was ordered accordingly.Lord King
 made a few observations relative to the future progress of the volunteer bill. He called the attention of the House to the great variety of important clauses and provisions which the bill contained. He did not think it probable the measure could be thoroughly discussed in a committee before the recess; he was therefore of opinion, that the detailed discussion of the bill should be postponed until after that period. He adverted to the circumstances of the very important information which was necessary to the due elucidation of the measure just moved for by his noble friend (Lord Grenville), which most probably could not be presented early enough for that part of the discussion, supposing it to come on before the recess. Upon the whole, the noble Earl seemed to think, that as there was no probability of the bill's getting through the committee before the recess, it would be preferable to postpone it, as a partial discussion of the measure before that period, in a committee, would rather be a disadvantage than of a beneficial tendency.Earl Spencer
 observed, it was his wish that the bill should go through a committee. As to the probable length of the discussion in that stage of the bill, he could not venture an opinion, as he could not tell what clauses or provisions any noble Lord might have to propose, or what objections may be offered to the existing regulations of the bill; but if he found that it was not possible, or very improbable, that their Lordships could get through with that stage of the bill fully before the recess, he should be rather inclined not to propose it, as he agreed with the noble Earl in deeming, that in such a case the proceeding would be rather disadvantageous than otherwise.Lord Hawkesbury
 moved, that the Volunteer Consolidation Bill, be read a second time to-morrow.—Ordered.Lord Hawkesbury
 presented a message from the King relative to the tender of the Irish militia regiments to serve in any part of G. Britain, similar to that delivered to the Commons. The message being read, his Lordship moved, that the same be taken into consideration on Wednesday next, and their Lordships summoned for that day.Lord Hawkesbury
 signified, that he had no objection to the noble Lord's motions.—The questions were then put, and the motions severally agreed to.Lord Hawkesbury
1018 said, that he had several motions connected with this measure to submit to the Mouse, but which he trusted would meet with no opposition. His motions were, for copies of the circular letters issued by the Secretary of State, on the subject of volunteer corps. 2dly, for the number of volunteer corps who had waved their right to exemptions, 3dly, for
1018Lord Grenville
10421041 in answer to the noble Lord who had just sat down, insisted that many of the objections of that noble Lord were irrelevant to the present stage of the bill. The question was not in regard to the propriety of the volunteer
10421041The Lord Chancellor,
10321031 thought the country was at a most critical moment. The die of its fate was in the air, and every nerve must be exerted in its cause. For that purpose there was need of the efforts of all, though not perhaps of that co-operation of which he had heard mention of certain great and honourable characters, whose talents he most highly admired, and who, he was sure, would not co-operate from any selfish or party view, to gain place or power.—Respecting administration, which had been accused very strongly of inability, he confessed he was not a sufficient judge on that subject. He had seen no proofs, no documents, from which he could establish that conclusion. But if any mistakes had been committed, it should in fairness he remembered, that the present circumstances of public, affairs were new, and that, he thought, should form an excuse for mistakes; at least it was so to him.—Of the volunteer system, he would say, that it was most noble in principle, most difficult in execution; but he trusted confidently, it would prove most successful in its effects. Who were the volun-
10321031The Bishop of Landaff
1033 entered at some length into the consideration of the principle and particular regulations of the bill. The question appeared to be, whether there was, in fact, any necessity for the volunteering system? and whether, if so, ministers had carried it into execution in the readiest and roost effectual manner? He conceived that the regulars and militia were not, under the present circumstances of the country, adequate to its defence, and therefore admitted that there was a necessity of resorting to the aid of volunteers, or a general arming. As to which was most proper—Ministers seemed to have acted under the most distressing uncertainty; indeed, nothing but doubt and inconsistency had marked their conduct upon the subject. They began with holding out no great encouragement to volunteers; then came the Defence Act; then the volunteers were encouraged a good deal more: they were, however, soon repressed again. In the minds of ministers, it was clear there existed no distinct notion of any necessity as to the volunteer system. They brought it forward, and repressed it, just as it suited the opinion of the moment. The measures now under consideration, his Lordship thought, shewed neither cleverness nor consistency. He approved of the volunteer system, but thought it should have been instituted on a more reasonable plan in point of ex-pence. Had this been considered at first, and the system been constructed on regular principles, by this time that body of men would have been as complete as their nature would admit. Ministers, he thought, had acted very absurdly in applying one rule to all the counties. Ask any man, how little so ever acquainted with the subject, he would say it was common sense, that a greater number of volunteers should be permitted in Kent, Sussex, and other maritime counties, to what was allowed in Nottingham or Northamptonshire. So
1033Earl Darnley
1034 observed, the question now before their Lordships was, that this bill be read a second time: he, said that he could not help observing, there had been great irregularity in this debate, by almost entirely departing from the question, He assured their Lordships that he should not take up much of their time. He was too far advanced in life to have any object in speaking, but from public duty. He would not waste time in complimenting ministers on the wisdom of their measures, having very little acquaintance with any of them, except from official correspondence, and he did not even know who were their opposers: he rose as an old volunteer, feeling it his indispensible duty to do justice to that species of force, which upon every occasion had acted with honour and spirit. He said he could not but regret, that many reflections had been thrown out in speeches and in publications against the volunteer system, (which term he should use, notwithstanding it had been disapproved of by a noble Lord), some from ignorance and folly, and others, he was afraid, from worse principles. His Lordship was confident, that the most malicious insinuations would not raise a jealousy between the volunteers and regular army; it was their joint honour and interest to support each other. The numerous body of Volunteers all over this kingdom, certainly must appear to our enemies a formidable bulwark of defence of our King, our constitution, our religion, and every thing dear to us.—He had great experience last war in raising volunteers in the county where he has the honour to be Lord Lieut. He has at this time a very considerable number, and might have had a great many more, had govt, accepted of the offers; and he was proud to say, during all that period he never had occasion to make a complaint to the war office but of one, and that was a captain returning a lieut. present when absent, and he was superseded, His Lordship was of opinion that the volunteers certainly had the power of resigning, but at the same time he was fully convinced that they would never desire to exercise that right so long as their country required
1034The Earl of Fife
 took a similar view of the subject, and would answer, when the occasion came, the volunteers would be equal to encounter the soldiers of France. They must surely be equal, at least, to forced conscripts chained hand in hand. He felt that the stake at risk was great, but was confident that the volunteers would prove equal to the trial, and repel any force that could be brought against them. Were the danger even more pressing, we should not imagine, for a moment, they would shrink from their duty. I On these accounts he thought they should be encouraged, and officers of service should mix among them. One eminent officer had given a great example of this. General Harris, the commander of the Indian army at the siege of Seringapatam, had not thought it beneath him to accept; the station of lieut.-col. of a corps of volunteers. He thought, however, that the proportion should have been greater in the maritime counties than in the inland. The policy in this was so clear, as to admit of no doubt, notwithstanding ministers had pursued a different course. With respect to this bill, he thought it contained many regulations which would tend to improve and meliorate that system; and therefore he should give it his entire support.Lord Romney
1035 said a few words, but in BO low a tone as almost to be in-
1035The Duke of Somerset
1027 expressed his entire disapprobation of the bill, which commenced with an affirmation totally repugnant to the principles of the constitution. His Lordship adverted to the General Defence Act, carried through the House in two days; and which, in common with the present bill, contained the assertion of a very extraordinary prerogative,
1027The Earl of Carnarvon
 professed that he was by no means convinced by the arguments of the noble and learned Lords. Having proceeded to some length in repeating his former reasoning, he was called to order byThe Earl of Carnarvon
 who gave it as his opinion, that the whole of the noble Earl's speech was irrelevant to the bill before them.The Earl of Morton;
 stated, that he rose for the purpose of explanation, a privilege seldom denied by the courtesy of their Lordships; and if they should on the present occasion deviate from their usual practice, it was competent for him to move for a Committee, in which he would have the liberty of speaking as often as he pleased. His Lordship resumed his argument, when he was a second time called to order byThe Earl of Carnarvon
 who expressed his extreme reluctance to interrupt the noble Earl, but he thought it due to the dignity and regularity of their Lordships proceedings, not to suffer such irrelevant matter to be introduced into the debate; he must, therefore, be under the necessity of appealing to the standing orders of the House.—The order was here read by the Clerk, which was in substance as follows: "that if any noble Lord should desire a committee, it should not be refused him."Lord Hobart,
1030 wished, as the present was, in all probability, the only opportunity that he should have to debate the principles of the bill, to trespass, for a few minutes, on their Lordships attention, He would confess that he saw no advantages whatever likely to arise from the present bill, and he conceived that the defence of the county, so far from being improved, was materially injured by the volunteer system in general, and most particularly so by the provisions of the present bill. He censured the ministers for the various incongruous measures they had brought forward at different times, for the defence of the country. The militia and army of
1030Lord King
1044 defended generally the conduct of govt, with respect to the exertions they had made for placing the country in a situation of defence equal to the exigencies of the present moment. This country now exhibited a force unexampled in its history of 628,000 men in arms, and he thought that the exertions of the present administration, in getting forward so large a force, were equal to the exertions of any former minister, even when every allowance was made for the difference of the present times, which required considerably greater exertions than were necessary in any former war. The greatest military force that this country possessed for its defence in that period of the last war, when it was at the highest, amounted to 175,000 regulars and militia, and l68,000 volunteers; but now the whole force of the United Kingdom amounts already to 628,000 men in arms, a number, too, which is daily increasing us the vacancies in the militia are filled up. Most of the noble Lords who had spoken, appeared, and with great reason, to be much attached to that part of our force which was called regulars: he could assure them that that part of our force, was at psesent very nearly as high as at any period of the last war; we had now of that description, 98,000 in G. Britain, Ireland, and the islands in the Channel; but he had been always accustomed to consider the militia also on the footing of regulars. Above two-thirds of their number were already completed, and their
1044Lord Hobart
1045 did not oppose the volunteer system, nor the principle of the bill, but objected very strongly to some of the clauses, and particularly to that clause in which, after the necessity of encouraging the volunteers to go upon permanent duty was admitted, the guinea bounty, which was proposed for an inducement to them, was to be laid out in necessaries at the discretion of the commanding officer: he disapproved of this, as taking away the inducement which was held out; and as to the article of great coats, which were stated to be so necessary, he believed there were very few volunteers who were not already possessed of great coats, which, whatever might be their colour, were sufficient to keep them warm: even if they had not great coats, a blanket, in actual service, might answer the purpose as well. If they wanted these things, however, they ought to be got, whatever was the expence. He had not so poor an idea of the resources of this country, or of any other country, as to suppose they could not afford to provide that which was absolutely necessary to enable their soldiers to take the field. In speaking of the perfection to which volunteers might be brought by skilful officers, he took notice of the volunteers with which he was best acquainted, the volunteers in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, who had made such a proficiency, that it was allowed by military men that they were perfectly fit to take the field with regular troops. General Simcoe, and other general officers, had borne similar testimony of volunteer regiments in other parts of the United Kingdom. He had heard military men, of great experience and judgment, say, that the first qualification for soldiers was the intention to fight: in this qualification he supposed none of the volunteers of the empire would be found deficient. He concluded by expressing his disapprobation of the exemptions
1045The Duke of Montrose
1046 said, he was not surprised that there existed a difference of opinion upon this important subject. In considering it, however, it was necessary to take a view of the real situation in which the country stands. We were at present, engaged in a war for the purpose of deciding, not whether we are to maintain our present high rank among the nations of Europe, but whether the British empire was any longer to enjoy existence. Our commercial strength depends upon our military strength. We must recollect, that our enemy is as regardless of the lives of his soldiers or subjects, as he is of those of his enemies. Such being the case, we must therefore powerfully feel the necessity of strong exertions. He was persuaded, that the spirit which prevailed in the country was amply sufficient to enable it to encounter its dangers. So long as there existed any apprehension of invasion, it was necessary to guard against it; and the system which had been adopted was the most proper for that purpose. We must recollect the great number of vulnerable points on our coast, and how near our metropolis is situated to the coast of the enemy. It was impossibly for the country to supply a regular army, sufficiently numerous for its immediate defence, without the assistance of the armed population. The only question was, how is that to be obtained? For his part, he could not see any means more efficacious than those which ministers had adopted. As to the excellence of an armed peasantry, he thought it was quite ideal. Had any person asked him, previous to any of the discussions on the volunteer bill, why he preferred volunteers in the present situation of the country, he would have answered, that it was because the volunteer system was one which did not interfere with the militia, army of reserve, or the recruiting of the regular army. The objections stated against the system constituted the very reasons for which he approved of it. It was not from theory alone, but from practice, he grounded his opinion. The militia force was already nearly completed. The volunteer system lessened the number of balloted men, but increased the number of substitutes. The volunteers were much greater sufferers than if they had actually endured the bal-
1046The Earl of Westmoreland
1047 said, he by no mean? entertained such gloomy apprehensions as some noble Lords appeared to do, respecting the probable duration of the war, or the final result of it: he hoped that the end of it would be, that France would not be permitted to retain her dominion over the continent of Europe; but whether the termination of it was near or at a distance, the country had this year placed itself higher than ever in the opinion of all nations, and might be justly proud of its military strength. If he was asked his opinion, whether 628,000 men in arms were: enough for the defence of the country in the present circumstances, he should say, he believed the number was considerably more than we wanted. Although, of course, every noble Lord must wish the country to be in the most perfect state of security, yet then: were certainly some limits to be placed to the number called out in its defence, and that upon different considerations: 1st, as to economy, can we afford to pay such au immense number of men? and 2ndly, in point of prudence and general policy, is
1047Lord Auckland
 stated some objections as to the delay which would thus be occasioned; and wished some earlier day to be appointed, as he conceived it to be of the utmost importance that volunteers should go upon permament pay and duty as soon as possible.Lord Harrowby
10291028—My Lords; in this age, when we are daily accustomed to so many adventurous propositions, I really did not expect that any noble Lord would have ventured to question a radical, substantial, unquestionable, and hitherto never-questioned prerogative of the Crown, that of calling forth, upon emergency, the services of all the subjects of this realm. My Lords, from the earliest period of our history, we have been by statute a military people; and this right, inherent in the crown, from the Norman conquest to this day, and which I contend to be indefeasible, cannot be abandoned without the commission of an act of political suicide, both by his Majesty and by his people. My Lords, I have in my pockets one of the most solemn documents to support the opinion I have given, a document carrying the authority of King, Lords, and Commons, and concurred in by what, perhaps, the noble Earl who spoke last, may think of very little consequence, the opinion of the judges who administered justice at that period. My Lords, the document. I allude to} is, I will admit, not to he found in any of our statute books,
10291028Lord Ellenborough
1043 thought the volunteer system as it stood, could not meet the approbation of the House. He was by no means an enemy to Volunteer Corps. He had the honour to belong to one since the year 1794, the period of their first formation,
1043Earl Spencer
 spoke in terms of high praise of the volunteers, and entertained no fears of their having any disposition to disband. He did not see much to praise in the present bill, but approved of giving the volunteers the advantage of the militia, when called out. After the many contradictions of last year, he thought it would be rather too sanguine to look to the perfection of the system by this measure.Lord Boringdon
1026102510241023 rose, and spoke nearly as follows:—My Lords, in proposing to you that the bill for the regulation of the system, under which the volunteers are embodied, be read a 2nd time, it is my duty to call your attention to the acts, relating to this description of force, which were passed in a former session. I am aware, that this is but a very narrow and limited view of the subject. When I shall allude to the principles of the volunteer acts, I cannot well do it, without alluding to the other measures which his Majesty's govt, have adopted, for supporting, or deriving support from, that species of force, which it is the object of the present bill to render as efficient as the nature of such a body, and the principles of its institution, can reasonably admit: and before I enter upon the details of those other measures of defence, which the govt, has provided, I trust, my Lords, that I may be allowed to make a short observation on the exercise of a right, which I have ever understood to be inherent in the person vested with the executive power of the state—I mean that prerogative residing in the Crown, of calling forth the services of all capable persons in the country, upon actual invasion, or strong apprehension of it. This right, my Lords, I conceive to be one of the indefeasible prerogatives of the King of this kingdom; not a prerogative of recent growth, but discoverable in every part of our history: and I own, that it was with much astonishment I heard it controverted
1026102510241023Lord Hawkesbury
 said, that there was nothing in the bill that would occasion any necessity for its being hurried through its remaining stages. He understood, that upwards of 30,000 volunteers had already gone upon permanent pay and duty, in the manner proposed by the bill; and he had every reason to think that a great many more would, in the mean time, pursue the same plan to perfect themselves in their discipline.—The motion for the bill being committed on Thursday se'nnight, was then agreed to, and the House, at II o'clock, adjourned till to-morrow.Lord Hawkesbury
 moved, that it be committed on Thursday se'nnight, being the first day of meeting after the recess.Lord Hawkesbury
 said, he had never contended that the Sovereign had not a right, in case of invasion, to call upon the ser-vices of his liege subjects, because that the King had a right, representing the community, to call, in such a case of extreme necessity, upon the services of all his subjects for the public defence, was not only a constitutional principle, but formed a part of the essence of civil society. The thing which he objected to was this, that this bill, in carrying this principle into execution, gave the crown a power, not to call upon the whole or any class of the people, but upon any individual, and to place him in any regiment of the line, or militia.Lord Grenville
10401039103810371036 began by expressing his satisfaction that those who found it their duty to oppose the bill, were not now supposed to be enemies to the volunteer system. It would, indeed, be strange, that those who had used the utmost exertions to consolidate that system, should for a moment be considered as individuals who wished it to be dissolved, even under the present critical circumstances of the empire. No man, he would affirm, could entertain a higher idea than he did of the zeal, the energy, and the spirit of the people of England; and no idea could be more monstrous than to suppose that 400,000 volunteers, who had stepped forward in defence of who liberties and independence of their country; would not be found capable of the most important services. It was not that he doubted of the courage of the volunteers of England, but it was keeping in view, that those whom they were to encounter were troops of undoubted courage, and who had enjoyed the advantage of a degree of discipline obtained in not less than 12 campaigns, in which they were opposed to all the best disciplined troops in Europe. With the knowledge of the enemy to be opposed, it was undoubtedly the duty of ministers to have directed their principal attention to that description of force which was to be encountered. In the present bill, his Lordship declared that he saw not the slightest evidence of a regular military system. Since the commencement of the war, he had hitherto seen no evidence of a system adequate to the crisis in which we were placed, the various parts of which had any reasonable degree of relation or connection. What he had principally to object to the volunteer system, as it at present stood, was, that it had stood in the way of every other department of the national defence. The recruiting not merely of the regulars, but the filling up of the militia, had been materially affected by the provision which the bill now contained. A noble Lord had stated one fact, which effectually proved the assertion which he had submitted to their Lordships' consideration. The fact to which he referred was, that in the county of Kent, at the breaking out of the war, there were not more them 37 individuals embodied
10401039103810371036Lord Grenville
10561055 said, he fully agreed in the tribute of applause that had been paid by the noble Sec. of State to the spirit, loyalty, and patriotism of the troops in question; but when he concurred
10561055The Duke of Montrose
 joined heartily in the tribute of applause that had justly been bestowed upon the noble and patriotic men who had come forward with a voluntary offer of an extension of their services. He rejoiced in the prospect that it had opened, of having the services of the militia of both countries being made reciprocal, as it would go to establish that principle of unity which ought to subsist between G. Britain and Ireland. The sooner a complete union, in every point of view, was effected, the better it would be for both countries. He heartily joined in the address which it Was now intended to present to his Majesty, and would only farther say, that he apprehended this was no partial offer, but that it was made by the whole militia of Ireland.The Marquis of Sligo
1057 begged leave also to join in the applause that had on all hands been given to the patriotic offer of the troops in question. He was aware of the incalculable advantages that would re-suit from it, both to this country and to Ireland. He heartily agreed, that the two countries should, as much as possible, be assimilated. The Irish troops had thus shewn their love for the country, their seal and attachment to the constitution, which he knew distinguished not only the troops in question, but the whole army is Ireland. But to pronounce their eulogiun did not become a person in his situation; that he would leave to other Lords: and it was his intention to have contented himself with a silent vote on the present occasion, but something had fallen from a noble Duke (of Montrose) to which he could not but advert. He had, said, if his money served him rightly, that it would be manly in ministers to bring forward a measure which would reader the extension of the militia service a
1057The Earl of Limerick
 in reply to Lord Grenville, observed, that he recollected no such advice as had been referred to, but now it was impossible to break our faith with the militia. He concurred in the applause bestowed on the troops in question, and said, that from his long residence in Ireland, he knew that an equal spirit of patriotism prevailed in the whole army in. that country.Lord Hobart,
 only rose to advert to a point mentioned by the noble Sec. of State. He could not perceive how the reciprocal services of the militia of both countries could augment our disposable force. He agreed in the applause bestowed on the troops in question, but the message was worded in such a way, that there was no understanding whether the offer had been made by all the militia, by whole regiments, or by parcels of regiments. This was a point of some importance to ascertain.Earl Darnley
 said, that as far as his recollection served, it was made by whole regiments.—"The question on the address was then put and carried without opposition.Lord Hawesbury
1059 observed, that the united Church was under obligations to the noble and learned Lord who had
1059The Bishop of St. Asaph
1054 moved the order of the day for the consideration of his Majesty's message relative to the offer of the Irish militia to extend their services to G. Britain.—The message being read, his Lordship rose and observed, that he should deem it unnecessary to trouble the House on this subject at any length, as it was an affair of a partial nature. When the measure should come in a fall and regular manner before the
1054Lord Hawkesbury
 wished that the subject should be properly understood. Was it all the militia who had offered, or some regiments, or was it some parcels of regiments?Lord Grenville
1058 observed, that as this motion did. not go to pledge the House to any thing, but was merely an address of thanks to his Majesty, stating the satisfaction of the House at the offer which had been made, he did not mean to throw any difficulty in its way. But he certainly entirely agreed in the sentiments that had been delivered by the noble Duke, (of Montrose). He was fully convinced of the impolitic and injudicious nature of introducing into the army a deliberative spirit, which had its origin in the volunteer system. Parliament was the place where deliberation ought to take place; and they ought, in the first instance, to adopt measures which it would be incumbent on the military of every description to obey, instead of having their deliberation dependent upon any voluntary offers that might be made. It was impossible certainly to withhold the highest tribute of applause from the men who had made the present patriotic, spirited, and loyal offer of an extended service. He did not at all mean to throw any reflection upon them. He most entirely concurred with what the noble Marquis (of Sligo) had said, that the two countries ought to be united closely together, not in name only, but in effect; and lie believed that the reciprocal services of the militia of both countries would be a desirable thing; but it ought to be recollected, that his Majesty's ministers had been advised to extend the services of the militia of Ireland, when they were raised at the beginning of the war, to this country. They were raised by bounty, not by ballot, but the advice was rejected. It had been said, that our hands were tied by good faith to the militia: it was true; but to whom was this owing?
1058Lord Grenville
