 The Hon. Henry Augustus Dillon  rose, and spoke as follows:—I rise, sir, for the purpose of moving an address to his majesty for the most gracious speech we have just heard. I am aware of the importance of many of the topics which, in the speech that has now been read, arc submitted to the consideration of the house. But, at the same time, I believe, that there are few-points which can disturb the unanimity which ought to prevail at this momentous crisis. Our situation requires unanimity, and therefore I trust that none will be disposed to take any unreasonable grounds of objection to the address, which I shall by.
 26 27 28 29
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —I do not, sir, conceive it necessary, at this time,
 35 36 37 38
 The Speaker  acquainted the house, that the house had this day attended his Majesty in the House of Peers, where his Majesty was pleased to make a most gracious speech from the throne; of which, to prevent mistakes, he had obtained a copy. He then proceeded to read the speech from the chair, for which we refer to our report of the proceedings of the Lords, (see p. 1.) After the speaker had finished reading the speech,
 Mr. Charles Adams. —Sir; I rise for the purpose of seconding the motion which has just been made by the hon. gent., and I do it the more readily, as the able statement which he has made renders it unnecessary for me to enter upon the subject of his majesty's speech at any length. Sufficient has been said to justify the concurrence of this house in the motion that has just now been submitted to them. At a time when we are engaged in a war about matters of the highest moment, at a time when our enemies have menaced us with invasion, and when their schemes have been rendered abortive only by the persevering zeal of our countrymen, and our
 30 31
 Mr. Fox  rose and spoke to the following purport: It is not my intention, sir, to trouble the house for any long time upon this occasion, for I certainly do not mean to move an amendment to the address now proposed, nor to advert to any but a few parts of it; but I wish to make a few observations on what appear to me to be two considerable omissions in his majesty's speech; for there is one part of the address on which I do not know how, uninformed is we are at present, we can give an opinion; although, perhaps, there would be no material difference of sentiment, if we understood it, but of which, without information, we cannot judge. I allude to that part of the address in which we say we approve of his majesty's determination not to explain himself further to us on an interesting subject, until he has had intercourse with certain powers. Now, it does not appear to me, I confess, upon the first view of it, that there was any necessity of entering into, that sort of explanation. It may be necessary, or wise, for his majesty to express his wishes for peace, and to communicate to the world that he is willing to enter into the discussion of, and to accede to such terms as were likely, or which ought to produce it; but, when he says he cannot enter into such considerations, until he has consulted certain courts, I do not see how we can approve of this conduct, until we know what is the nature of the intercourse between this Country and the continental powers. Now, though if this were understood generally, or if I understood it, there would probably be no difference of opinion, yet as I do not know, and am not permitted to know, those circumstances, which call for intercourse with other powers, I must think feat the address pledges the house to too much; that it pledges it to approbation of the determination not to explain at present the nature of the communications in question. But as to this explanation in itself, I, for one, must confess that I see no necessity for any explanation, but what appears already on the face of the speech: for his majesty there expresses himself clearly, making professions of a wish for peace. His majesty says directly, that he entertains this wish, but can give no fur-
 32 33 34
 Mr. Fox,  in explanation why he had not brought forward the subject of catholic emancipation, stated, that it was perfectly well understood that any man bringing forward this question unconnected with govt. would have had very little chance of gaining the object. It was, besides, very doubtful how far the measure, would be acceptable to the catholic body, if not taken up, as a matter of justice and policy, by the executive govt.
 Mr. Windham  vindicated the conduct of his hon. friend (Mr. Fox) as perfectly consistent. He had not brought forward the subject of catholic emancipation during the existence of a cabinet avowedly hostile to that measure; nay, whose very elevation to power was founded on their opposition to it; but it was very different when the cabinet professed a desire to have this measure brought about, and when the person at the head of the cabinet had given an open avowed opinion in favour both of its policy and its justice. This was sufficient to justify the consistency of his hon. friend in recommending the subject to the right hon. gent, at the present moment.—But, leaving this topic, the right hon. gent, proceeded to make some observations on the information conveyed by the speech, respecting the state of our continental connections. He was free to acknowledge, that he thought the information on this subject extremely scanty and unsatisfactory. He had expected and hoped something distinct and specific, but he had been disappointed. The house were indeed told of the wise and dignified manifestation of the interest entertained by the Emperor of Russia for the independence of the continent; but the
 39 40 had sufficient 41 42 ncm. con.
 Lord W. Russel  presented a petition from the proprietors of the Surry Iron Railway; ordered to be referred to a committee.—The committees of religion, grievances, courts of justice, trade, and privileges were appointed—The standing orders of the house were read as usual at the commencement of every session.—Mr. Dillon brought up the report of the address to his majesty on his speech from the throne, which was read and agreed to, and ordered to be presented by the whole house, and that such members as are of the privy council do wait on his majesty, to inquire when he will be pleased to receive the same.—Ordered, that his majesty's speech be taken into consideration to-morrow.—Mr. Williams presented the ninth report of the commissioners of naval inquiry; ordered to lie on the table, and to be printed.
 Mr. Francis  adverted to a motion which he had made in the course of the last sessions, for the production of certain papers respecting the war in India, and which was not complied with, as the papers were not then arrived to which his motion referred. Understanding now, that those papers were received, the hon. member submitted a motion, that there should be laid before the house copies of all treaties, engagements, and correspondence, as have taken place between the governments of Bengal, Fort St. George, and Bombay, and any of the surviving Mahometan princes or states, in the upper part of India, particularly with the king or mogul, at Delhi, or his ministers. —Ordered accordingly. —Mr. Francis also gave notice, that he would, on Monday next, move for the production of some farther papers with respect to the war in India, After the two distinguished chiefs, Scindiah, and the Rajah of Berar, had been conquered by our arms, and a treaty concluded with them; after India was understood to be completely tranquillized,
 44
 Lord Vis. Stopford  reported to the house, that his majesty having been waited upon, to know when he would be pleased to receive their address, had appointed that day at three o'clock, at his palace of St. James.—Mr. Huskisson Moved, that his majesty's speech be taken into consideration. —The Speaker read,  pro forma,
 Lord Castlereagh  had no objection to the production of the papers the hon. gent, had referred to, but was sorry the hon. gent, had introduced other circumstances that were not necessarily connected with the motion. The observations he had thrown out respecting the defeat of that unfortunate detachment went, the house would feel, to involve the character of an officer, whose conduct was now the subject of military inquiry. But, considering this event in a more general view, he did not see that it afforded so much room for complaint as the hon. gent. would, have us believe. Great successes had been obtained in other quarters, which much more than counterbalanced that unfortunate circumstance. The hon. gent, had also gone out of his way in the observations he had made respecting the territories that had been ceded as indemnities, and the sums granted to a prince of the Guzzerat. These, the noble lord thought, would come more properly under discussion when the India budget should be submitted to the house. He had no objection, however, that the house should be in possession of all the information the hon. gent. could wish. Indeed, the qualification the hon. gent, himself had annexed to his motion, removed every objection that could be made to it, as he wishes only to have such papers as may not interfere with the arrangements of govt. or put them in an awkward predicament in regard to the quarter from which they may have received secret information.
 Mr. Francis.  I beg leave to assure the house that I had no thoughts of reflecting
 51
 Mr. Francis. —Sir; the motion which I mean to submit to the house will not make it necessary for me to trouble you with many reasons in support of it, or for more than a few minutes; and, indeed, it appeared to me so much a matter of course, that I should not have thought it required a previous notice, but for a suggestion which I am always desirous to comply with. In the course of the last session, the house thought fit to order a great variety of papers to be laid before them, to explain the causes of the war which began in 1803, against two of the principal Mahratta chiefs, Scindia and Boosla. By the papers before the house it appears, that those chiefs were subdued and reduced to submission, and that treaties of peace had been signed with them about the close of the same year; and it was natural to conclude that there was an end of the war in India. Nothing could be more improbable than that any of the remaining Mahratta powers should take up the contest, where
 49 50
 Mr. Windham  said, that he had given notice of a motion for Monday next, to inquire into the state of the military defence of the country; but, it having been intimated to him, from the other side of the house, that it would be desirable to leave that day entirely open for the discussion of the Spanish business, he had no objection to postpone his motion to some future day, say Monday se'enight, which he hoped would be convenient. As, for the complete elucidation of the subject which he intended to bring before the house, it would be necessary to move for a variety of papers and accounts, he should take an opportunity of doing that to-morrow. The object of his motion for these papers was, that the house might be enabled to ascertain the increase of our military force within a certain period; and as he intended to include in his motion accounts of every species of our military force; regulars, militia, volunteers, &c. he thought it would be the most advisable plan to move for several distinct statements, so that should an objection be made to the production of any part of these papers, the house would not be prevented from being put in possession of the remainder.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he had not, for his own part, any very material objection to lay before the house an account of the total amount of our public force, and to the propositions which had been submitted by the right hon. gent, he had no objection whatever; on the contrary, it was his wish, that the house should be in full possession of all the particulars to which those propositions referred, before it proceeded to the discussion of the subject which the right hon. gent, had announced his intention of bringing forward.
 The Chanc of the Exchequer  stated, that the papers to which the hon. gent, alluded, required more time to print for the use of the house than he was at first aware of, but that they would be laid on the table to-morrow. As those papers were very voluminous, and as it was desirable that the house should have full time to consider their contents, the right hon. gent, thought it advisable not to bring forward the discussion of the subject as early as he originally intended, but would appoint Thursday, the 31st inst. for that purpose.—Adjourned.
 Mr. Fox  expressed a-wish to know when the papers relative to the negotiation of govt. with Spain, previous to the war, would be laid before the house; and also what, day it was the intention of the right hon. the Ch. of the Excheq. to appoint for the discussion of the subject In which those papers referred.
 Mr. Windham  rose, and said, that although previous to a general inquiry into the military situation of the country, he thought that an account of the army, in all its branches, would have been more desirable; yet he had at present confined the motions that be had to offer to such branches only as were most immediately connected with the subject of the inquiry. He had already shewn die motions that he intended to make, and he was glad to find they would
 56 57
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed a wish, that the hon. member would postpone his motions till Monday, on the ground that it might be necessary to consider how far it would be proper to comply with them, consistently with the public service.—The motions were then noticed for Monday.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  next intimated an opinion, that it would be desirable to have the object of the hon. gent's other motions more specifically stated, in order to afford an opportunity of considering them, previous to their being submitted to the house.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then rose, and observed, that it would be highly expedient, before the question should come to be discussed, to have a complete view of the aggregate military force of the country, in one connected account. He wished gentlemen to be put in possession of the most satisfactory and comprehensive information on the subject, and with a view to that object, should move, "that there be laid before the house, an account of the total amount of his maj.'s regular, militia, and provincial forces, on the 1st of Jan. 1804, and the 1st of Jan. 1805, respectively, distinguishing the limited from the unlimited force, and cavalry from infantry; and also those serving in G. Brit. Ireland, and the islands of Guernsey and Jersey, and those serving in guards and garrisons abroad. Ordered.
 Mr. Grey  then rose, for the purpose of giving notice of several motions, which it was his intention to submit to the house on Monday. After all the attention which it had been in his power to bestow on the papers relative to the new war in which we were now unfortunately engaged, in the short period since they had been distributed, it appeared to him, that there were many important omissions, which it was material to have supplied before the main question should be discussed, and to enable the house to form a just and impartial opinion on the merits of the case. It could not be denied, that on so solemn and momentous a question, every information ought to be given to parliament, as far as it might be consistent with the interests of the public service. It was with a view, therefore, to supply the omissions which appeared to him in the papers laid before the house, that he proposed to bring forward the motions of which he then gave notice. The
 143
 Mr. Grey,  in explanation of his object,
 144
 Mr. Mitford,  from the commissioners of the customs in Scotland, presented at the bar, an account of custom duties charged and out-standing on bond or otherwise, on 5th April, 1803 and 4; and of all ships from Scotland employed in the whale fishery to Davis's Straits and the Greenland seas. Ordered to lie on the table, and to be printed.—He afterwards presented an account of the duties of excise in Scotland, out-standing on bond or otherwise, on 5th April, 1803 and 4. Ordered to be printed.—Also, an abstract of the account from the commissioners of the Northern light-houses. Ordered to lie on the table.—Sir E. Nepean gave notice, that he would, on Monday, move for the continuance of the suspension of the habeas corpus and of martial law in Ireland.—Mr. Alexander brought up the insolvent debtors' bill, which was read a 1st and 2d time, and committed for Monday.—On the motion of Mr. S. Bourne, a new writ was ordered for the county of Hertford, in room of the hon. P. Lamb, deceased.—A petition of the there-undersigned was presented to the house, and read; setting forth, "that the petitioners, at Michaelmas, 1801, entered upon the office of sheriffs of London, and sheriffs of the county of Middlesex, and continued in the discharge of the same till Michaelmas, 1S02; and that, during their continuance in the same, they did, by virtue of their said offices, and at a great expence, trouble, and inconvenience to themselves, preside, and were returning officers at three different strongly contested and protracted polls, namely, the election of a bridge-master, the election of four citizens to represent the said city of London, and the election of two knights of the shire to represent the said county of Middlesex in this present parliament; and at the close pf the said sheriffalty, the livery of the said city of London came to the following resolution, in a meeting or assembly of the mayor and liverymen of the several com-
 134 Resolved unanimously. 135 136 137 138 139 140 141
 Mr. Windham  rose for the purpose of making a motion, to which, he trusted, there could be no objection. It referred to a point upon which, when he brought forward his motions a few days since, it was his wish to have obtained full and distinct information. He was still of opinion, that it would be necessary to procure information separately on this head, in order to enable the house, when the situation of the military circumstances of the country should come to be discussed, to form a clear and impartial opinion upon it. He had been led to give up this motion by a spirit of accommodation to the right hon. gent. on the other side of the house, and to generalise the motions he on that occasion submitted; but as it often happened, that whilst acting under such an impulse, a man might concede more than upon reflection he would deem consistent with prudence or discretion, he proposed in the present instance, to correct his former omission by a specific motion. His object in making it was, to ascertain the number of men that had been raised in col. French's levy. He was aware, that as his former motions took in the new levies in England, Ireland, and Scotland, it might be said that his present motion was included in one of them. But* as the only inconve-
 142
 Mr. Estcourt  took the oaths and his seat for Devizes, in the room of the right hon. H. Addington, created viscount Sidmouth.—Mr. Irwin, inspector general of exports and imports, presented at the bar, an account of the exports to the ports of Spain, during the years 1803 and 1804, as far as the same can be made up.—Mr. Cooke, from the exchequer bill office, brought up an Account of the unfunded debt in exchequer bills outstanding on the 5th of Jan. 1805.—Sir E. Nepean postponed the motion of which he had given notice for this day, relative to the continuing the suspension of the habeas corpus act, and martial law in Ireland, to a future day.—The insolvent debtors' bill was committed, read a third time and passed, and returned to the lords.—Mr. Alexander brought up the land and malt bill, and the bill for continuing the duties on pensions, tobacco, snuff, &c. which, were severally read a 1st, and ordered to be read a 2d time to-morrow.—A message from the lords informed the house, that their 1dps. requested the house would give leave to sir T. Featherstone, bart. the hon. G. L. Cole, sir James Stewart, bart. and M. Archdall, esq. to attend the lords, in order to be examined as witnesses before the committee appointed to consider the matters alleged against Mr. Justice Fox, on the 18th Feb. next. The speaker, after putting the question to the
 147
 The Secretary at War  presented the army estimates for 1805, with the exception of some papers relative to the volunteer service, and to the barrack department, which could not be made out in time. He observed, that as the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Windham) whose motion on the military state of the country stood for Monday, had consented, with a view to facilitate the dispatch of public business, to postpone it for a few days, he would move that the papers he had just presented to the house should be taken into consideration on Monday next. Agreed to.
 Col. Cakraft  wished to have the estimates printed, as otherwise it was impossible that they could be completely understood by every member of the house, on account of the difficulty that would occur from every member perusing one manuscript account.
 The Secretary at War  said, that he was extremely unwilling that any proper information should be withheld from the house; but he suggested, that the printing of these papers would take up so much time, that little opportunity of examining them would be afforded previous to the discussion.
 The Secretary at War  said, that it was never the custom to have them printed. The usual mode of proceeding was to lay the estimates on the table, and move for their discussion the week after. As he did not, however, wish to withhold any information from the house, he would not object to the printing. The papers were accordingly ordered to be printed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose. He said, he allowed, that every means which would enable the house to discuss mope completely the weighty question which was soon to be submitted to it, was of importance; and in this view he was willing to consider the motions which the
 153
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the house that he had not the slightest objection to the production of such a paper if such a paper could be found; but he could not omit the present opportunity of stating, that whatever might have been asserted by the Spanish minister, or however inadvertently the term may have been used by Mr. Frere, it was certain that no such compact, or convention, respecting the Spanish neutrality, had been in any shape entered into. There was not a single note, letter, or word of explanation which at all even alluded to any such compact.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had before expressed his willingness to give the house all possible information on this subject, but he again assured them, that all the information that govt. could afford them, was already in their possession. However the Spanish minister or Mr. Frere may have dwelt on the word convention, there was no paper or document whatever that bore the slightest reference to such an agreement; there never had been in any shape whatever any recognizance of a treaty of neutrality with Spain. Such a treaty had never existed; and it was merely the expression of his maj.'s inclination to forbear from hostilities against Spain, while she conducted herself within certain limits to which this term convention could have been applied by the Spanish court. Strange as it might appear, it seemed highly probable that the Spanish govt. had confounded this expression of a desire to forbear from hostilities on his maj.'s part to the nominal treaty of neutrality they about that time entered into with France, and chose to give the common name convention to both.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  maintained, that those expressions alluded solely to the treaty which Spain had entered into with France, and not to any engagements with this country.—The motion was then put and agreed to.—On the motion in which Mr. Grey wished to know the periods at which Adm. Cochrane's letters from Ferrol were received, the Chanc. of the Excheq. observed, that that point would be sufficiently ascertained on the production of other papers that has been moved for by the hon. gent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it would undoubtedly be impossible that the papers then ordered should be printed and presented in time to afford any light on the discussion then standing for Thursday; and as it was desirable that every information should be communicated to the house previous to that discussion, in order to enable them to come to an impartial 'decision on the whole merits of the case, he was of opinion, that the question fixed for that day's discussion should be deferred to some subsequent open day. The right hon. gent, afterwards moved, that the papers presented, and to be presented to the house, relative to the Spanish war, be taken into consideration on Thursday se'n-night. Ordered.—Adjourned.
 Mr. Fox  said, he should urge nothing further on the subject at present; but on the face of it certainly it seemed to require a great deal of explanation.
 Mr. Fox  thought this part of the subject of infinite importance. From what he could understand of it the Spanish minister had given to something that had passed between the two courts, the name of convention, and this name Mr. Frere, in his subsequent discussions with that minister, is said to have used inadvertently. Though he could not conceive the probability of
 154
 Mr. Grey  expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the assurance of the right hon. gent, he wished the spirit of his motions to be adhered to rather than the letter.—The motions were put separately and agreed to, until that for laying before the house any compact or convention of neutrality that might have been entered into with Spain. On this being put,
 Mr. Grey  rose and stated, that as he by no means wished to anticipate the full discussion of the Spanish business, which was so soon to take place, and as he understood that no material objections were likely to be made to the motions which he was about to submit to the house, he should not occupy their time with many preparatory remarks. During the long negotiation which had preceded our rupture with Spain, much must have passed of which the house were yet ignorant. In the official correspondence that had been laid before them, there were numerous chasma which he wished to see supplied, and it was for this purpose that he had prepared the motions which he had prepared the motions which he now held in his hand. When our govt. received the first information of the pecuniary succours afforded by Spain to France, it must have been productive of minute instructions to our ambassador at Madrid, and of considerable discussions with the Spanish govt. His first motion,
 150 151 152
 Mr. Grey  observed, that it certainly seemed very extraordinary that Mr. Frere, who must have been aware of the full meaning of the word, should still have continued to make use of it so repeatedly. There was an ambiguity about this circumstance which he could not explain. The hon. gent, here read several passages from Mr. Frere's correspondence, in order to prove that Mr. Frere had used the term convention in a decided manner; particularly at the conclusion of Mr. Frere's note of the 30th Oct. he says, "he has
 155
 Mr. Grey  then remarked, that the papers which had been ordered, would take up some time to prepare and print, before they could be presented to the house. As he did not think it likely that they would be in the possession of gent, in sufficient tithe before Thursday, to allow them to derive any benefit from the information they might contain, in the discussion that was fixed for that day, he was sure it would be a convenience to the house, to be informed, on what day it was the intention of the right hon. gent, that the discussion on the papers should take place.
 Col. Calcraft  observed, that in that case some degree of blame attached to the secretary at war for not bringing them in sooner. If the public service absolutely required that they should be discussed on Monday next, and if they could not conveniently be printed before that time, then be would acquiesce. But they certainly ought to have been presented in proper time to have them printed. It was impossible that the members of the house could accurately examine their contents while they lay unprinted on the table, and he should therefore think it his duty to persevere in his intention of moving chat they should be printed, unless it was positively 6tated, that this would be injurious to the public service.
 Mr. Creevey  brought up a petition from certain freeholders of the county of Middlesex, claiming to have had a right to vote at the last election for that county, setting forth that at the last election of a knight of the shire for the county of Middlesex, sir F. Burdett, bart. and G. B. Mainwaring, esq. were candidates to represent the same county in parliament; that, on the shew of hands, the then sheriff declared the majority to be in favor of the said sir F. Burdett; that thereupon a poll was duly demanded in favor of the said G. B. Mainwaring, and was proceeded on from day to day; that, at the close of the said election, the said sheriff returned the said G. B. B. Mainwaring as duly elected to represent the said county in parliament; that, after the demanding the said poll, and previously to the granting thereof, or proceeding on the same, the qualification of the said G. B. Mainwaring to represent the said county in parliament, was duly requested of him, and the said G. B. Mainwaring was thereby required to swear to the same, according to the provisions of the statute in that behalf made and provided: that, on such request being made, the said G. B. Mainwaring insisted that the provisions of the said act of parliament above referred to, did not extend to him, he being the eldest son and heir apparent of a person qualified by the said statute to serve as a knight of a shire; but, immediately afterwards, the said G. B. Mainwaring took his corporal oath, in the form, and to the effect, prescribed by the said statute, and swore that he truly and  bonâ fide 148
 Mr. Bulley,  from the exchequer, presented an account of the nett produce of the permanent taxes for the year ending 5th Jan. 1805. Ordered to be printed.—Mr. Pole presented the ordnance estimates for the year 1805; and gave notice, that he should move them in the committee of supply on Monday.— Lord W. Russell brought in a bill for raising a further sum of money for the prosecution of the Surrey iron railway. Read a 1st time, and ordered to be read a 2nd time.—On the motion of Mr. Long, it was ordered that the house should, at its rising, adjourn till Thursday, Wednesday
 159
 The Speaker  called the attention of the house to the course of proceeding which the noble lord had announced his intention of adopting. In every part of that course the noble lord proposed to act consistently with the accustomed order of the house, with the exception of omitting to move for the production of evidence at the bar. This was a departure from the usage observed in the precedents which, according to the motion of the noble lord, had been read by the clerk; and also from that which had been attended to in another instance, since these precedents had occurred. From a just solicitude for the important privileges and order of the house, lie felt it his duty to notice the proposed deviation; at the same time he ob-
 162
 Lord Marsham  stated, in reply to the hon. gent, that the question brought before the house for consideration was this., whether, from the whole body of evidence contained in the printed report on the table, and which comprehended the fullest information on both sides of the case, the committee was justified in the inference they made, and in the opinion they had pronounced upon the parties accused, and also whether any proceeding should be instituted grounded on such opinion. The noble lord repeated his objections to the farther examination of evidence.—The resolutions were then put and carried.—Adrjourned;
 Lord Marsham  moved, that the order of the day should be read for considering the report of the committee on the conduct of sir W Rawlins, knt. and R. Albion Cox, late sheriffs of the county of Middlesex, relative to their conduct at the election, in which W. Mainwaring, esq. and sir F. Burdett, bart. were the candidates for that county. After the order of the day was read, the clerk, on the motion of his 1dp. read the resolutions of the committee contained in the said report, and which were in effect as follows: "1. That it appears to this committee, that, on the 13th, 14th, and 15th days of the poll, on the first of which days there was a considerable majority of votes in favour of W. Mainwaring, esq. the sheriff, R. A. Cox, esq. and sir W. Rawlins, knt. wilfully, knowingly, and corruptly, did admit to poll for sir F. Burdett, bart. upwards of 300 persons, claiming to vote under a fictitious right as proprietors of a mill purported to be situate in the parish of Isleworth, and called the Good Intent Mill, by which means a colourable majority was obtained in favour of sir F. Burdett, who was thereby returned as having the greatest number of legal votes. 2. That it appeals to this committee, that, on the 15th day, towards the close of the poll, after such majority was established, they rejected persons tendering their votes under the same circumstances. 3d, That it appears to this committee, that the sheriff at the poll acted in a judicial capacity, by admitting counsel to argue the validity of votes, and by deciding in some instances on the validity of such votes; that in other instances they refused to decide on the validity of votes which were objected to, and stated, that
 160
 Lord Marsham  said, he proposed, in conformity with these precedents, to move four resolutions. 1st, That the charge should be heard at the bar. 2nd, That it should be heard on Friday, Feb. 1. 3d, That the sheriffs, sir W. Rawlins, and R. A. Cox, esq. be ordered to attend. 4th, That the said sir W. Rawlins, and R. A. Cox, esq. be furnished with a copy of the charge, and heard by counsel.— The noble lord observed, that he proposed an early day for the discussion of this business, as it was desirable that a question of so much importance, which had stood over so long, should be determined as soon as possible; and also, as he understood, that it would be attended with no inconvenience to the parties concerned, but rather agreeable to their wishes to expedite the discussion. Agreeably to the precedents already referred to, the house would perceive that it was usual to move that evidence should be heard at the bar upon such an accusation; but to that part of the course of proceeding the noble lord did not think it at all necessary to adhere upon the present occasion, because the report on the table contained a very full account of all the evidence which related to the conduct of the sheriffs; that account was taken in short hand by a person sworn to report it with fidelity, the several witnesses were interrogated by the members of the committee, who were also on their oaths, and they underwent an ample cross-examination by counsel of the highest ability employed by the accused. The circumstances of the case were therefore already before the house, and there was no necessity for the further examination of any evidence on the subject. An objection, indeed, offered against the further production of evidence, from this consideration, that witnesses not being examined on oath at the bar of the house as
 161
 Mr. Francis  rose to ask, for information sake, for what purpose the business was at all brought before the house for consideration, if evidence was not to be examined; or upon what question the house was called on to decide? If the subject was not to be investigated at the bar the house would have nothing left to do but to adopt the opinion and recommendation of the committee; and there could be no use for the hearing of counsel. But he trusted this measure would be differently considered; for if the course proposed by the noble lord were followed, it did not appear to him that any question would remain for the discretion of the house.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, hot to make any objection to the noble lord's motion, nor to delay the house now by any argument upon the subject itself. He rose merely to express his sentiments in the first instance, respecting a principle avowed by the hon. gent, ever against him (Mr. Fox), namely, that the house, when called on to exercise its jurisdiction on this subject, should not be satisfied with the evidence taken elsewhere, but should examine evidence for its own satisfaction. Against such a principle he begged to protest, in the first instance, as contrary to the established usage of parliament, always before, and ever since the passing of Mr. Grenville's act in the year 1770: Previously to that time, it was the constant usage of the house, in deciding upon matters respecting contested elections, to form its judgment upon evidence taken before its' committees, and not to examine evidence to the same points at its bar. The Grenville act created the first alteration in the law and usage of parliament upon this head; and it must be recollected, that a. principal alteration made by that act was, that the committees for investigating such questions must be chosen by ballot, must examine all evidence on oath, and must themselves be sworn to act and decide justly, to the best of their opinion. The house then surely, would not be less inclined to accept the evidence taken before a committee so solemnly bound, now, than they would be to accept evidence before a committee not so bound, previously to the passing of the Grenville act. The precedents only in which the house did act in any degree at all different from this principle, were the Shoreham case, the Liskeard, and the Great Grimsby. In the Cricklade case some such proceeding was proposed, and the house adjourned the consideration of that case from time to time, in order to
 170
 Mr. Fox  rose, not he said to object to the day proposed, but to state, in a few words, his own opinion as to the mode of proceeding suggested by the noble lord. The noble lord had said it was not the intention to examine any witnesses at the bar on this subject: but he trusted, whenever that house was called on to exercise a jurisdiction, a criminal jurisdiction too, that it would found its decisions on evidence which it had itself heard, and not merely upon the evidence heard by others elsewhere. If, indeed, as he understood, from the noble lord's intimation, the late sheriffs had no objection to admit the evidence before a committee against them, certainly there could be no objection, on the part of the house, to accept that evidence as part of the grounds for its own decisions. But not calling evidence as to any thing already proved before a committee, and calling no evidence to their exculpation now, were, in his own mind, two very distinct considerations. He was decidedly of opinion, that if any matters had come to their knowledge for their own exculpation, even since the decision of the committee, it would be perfectly open for them to bring forward such evidence.
 Lord Marsham  answered, that when he
 169
 Lord Marsham  rose and said, that he stated on a former day, his intention of submitting to the house, this day, the manner in which he would proceed upon this subject. It was then his intention, he said, to examine witnesses at the bar on the part of the late sheriffs. But since that time, he understood those gent. had altered their mind, and did not mean to call any witnesses. In order, therefore, to give the house time to form the fullest opinion upon the evidence before them, on this subject, he trusted it would not be deemed inconvenient, if he moved to postpone the farther consideration of the business till Tuesday next; conceiving as he did, and as he was convinced the house must, that a deliberate decision would be an object much more desirable than any expedition that could be accomplished by deciding this night. He therefore moved, "that the farther proceedings on this subject be postponed till Tuesday."
 Mr. Francis  thought, that evidence, ought, in every judicial proceeding, to be heard before the judges. This would be a great satisfaction to the house; and be was at present inclined to think that gent, could not, in honour and justice, decide upon a penal case without hearing evidence at the bar. He hoped, therefore, that before Tuesday, the house would deeply reflect upon a question which, independent of the present case, was in itself of so much importance.—The order, of the day was then postponed till Tuesday next.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  said, this commission did not answer either to the description given of it in the motion, or to that which the hon. gent. gave in the observation with which he prefaced the motion. The hon. gent. had described the commission as giving large and discretionary powers: it gave no such powers, it limited precisely the powers it gave, and the objects of those powers. The commissioners were only impowered to digest and report to the admiralty the beat means
 224
 The Chanc. of tie Excheq.  said, if any motion were to be made on this subject, it would be perfectly competent to the hon. gent. to make it now. It happened that Mr. Fordyce was one of the persons to whom the commission lately adverted to by the hon. gent. was issued, as one of the fittest persons to carry it into execution; and he had no doubt of his appearing blameless, with respect to the deficiency the hon. gent. meant to make the subject of his motion.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  replied, that there were some more papers to be delivered, and that he expected them every minute. The hon. gent. would then be better able to judge, whether there still remained any deficiency or not.
 The Chanc. of the Exchequer  said, that in the vote for the regular army, the regiments were placed so high, that even should the proposed transfer of the militia immediately take place, their establishments would still be incomplete; therefore there would be no necessity for any additional allowance such as the hon. gent. referred to.—The motion was agreed to.—Upon the proposition for allowance to innkeepers being submitted,
 The Secretary at War  said, that the barracks alluded to were constructed for the accommodation of the troops, because, from circumstances, no better could be provided. It was advisable that the troops should remain on the coast during winter, and from June till Nov. there was not time sufficient for the building any other than those temporary barracks.
 The Secretary at War  said, that if the ion. member would confer with him in private upon the subject he alluded to, he should be happy to pay him every attention in his power, and if the proposition he recommended should be found advisable, to promote its adoption. If, how-ever, the conversation should produce in his mind a contrary impression, it would still be open to the hon. member to bring forward a motion on the subject himself.— Upon the vote for the barracks being proposed,
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  said, the papers he expected to present this day would afford as good answers as could be given to the inquiries of the hon. gent. There were
 228
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  presented to the house some further papers relative to the war with Spain; which were ordered to lie on the table, and to be printed. The following are correct copies of the said papers:
 The Secretary at War  said, it became his duty to call the attention of the house to
 248 l. l. l. l. 249 l. l. 
 
 NUMBERS £. s. d. 
 Guards, Garrisons, &c. 143,920 4,945,920 12 8 
 Forces in the Plantations, &c. 46,952 1,424,920 11 7 
 General and staff officers, with a state of the particulars of the charge 288,858 3 2 
 India forces 20,145 471,461 0 11 
 Troops and companies for recruiting ditto 460 25,410 18 4 
 Recruiting and contingencies 175,866 7 8 
 Embodied militia and fencible infantry 163,328 2,663,751 18 2 
 Contingencies for ditto 65,692 6 2 
 Clothing for ditto 198,793 0 0 
 Full pay to supernumerary officers 34,469 6 8 
 Offices 191,838 8 10 
 Allowance to innkeep-kcepers, &c. 476,699 5 0 
 Half pay and military allowances 181,288 16 5 
 do. American forces 50,000 0 0 
 do. Scotch brigade 1,000 0 0 
 In-pensioners of Chelsea and Kilmainhan hospitals 53,227 19 5 
 Out-pensioners of ditto 196,169 11 11 
 Widows' pensions 29,237 19 5 
 Foreign corps 17,386 851,350 6 4 
 Hospital expences (Ireland 20,522 11 10 
 Royal military college (with the general staff and particulars of the senior and junior departments) 13,315 6 4 
 Royal military asylum 23,458 6 1 
 Barrack department (Ireland) 483,698 11 8 
 332,191 12,866,951 8 7 
 Deduct the India force 20,145 471,461 0 11 
 Total 312,046 12,395,490 7 8
 The Secretary at War  declared, that though he could not precisely state their number, he was sure they were far above what the hon. gent, had represented.—The motion was then put and agreed to.—Upon the resolution respecting officers of the staff,
 Col. Carlcraft  said, it was not his wish unnecessarily to delay or interrupt the committee, but he could not suffer this item "in the estimate to pass unnoticed. The charge for general officers, he said, was most enormous; and how such a number could be deemed necessary, he was utterly at a loss to account. In England there were, he observed, no less than 136 general officers; in Scotland 17; in Ireland 57; which, with one in Guernsey, and another in Jersey, made the whole number no less than 212; a thing, he said, quite unparalleled in the history of the country, in any age; and the necessity for which, it would have become the right hon. gent, to have explained in a less summary way than he had been pleased to do. With respect to the volunteer force of the country, it was said, that a great number of staff officers were necessary to attend to their discipline; but to his knowledge, those corps for some lime past had been by no means so numerous on their parades, or in the field, as heretofore; and it appeared to him, that a great many more people were employed to attend to those corps that were at all necessary.
 The Secretary at War  replied, that the hon. gent, enjoyed an opportunity on the present occasion, in combating those items in his estimates from the aid. of a printed estimate, which he would hot have had but for his good nature in acceding to the motion for that purpose on a former night; as this was almost the only instance of
 251
 Col. Carlcraft  replied, that as long as he had a seat in that house, he should feel it his right and his duty to exact, either from the good nature of the right hon. gent, or any other who might fill his station, or from the authoritative influence of the house, the production of printed estimates; for when so enormous a portion of the public money was to be voted, he thought the house had as good right to examine printed estimates, as upon any other head of public expenditure.
 The Secetary at War,  in reply, said, that the troops were independent of the Company's forces; and that as far as he could understand, the numbers of the regiments were nearly complete.
 The Chanc. of the Exchequer  stated, as the ground of this particular arrangement, that in the circumstances of the country it might have been necessary to collect a large body of troops to a particular point, and that large bodies of troops could not be marched on such service, without the assistance of brig, generals. Whilst there was such a case to be looked to, it was deemed right not to wait for their appointment till the moment when their services would be necessary, but to make the appointments some time before the occasion would be likely to arrive. As the defence of the country would ultimately depend, in a considerable degree, on the efficiency of the volunteers, he was sure the house would not feel indisposed to agree to any expenditure that was to be directed to that object. From the latest returns that had been received, it appeared, that the volunteers amounted to more than 325,000 effective men. Of that number 240,000 had been inspected, and were reported by the proper officers effective, and fit for immediate service. About 40,000 only remained yet to be in? spected. After such a representation, he was confident the house would not consider the sum of 50,000 l.
 The Secretary at War  then moved, that the sum of 2,663,751 l.
 Col. Carlcraft  said, that although the right hon. gent. had stated, in his opening, that it was intended to reduce the militia, yet the vote proposed was for the provision of the present establishment. He wished, therefore, to know whether any reduction of the militia was intended immediately to take place?
 The Chanc. of the Exchequer  took this opportunity of stating, that it was in the contemplation of his maj.'s govt. to bring forward, without delay, a plan for more speedily transferring to the regular army a
 254
 Mr. Fox  strongly contended for the importance of having such explanations as look place at different conferences alluded to in the dispatches laid before the house. The explanations contained in the conferences of the 9th and the 30th of March, must, from the language of the letter of the 1st of May, have been highly interesting, and ought, by all means, to be produced. The chanc. of the excheq. had indeed stated, that mere notes, presented by an ambassador, perhaps merely offering a private opinion, and not authorized by his court, could not afford any information to the house. He, for his part, begged leave to argue that this was not a fair view of the subject. It was not possibe to conceive from the language of the Spanish ambassador, when alluding to explanations which had taken place at conferences, that he delivered in unauthorized notes. It was, on the contrary, quite evident that he alluded to authorized explanations, in which he laid down the principles and views of his court. It was impossible to believe that the notes which passed on such occasion were uninteresting. The presumption was certainly directly the reverse, and the house ought to have an opportunity of exercising their judgment on the subject. He was therefore anxious for the production, of all such explanations as would tend to
 229
 Mr. Grey  argued, that the notes given in by the Spanish ambassador at the conferences alluded to, were, if not official, at most, important documents. They were representations of the principles and policy of the Spanish govt. and in that light were highly requisite to guide the judgment of the house. That they were merely minutes and not signed in the usual diplomatic, style was a matter of no consideration. Their spirit was not on account of their form at all affected. He should therefore, to-morrow, move for copies of the notes delivered, and of explanations which took place at those conferences to which the Spanish ambassador in his letters alluded. Here the discussion terminated, and shortly after,
 Mr. Grey,  after all the information which the papers already moved for contained, still expressed himself of opinion that there were several important deficiencies to be supplied, and points of the highest consequence to be explained. The deficiencies at present existing, were of papers from the office of the sec, for the foreign department, and the board of admiralty. Of the latter he should, at present, say nothing, because all the papers he had moved for were not yet produced, and till they were on the table, he could not ascertain to what extent the deficiency of evidence existed. As to the deficiencies from
 225 226 227
 Mr. Grey  rose to inquire whether anymore papers were to be laid before the house, in addition to the two sets which had already been delivered? There still appeared to him to be a very great deficiency in those popers, and he wished to know whether this deficiency was likely to be supplied by the production of any additional papers?
 Mr. Kinnaird  congratulated the house upon the acquisition of a secretary at war, who possessed not only so much good nature as the right hon. gent, but so much of another quality, which he should not name, as to boast of it. However, he himself concurred in opinion with the hon. member who spoke last, that a great deal of unnecessary expence was lavished in the pay of inspecting brigadiers to the volunteer corps; and these, too, were always at variance with the old field officers appointed to superintend those corps; so that it was to be apprehended, their disputes would at length break out into something extremely serious to the public service. Brigadier-.generals might have been wisely appointed in the first instance, but it would be very unwise to continue them when they could be no longer serviceable.
 Mr. Kinnaird,  adverting to the temporary barracks erected on the coast, stated, that he understood them to be very unfit for the residence of the troops. He therefore wished to know whether it was meant to continue the use of those barracks, and whether, among the provision far bar-jacks, those were included? If so, he should certainly object to them; and if no specific account of the expence of those barracks was before the house, he should move for it.
 Mr. Kinnaird  expressed his sorrow for the expence incurred hi the construction of such barracks; but that expence was by no means so much the object of his consideration, as the danger likely to result to the soldiery from a residence in such places. If those barracks were not to continue any longer in use, he would not so much complain; but if the contrary was intended, he should certainly object to it.
 Mr. Johnstone  observed, that whether the proportion of the militia alluded to. should remain attached to that body, or be transferred to the regular army, an additional allowance it seemed would be necessary.
 Mr. Johnstone,  in rising to move the house on this subject, thought it sufficiently proved that he did not mean to trouble the house causelessly, when he stated, that on a ballot at the India house relative to the proposed establishment at that island, there were 325 out of 736 against the question; which was thus carried by a majority of only 86. The papers he meant to move for, were merely such as were necessary to put the house in possession of the subject. The hon. gent, then moved, for a copy of lord Castlereagh's letter, dated 9th Sept. 1804, to the chairman of the court of directors, relative to Prince of Wales's Island, with the inclosures contained in that letter; also, an estimate of the expence of building a 74-gun ship, and a 36-gun frigate at Bombay; also, copies of two letters from Sir A. S. Hammond to the chairman of the E. India comp. dated 29th and 30th Oct. 1804.; also, an account of the proceedings of the commissioners for the affairs of India, and the court of directors, respecting the Prince of Wales's Island, so far as the same may be disclosed without prejudice to the public service. Ordered.
 Col. Calcraft  compared the estimate of last year with that now under consideration, and asserted that his original statement was correct; that in the sum proposed to be voted, there was an increase beyond the vote of last year, of 134,0001. He referred to the two estimates for the proof of this difference, notwithstanding the positive assertion of the right hon. secretary at war.—The motion was agreed to.
 Mr. Fuller  took occasion to remark on the extraordinary expence to which the county he had the honour to represent, and the other counties on the coast, were subject, by the conveyance of troops, their baggage, &c. It had been observed, that no less than 80,000 men had been for some time back stationed on the coast. The expence of carriage, &c. in forwarding those troops, was paid by govt. but back carriage fell upon the counties. This had produced so severe a grievance, that the hon. member stated it to be the subject of general complaint. This was an evil which he trusted some means would be taken to remedy. He hoped that, in bringing forward the army extraordinaries, the right hon. the secretary at war would propose something as a reimbursement to those counties for what they had already spent, and as an indemnity for the future. The house would, he had no doubt, acknowledge the justice of such a proposition. The conveyance of troops for the national defence was a national concern, and no undue proportion of the expence attending such conveyance should be' suffered to fall upon particular counties.
 Mr. Whitbread  admitted, that the sum was not very material; but it remained for the right hon. gent. to shew that such an expenditure was necessary, or that it contributed in any degree to promote the discipline of the volunteers. In his opinion, without meaning to derogate from the character of the officers alluded to, the improved discipline of the volunteers was not at all owing to those general. Not one jot of that discipline was he disposed to attribute tp their orders or management. On the contrary, it seemed rather to proceed from the activity of the inspecting officers, who were as competent to forward those returns which were alleged as one cause for the new appointments, as any generals whatever. On the whole, he had much doubt of the propriety of such various appointments for the volunteers as major-generals, brigadier? generals, and inspecting officers. If either of these could, with all its appendages, be dispensed with, it would form a
 253
 Mr. Whitbread  was of opinion, that any increase in the staff establishment, with a view to the improvement of the volunteers in discipline, by the appointment of brigadier generals, was wholly unnecessary. From his own experience he could affirm, that no advantage whatever had been derived from such appointments; he therefore thought it imprudent to add, so
 252
 Mr. Creevey  said, that understanding a commission had been issued, granting large and extraordinary powers to those to whom it was addressed, for acting on the reports of the existing commission of naval inquiry, he should move, "that an humble address be presented to his maj. praying, that he would be graciously pleased to order the proper officer to lay before the house a copy of the commission lately issued by the crown to sir C. Middleton and others, authorising them to act according as they should deem right, with respect to certain subjects contained in the reports of the commissioners of naval inquiry."
 Mr. Creevey  gave notice, that on an early day he should make a motion for information, whether any proceedings had been instituted by the lords of the treasury against John Fordyce, esq. who appeared indebted to the public in the sum of 80,000l.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  then rose to submit to the committee the estimates for the ordnance service of the year. The aggregate of the estimates for the present year exceeded the amount for the last year by 798,000 l. 256 l. l.
 Mr. Francis  said, that he saw by the estimates there was a charge for 20,145 troops in India. He wished to know whether these were Europeans independent of the troops of the Company. He was desirous also of knowing whether the regiments composing this aggregate number were nearly complete.
 Mr. Francis  contended, that the number of European troops in India could not be much above 8 or 9000.
 The Secretary at War  said they were included in the 503.
 The Secretary at War  said, that the letter of service was very long. He held an abstract of it in his hand, which, though not come from the war office, and, therefore, not strictly official, he intended to lay before the 'house. But if the hon. gent. wished for the whole of the letter of service, he should endeavour to get it ready as soon as possible.
 Mr. Foster  observed, that the noble lord had done him the honour to communicate to him the substance of the motions which he had just read to the house, to which he could not have any possible objection. But as the noble lord, from the observations he had made, seemed to suppose the lords of the treasury of Ireland to have been actuated by far different motives from those which they felt, he hoped for the permission of the house, to state the motives upon which they had acted. A sum of twelve hundred thousand pounds, or of one million and a half, had remained in England for the service of Ireland, which it was necessary to have transmitted to Ireland. The lords of the treasury applied in the first instance to the bank of Ireland, for this purpose, considering them, as the most proper body to bring the money over. The bank however, refused to interfere, from an apprehension, that as many of the directors were engaged in the business of exchange, any act which would have the effect of constituting them arbitrators of exchange, might draw down upon their court of directors, odium and reprobation. Under such circumstances, the lords of the treasury found themselves under a necessity of resorting to the means of drawing the money, and they adopted the expedient of bringing it over in bank of England notes, or bank post bills. They fixed the amount of the money to be drawn for, and gave ten days or a fortnight's no-
 261 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Dickenson,  jun. said, he was not prepared to answer the last speaker's question, with regard to the receipt of any additional reports relative to the hon. officer's conduct. It appeared to him that the navy board had acted against all precedent and decorum in the case of sir Home Pop-ham. As far as he could call to his recoil lection the last passage of their report, its tendency was, that they had declined hearing sir Home Popham's defence, and had proceeded on  ex parte ex parte 271
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  said, it was far from being his intention to enter much into this subject, and he had expected that the hon. gent. would have abstained from general observation, which tended only to aggravate, whilst the officer, the object of the discussion, had professed his extreme desire to enter into the investigation of his conduct; and for a full disclosure of facts, by the production of every information. He concurred with what an hon. friend of his, a member of the present admiralty board, had said, relating to the last sentence of the report of the navy board; and must think the case was decided by that board on  ex parte
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  allowed the truth of part of the hon. gent.'s observations, but added, that when it was understood, as it certainly had been, that no opposition to the motion was intended, it certainly became less necessary to enter into particulars, much less into an aggravated statement of them.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  was persuaded, that with the sentiments which he was sure the hon. gent, possessed, it must have been through inadvertence that he had selected, as one of his precedents, the officer alluded to. It was due to the memory of that officer to have spared the feelings of those who admired him, and of a country grateful for his valour and services. Had he lived, he would have proved an invaluable ornament to that profession in which, few has had been his days, he had shone.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  observed, that he thought every hon. gent. would at once perceive that a person might very well disapprove of the conduct of a preceding administration, and yet not enter into a respect of the conduct of those who had composed it. He disapproved of the conduct of the late board of admiralty, yet did not think himself called upon to take a retrospect of the measures of the noble earl who presided, or those of the gent. who assisted a at that board. Though thinking on these
 275
 The Chanc. of the Excheq,  Let that be judged of by the world, which knows the transaction.
 Sir A. Hammond  said, that the papers Were sent to the admiralty, and had never found their way back to the navy office.— The motions were agreed to.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  avowed his intention to oppose the hearing of evidence at the bar. He would either move, that the order be discharged, or oppose it, when moved, in due form.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  observed, that the noble lord was undoubtedly in possession of the house, but that if such a motion were made, he should feel it necessary to negative it.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  now rose to move for the discharge of the order. There was nothing, he said, to induce trite house to wish to hear evidence at its bar. The question had already undergone the fullest discussion. The house had the judgment of a select committee, the attention and the powers of which were peculiarly directed to this subject. Such was the case previous to the act called the Grenville Act. How did it stand now? The house had the advantages of the resolutions resulting on the enquiries of those who were sworn to fulfil the solemn duty to which they were appointed. What was now to be required? The persons, to be examined were either to-repeat their former testimony, or they were not. If they correctly stated their evidence as before given, there would be no advantage derived from the re-examination proposed; if they varied in their depositions, was the, house to give the preference to their former declarations on oath, or to their subsequent affirmations? Certainly it must be admitted, that the testimony which had received the authority and sanction of an appeal of that nature, ought to be preferred. On these grounds he should move, that. The order be discharged.
 The Attorney General  said, he saw no force in the arguments used by the hon. gen. in opposition to the motion of his right hon. friend, and still less in the observation which the hon. gent, applied to the reversal of the order and course of proceeding at the present moment. It could not be complained that the parties were taken unaware, as when the business had been postponed on a former day, his right hon. friend distinctly stated, that the ground of that postponement was to afford gentlemen an opportunity of considering the' expediency of a deviation from the precedent of the Shoreham case, of the nature of that which was now proposed. That the course proposed by his right hon. friend was strictly according to the uniform practice which prevailed previous to the Grenville act, was not attempted to be denied; and the question for the house to consider in the present instance, and also for future cases, was this, whether it would be more agreeable to justice and expediency to follow the former course, or that which bad obtained since the enactment of the Grenville law? For the former he certainly was an advocate, and his
 282 uox populi, vox dei, 283 ad infinitum. ex parte 284
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  begged leave to put the hon. gent, right in regard to the duty of the committee. The gentleman had said chat the committee was not bound to judge of the returning officer, that question not being before it in virtue of the Grenville act; but had the hon. gent. had recourse to the votes of the house, he would have found that the petition of Mr. Mainwaring complained of the conduct of the sheriffs expressly, and that this petition, with the complaint, was referred to the committee. The conduct of the sheriffs, therefore, became the direct subject of the committee's investigation.— The question being then called for, the gallery was cleared, no division, however, took place. Mr. Pitt's motion was acceded to, and the order discharged accordingly. The first resolution of the committee was then agreed to, and the debate postponed till this day vwek,—Adjourned.
 The Speaker  said, there were two roads open in this matter to the house; either the motion for hearing counsel at the bar might be made, and an order voted, or having heard the motion made, the right hon. gent, could move, that the order be discharged.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton,  pursuant to his notice on a former day, rose, for the purpose of submitting to the house certain motions on the subject of the financial situation of Ireland. As he understood from a communication with the right hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Foster), that no objection would be made to the production of the papers for which he proposed to move, it would not be necessary for him to trespass long on the attention of the house. He should, therefore, barely state to the house the nature of the motions which it was his intention to propose; first, with respect to the amount of all sums that had been drawn from this country, by way of loans, for the service of Ireland; and next for an account of all orders from the lords of the treasury in Ireland on that subject. But, as in all probability, he should feel himself hereafter bound to call the attention of the house to that subject, he trusted he should meet with their indulgence in stating briefly his own view of it. The house would recollect, that, in consideration of the extraordinary state of the exchange with Ireland, a committee had been appointed during last session, to inquire into and report upon the causes that had produced it. The committee had occupied much time in the consideration of the subject, and the only result that had followed was the measure of drawing on England for the amount of the sums borrowed here at par. This he was so far from considering as a step towards the improvement of the state of exchange, or a removal of the grievance complained of, that be considered it only
 260
 Mr. Fox  said, he did not mean to go into any discussion on the present occasion. He could not, however, admit that the light hon. gent. who had just sat down was entitled to blame the hon. gent. for the manner in which he had introduced the subject. The hon. member had introduced no observations but such as were strictly connected with the object he had in view. His object was to persuade the house of the propriety of having the papers produced; and was it not for that purpose necessary to employ some arguments? When papers were called for, was it not always previously required that a case should be made out to the house? But the right. hon. gent. had argued that there was no necessity for argument, because the hon. officer did not, oppose the production of the papers. He felt himself called upon to protest against such doccrine. It was not parliamentary, and he trusted it would never be admitted by the house. It was not fit that the house should hear of the production of papers merely because it happened to suit the inclination of the parties. He was not displeased that the hon. officer had shewn himself willing to go into the enquiry; yet, perhaps, if he had not talked so much of his own innocence, and of the guilt of the late board, it would not have been the
 272
 Mr. Fox.  I should have thought, sir, that the right hon. gent. would have displayed a greater accuracy than he has done. What happens in youth makes a permanent impression. At the period to which the right hon. gent. has alluded, he was very young. Young memories, however, are retentive of circumstances that eminently affect them. I am sure that the right hon. gent, himself must know, that there was nothing in the transaction to which he has transiently alluded, that could give me pain on a retrospect of my conduct: but I do apprehend that the case is somewhat otherwise as to the right hon. gent. Several members on both sides this house know that transaction, and will decide on the merits of that view of it which I have unfolded.
 Mr. Fox  declared, that had it not been for what had fallen from the hon. officer, he should not have said a single word more upon the subject. That hon. officer had said that the board adopted a particular mode of proceeding, because they thought that it would be agreeable to the admiralty. On the 9th of April, he said, he had been promised to be furnished with the papers he required. That board was only three weeks longer in existence; it was therefore impossible that he could have been supplied by them with a copy of the papers in Aug. the time to which he had alluded. As to the idea of officers being ready to meet enquiry, or, in fact, being anxious for it, it had been seen, in that house, that when such persons, or the nearest relatives of them had supported, or voted for the inquiry, there were other persons, (members of his maj.'s govt.) who openly resisted the investigation, and the necessary papers were not produced. A right hon. gent. who professed himself at that time, to be as anxious as any other member of that house to promote the inquiry, had since come into office; and from the superiority of information which his situation afforded, he should have expected that the right hon. gent. would have brought the subject again. before parliament. He, however, had not thought fit so to do. It was therefore not to be wondered at that a new board of admiralty did not wish to follow up the measures of their predecessors in a similar instance.
 Mr. Fox  said, he would trespass on the house but for a few words, not that he thought it necessary to vindicate himself from such gross ignorance as he should be ashamed of. The learned gent. had charged him with saying, that it was contrary to all analogy to pronounce sentence without hearing evidence. He said no such thing. He said it was contrary to analogy to pronounce the guilt of a party without hearing evidence. He believed, the hon. gent, would allow there was a material difference in the expresssion, and he was certain the learned judges would perfectly agree with him in the distinction he had taken.
 Mr. Fox  said, he felt it impossible to concur in the. grounds stated for the proposition of the right hon. gent, and equally impossible to accede to the  res integra 278 279 280 281
 Mr. Kinnaird  said, that he would not be schooled by any man in that house into sentiments of delicacy. He had alluded.
 273
 Mr. Kinnaird,  confirmed as he was in his own opinion by that of his hon. friend, did not deem it necessary to make any apology to the house for what he had said, He had merely stated what was contained in the report of the navy board; if it were proved false, no man would more willingly retract. With regard to the statement, that the navy board had adopted an unusual mode of proceeding in this affair, it was untrue. The same had taken place when that board had investigated the conduct of sir R. King, sir A. Mitchell, sir R. Bicker-ton, and capt. Cook, of the ship La Forte, It would afford him the sincerest satisfaction, could the hon. officer clear himself in the eyes of his country from the imputation which attached to him, and in that case he should be one of the first to avow his misapprehension.
 Mr. Kinnaird,  pursuant to his notice on a former day, rose to move for the production of certain papers, calculated to enable the house to judge of a charge made in a report of the navy board, on the subject of certain very large charges for the repairs of the ships Romney and La Sensible, while under the command of sir Home Popham, in the Red Sea. On a subject of such importance, he thought it incumbent on him, both consistently with his duty to the house, and in fairness to the hon. and gallant officer whose conduct was implicated, to state a few of the circumstances which induced him to institute an inquiry into the grounds of this charge. He hoped the house would do him the justice to believe that he had not taken up the subject on light grounds, or from hasty conclusions. It was not the rumours on this business, which had long met the public ear; it was not till he had, for several months, seen a publication containing the most serious charges against the hon. officer, and observed, that this publication remained unanswered, that he had felt himself called upon no longer to postpone the consideration of a subject, in which, not only the
 262 l. 263 l. 264 l. l. 265 266
 Lord Marsham  rose to move the order of the day, for he ring at the bar the charge against R. A. Cox, esq and sir W. Rawlins, knt. the gent, who were, in 1802, the sheriffs of London and Middlesex. The noble lord said, he felt some slight embarrassment what course
 276
 Lord Marsham  would have no objection to any mode which the house should think proper to adopt. There was, however, some delicacy in the case, since the parties wished to be heard at the bar.
 Lord Marsham  observed, that the counsel for the accused not having summed up and remarked on the evidence before the committee, was no fault of the committee. The noble lord thought the parties ought to be allowed to supply that omission by hearing their counsel at the bar.—In some farther conversation between Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, and the Attorney General, it was understood to be the intention of Mr. Pitt to oppose the hearing of counsel upon the question as to the guilt or innocence of the accused; but that right hon. gent, observed, that upon the question as to the measure of punishment, it was competent to any member to propose the calling in of counsel.
 Mr. J. Hawkins Browne  supported the motion. In animadverting on what had fallen from an hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Sheridan) he said, that if the sheriffs had not been fully heard in the committee it was owing to their counsel, for he understood that it had been a matter agreed between the counsel of both sides, that if the one forbore to criminate the sheriffs, the other would be less urgent in their defence. To this cause he therefore attributed the counsels not summing up the evidence in favour of the sheriffs, which the hon. gent. had alluded to.
 Mr. J. Fitzgerald  stated, that the parliament of Ireland had adopted also the Grenville act. But they had also gone farther and adopted it with an amendment. There, appeared here to be no particular law in regard to the returning officer, but the parliament of Ireland had provided by express act for cases of the kind now before the house* When the conduct of the
 286
 Admiral Markham  stated, that the board of admiralty had directed the navy board to furnish the hon. officer with a copy of their report, and that he believed it was furnished. It was natural to suppose that when such heavy accusations were brought forward against the hon. officer, he would have entered into some justification of his conduct. The hon. officer had hinted that he ought to have been called before the navy board for that purpose. Such was not the regular mode of procedure. The accounts of all naval officers are sent to the navy board, there examined, and, if found to be incorrect, the pay of such officers is stopped, but they are not themselves summoned to give an explanation of their conduct. The hon. officer had expressed his surprise, that after his return to England, and during the period in which the late admiralty board continued in office, this report had been suffered to lie dormant, and no proceedings whatever instituted upon it. He would inform the house of the reason. In the first instance, the admiralty conceived the idea of instituting a criminal prosecution; they then
 270
 Mr. Sheridan  said, he agreed entirely with his hon. friend, whose arguments had been so strong that he did not think it at all necessary to reply to the observations that had been made by the learned gent, on the other side. There was a principle, however, laid down by the learned gent, that if the returning officer should not happen to be present at the committee who might report against his conduct, there would then be ground for hearing such evidence at the bar as such officer might feel it necessary to bring forward for his exculpation. If so, then the course proposed by the learned gent.'s right hon. friend was inadmissible. For it always would be necessary to establish a preliminary inquiry, according to the learned gent.'s principle, to ascertain whether the returning officer was present at the committee before the house proceeded to pronounce judgment upon him; and in point of strict justice, this inquiry should also go to this point, whether the returning officer was present throughout, or whether his defence was not perfected before the committee had made their report. In the case before the house, he could say that the defence of the accused was not perfected, because the counsel for the accused did not conceive it necessary to sum up, and remark upon the evidence. Such was that learned gent.'s reliance on the
 285
 Mr. Elliot  wished that the letter of service for the recruiting should be produced.
 Mr. Elliot  rose to call the attention of the house to a particular circumstance in the papers laid upon the table in consequence of a motion of a right hon. friend of his (Mr. Windham.) The numbers said to be recruited in a certain period were stated to he 503. But 396 boys were also mentioned. He wished to know, from the sec.
 259
 Mr. Windham  thought that the spirit of his hon. friend's inquiry rendered it proper that the official and regular letter should be produced.—Agreed to.
 Sir Charles Pole,  in reference to the papers spoken of early in the debate by sir Home Popham, said, that the papers containing the charges against sir Home were sent to the board of naval enquiry, where he believed they still were.
 Sir Home Popham  was surprised, as the hon. gent, was not pushed for precedents, that he should allude to an officer who had lost his life in the service of his country.
 Sir Home Popham  then rose, and stated, that wishing nothing to he withheld, he felt it is duty to move to have laid before the house, all his correspondence with the board of admiralty and the navy board. He accordingly referred to the greater part of their letters, in all of which he expressed the strongest desire for the fullest investigation of his conduct. He complained severely of the reluctance of the navy board to give him up the papers necessary for completing his defence, even after he had received assurances from the secretary of the admiralty that orders for that purpose had been specially delivered. He had been informed in April that the papers were nearly ready for delivery. He had made repeated applications, till Aug. when he was given to understand that the papers were lost. Thus, after waiting 4 or 5 months, he had been scandalously tantalized and disappointed. He inveighed with great severity on such unfair and illiberal treatment of the report. As an instance of the jealousy, or worse, of the late admiralty, the hon. officer next stated to the house, that when at Sheerness, for the purpose of refitting, every delay had been interposed, and the most vexatious obstacles thrown in his way, until at length the object was in danger of never being accomplished, —There was another subject on which he felt peculiar pain. It was not enough to have traduced him in a pamphlet, in which hot one fact appeared that was not scandalously perverted, but that pamphlet must be circulated with an industry unparalleled, and even sent to the officers under his command: for when on a late service on the enemy's coast, he found that that pamphlet had been sent by post to the officers under his command. On a proceeding like this, which obviously tended to remove all confidence in a commander, he need make no observations. Was it patriotism? Was it public virtue? Ridicule, too, was at the same time attempted to be thrown upon him, because he had been, as his enemies had pleased to term it, a leader of catamarans, a mode of attack, which in common with other officers, he had suggested to the present naval administration. He begged leave to remark on the way in which the notice for the motion now before the house had been given. He was in command of a
 274
 Sir Home Popham  rose, and assured the house, that no man in existence was more anxious than himself to have every pant of his conduct fully canvassed; no exertion had been omitted on his part to have a fair opportunity of vindicating himself from the charges which were so industriously circulated against him in an anonymous and scurrilous pamphlet, from which the hon. gent. who introduced the business, appeared to have drawn all his information. The hon. member had expressed his surprise, that no answer had been given to that pamphlet. He begged leave to assure the hon. gent. and the house, that this had arisen from no backwardness on his part, to meet the scandalous falsehoods which that pamphlet contained. The fact, however, was, that a certain degree of caution and alarm in the press had retarded the publication of his answer; which now, however, was before the public. From this answer, he begged leave to read a few extracts of letters which had passed between him and the board of admiralty, from which it would be clear beyond all possibility of doubt, that he had on every occasion evinced the most ardent desire, not only to throw no obstacles in the way of the investigation of the charges; but had, on the contrary, pressed upon the board of admiralty, every consideration which seemed to him in the least calculated to accelerate the discussion. In support of this observation, the hon. offi-
 267 268 269
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  rose, in consequence of the notice be had given on a former day, to bring forward his intended proposition with respect to the the loyalty loan. The regular course of the house, he was aware, would be to bring this subject forward in a committee of ways and means; but from the nature of his proposition on this occasion, he thought it would be better to bring it forward in a committee of the whole house, which he now gave notice he should do to-morrow. While he was on his legs, however, it would be as well to give the house some intimation as to the present state of that business. He had, therefore, to inform them, that out of the 22 millions outstanding of that loan, oh the close of the last session of parliament, the holders of 13 millions had subscribed1 to the terms then proposed; and of the remaining sum, the holders of 4½ millions
 289
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  laid on the table some farther papers respecting the negotiation with Spain, copies of which he stated were ready to be distributed to the members.
 Earl Temple  expressed a hope that as this formed the fourth volume of papers on this subject, and as they were so voluminous as to require much time for examination and comparison, the right hon. gent. would have no objection to postpone the discussion until Monday next. If the right hon. gent, consented to this necessary delay, the noble lord mentioned that his right hon. friend, (Mr. Windham,) whose motion stood for that day, was willing to give way, and postpone his motion to some future day.
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  said, that although it would afford him more satisfaction to have this important matter discussed on Friday, yet with the view stated by the noble lord, be should agree to postpone it till Monday next, fully persuaded that the more the papers on the table were examined, the more the proceedings of his maj.'s govt. were likely to meet the unanimous approbation of that house and the country. He wished, however, to be understood, that as it was highly desirable to have the sense of the house expressed as soon as possible upon this subject, the postponement to Monday would be final. —The following are correct copies of the additional papers relative to the war with Spain, presented by the right hon. gent. viz.
 The Speaker  said, it was his duty to explain to the hon. baronet that it had not been the usage of the house to reject amendments, not altering the substance of a money bill, but merely correcting a clerical error, which the present amendment only went to do, and that in a paragraph reciting a former act of parliament. Even in his own short experience, many instances had occurred wherein similar amendments had passed without objection. In the case, for instance, of annum per centum, when the word per became a necessary amendment. The present bill coo stood, as now amended, in the original copy, and the error was merely an omission by the ingrossing clerk. —The amendment was agreed to, and a message sent to the lords to acquaint their lordships thereof.
 The Speaker  said, it was his duty to explain to the house the nature of the amendment made by the lords, which was merely the insertion of the word "tax" after the word "land," in one of the paragraphs. It had always, he said, been the usage of that house to regard with extreme vigilance any amendments made by the house of lords in any act in the nature of a money bill, and to reject, with the most scrupulous rigour, any amendment which tended to trench upon the exclusive privilege of that house, even in the slighest degree, by altering any part of the substance of
 288
 Sir W. Young  thought even the present instance of too much importance to be allowed to pass. Had the insertion been of almost any other word than tax, the amendment might have passed as unobjectionable.
 Mr. Huskisson  moved the order of the day, for a committee of the whole house on the loyalty loan act. The house having resolved into the committee, the hon. gent, informed the committee, that as his right hon. friend, (the Chanc. of the Excheq.) had yesterday stated to the house the plan he proposed to follow with respect to this object, it would be unnecessary for him to take up the time of the committee. He should therefore content himself barely with moving the resolutions. The 1st resolution provided, that such of those holders of loyalty loan as had given, notice on or previous to Oct. 10, 1804, that they wished to be paid off
 308 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l.
 The Attorney General,  in explanation, agreed perfectly, that the evil complained of by the learned gent. had never been in his contemplation. The provisions of the act of last session had been copied from the act of 13th Geo. III. between England and Scotland, in which the defect had not been noticed until the occurrence now alluded to bad discovered it in both.
 The Attorney General  had no difficulty in allowing that the act required amendment in some points. At the same time he doubted, whether the amendments he thought it required were the same that were wished for by the learned gent. for he knew of no amendments that were rendered necessary by the proceedings in that court, nor did he think it right, in the present state of those proceedings, to prejudice the discussion of the case now before the courts, by a parliamentary declaration of the sense of the house upon the construction of the act.
 Mr. Hutchinson  deplored the necessity which he supposed the govt. felt of proposing so very strong a measure, without a full and previous explanation of the grounds on which it was demanded. If the necessity was shewn, he was sure no person would differ from them in a moment like the present. He would not, however, refuse his assent because the necessity was not shewn. He wished to call the attention of ministers to the full consideration of the state of Ireland, as he had repeatedly endeavoured to do before. He was, therefore, prepared to give them the most ample support they could desire; though there existed no disturbance, nor apprehension of distraction, to prevent their looking into the whole state and system of the country with a view to that general amelioration which was so much required. It was in the hope and with the design, that no local troubles, no partial disaffection, should call off the attention of parliament, or of his maj.'s cabinet, from the consideration that Ireland at large demanded and deserved of it, that he supported this measure, which was particularly necessary in a war like the present. He lamented again that it was not advisable to state the grounds on which the renewal of the suspension was asked, as they must be secrets of state; and when he acceded
 315
 The Chanc. of the Excheq. —I should be extremely desirous, sir, to give way on the present occasion to any gentleman from Ireland whose knowledge of the subject in question must be valuable, were it not that some observations which fell from the right hon. gent. over the way, which seem to me necessarily to call for animadversion. At the sentiments which he has now expressed, it is impossible for me not to feel some surprise. The position which he appeared to me to hold, seemed to go to this extent, that in no case whatever could the habeas corpus act be injustice suspended without a previous enquiry. If this was not the position which he meant to maintain in its full extent, then much, very much of what he has said was unnecessary, because it did not bear upon the present question. But if it were, why then he must have spoken with a full knowledge that it has been the practice of parliament to suspend this act without any previous enquiry, and that it was actually suspended in the course of last war with his full consent and approbation. But the right hon. gent. does not contend that the renewal is not right, but that it ought not to be granted without previous examination. Are there no circumstances, then, in which a contrary practice may not only be necessary, but strictly justifiable upon every principle of reason and common sense? It does, sir, often happen, that a case may be so clear and so notorious, so open to every man's observation, that a public statement of the grounds upon which it is required to adopt strong measures may be both futile and unnecessary. Such a case is the present, and
 319 320 321 322
 Mr. Alexander  was surprised that any gent. should assert, that there existed no cause in Ireland for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. He believed, that in the north of Ireland the people were, in general, loyal; but disaffection still lurked among them, and if not kept down by the strong hand of power, would soon become too formidable for opposition. An hon. gent. had alluded to the period of history, during the reigns of the earlier princes of the Brunswick family, when the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act first took place, and had compared that epoch to the present; but he did not think the resemblance so strong as the hon. gent. seemed to imagine. At that time the jacobites were contending for the restoration of the Stewarts to the thrones both of G. Brit. and Ireland. They had no common object in view. Now, the exertions of the Irish malcontents are directed to separate Ireland from G. Brit. and to establish in the former country a distinct and independent democracy. The part of Ireland which he had the honour to represent, was in a quiescent state; but he was satisfied that his constituents, although they laboured under no necessity of availing themselves of the suspension, would heartily rejoice at the security that it would afford to such of their neighbours as were not in such an enviable situation. It was a circumstance too well authenticated to admit of the least doubt, that to every point of France that is easily accessible from Ireland, numbers are continually passing, whose object was surely questionable.
 Mr. Dawson  could not suffer this question to come to a decision without declaring his hostility to the original motion, and his reasons for supporting the amendment of the hon. baronet. He was confident the right hon. baronet who had brought forward the original motion had
 336
 Sir John Stuart  said, it did not surprise him much that gentlemen should receive the proposition for this measure with so much coldness; but he happened, in the course of his official connection with the govt. of Ireland, to have the melancholy experience of circumstances to prove the necessity for this measure, and he had no hesitation, for one, to declare it was in dispensably requisite for the tranquillity of that country. He was himself the representative of a county as sincerely attached as any in Ireland to Britain, and the Brit. constitution. This measure was called for by the loyal part of the people for their security and protection against the machinations of the disaffected. It was not now prudent or desirable to go through all the circumstances which rendered such a measure necessary in a country just freed from one rebellion which had succeeded to another, and in which this bill would be the principal support of the loyal and well affected. It was also satisfactory to have an assurance from experience, that the powers it gave would not he abused. He knew the nobleman at the head of the Irish govt. and had opportunities of seeing that he inherited from his illustrious ancestors a zealous attachment to the constitution. He had, in fact, conducted himself in such a manner throughout the whole course of his govt. that there was not a man in the country who had not the fullest confidence that he would not abuse any power entrusted to him. With respect to grounds to be laid by govt. from the information that had reached it, he had to say, that while he teas in office in Ireland (as attorney general,) information had been given by persons connected with the disaffected; and that the exposing to public view the channels through which this information had been obtained, would have the effect to deprive govt. of the sources to future discoveries, and to expose the persons who had made the communication to the knife of the assassin. The numbers confined at present were but few; and from the knowledge he himself had of some of them, they were justly detained. If an investigation could with prudence be granted, he had no doubt it would establish the necessity for the support and defence of the loyal.
 Mr. Fox  observed, that the judges of assize had stated, as a complaint from the county of Cork, the unwholesomeness of the prison in which Mr. Jones was confined. As to the concluding part of the hon. bart.'s observations, he should take occasion to talk a little more about it when the motion he had already alluded to should come before the house.
 Mr. Fox. —Much, sir, as I have been alarmed, and have had to regret the opinions avowed, and the conduct pursued by the ministers of this country for several years back, particularly while headed by the right hon. gent. who now presides over the administration of his maj.'s govt. yet I confess that I have never felt an equal degree of alarm to that which the sentiments he has just uttered have excited in my mind. I should hope, sir, that he did not speak seriously. If he did; if he really and deliberately holds such sentiments, I must say that I consider him as maintaining principles the most alarming that I have ever heard promulgated in this house or this country, and such as I could scarcely suppose it possible that any man who imagined the people of England retained any degree of regard for their liberties, would venture to declare, or who professed even a respect for the spirit of the British constitution would hear without pain. If the doctrines which the right hon. gent. has this night avowed, be those upon which he means to act, and if he should obtain power sufficient to carry them into effect, melancholy indeed is the prospect for this country ! But, perhaps, the right hon. gent. meant to use the declarations I have referred to merely as a defence against the arguments of my right hon. friend (Mr. Windham), and not as the indication of a settled opinion. If even so, they were inefficient to the purpose of such defence, and they certainly went much beyond any principles avowed by the right hon. gent. or any of his colleagues, during the last war; yet they were not inconsistent with those principles. They were different from, though not contrary to, the nature of those maxims which dictated that mischievous course of policy towards the people and their privileges, which it was my uniform endeavour to deprecate and prevent. Indeed, the rt. hon. gent. himself never attempted to go the length he has hazarded to-night. He never before ventured to maintain that because some of the people were bad subjects, the liberty of the whole people should be placed at the discretion of the minister and his agents by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. With this statement he has coupled something which he meant as a reply to the arguments of my right hon. friend (Mr. Windham), and as a charge upon me and those gent. who acted with me in resisting the frequent motions for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus
 324 325 326 327 328 329 sine die. 330 331 332
 Mr. Dennis Browne  agreed that the greater
 314
 Mr. Fitzgerald  said, that according to his view of the justice of the case, the person taken up should be at liberty to give bail where the arrest took place, for his appearance where the offence was committed. It could never have been the intention of the framer of the act, that a person arrested in Ireland, for a bailable offence committed in England, should be brought to the place where the offence was committed without being allowed to give bail; or, that a person arrested in England for an offence committed in Ireland, should be conveyed to that country without availing himself of the legal mode of liberation till the time of trial.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  then proposed to move for an account of all persons imprisoned in Ireland for treasonable charges, together with the causes of their arrests, their means of subsistence while in prison, and how and when such of them as had been liberated were discharged. In answer to Sir E. Nepean, who expressed a difficulty of stating particularly the grounds of commitment, lest it should lead to a discovery of the channels through which govt. had its information, Mr. Fitzgerald said, he wished merely to know generally the ground stated in the commitment, for the purpose of ascertaining how the govt. of Ireland had executed the act, the re-
 311
 Mr. James Fitzgerald,  in consequence of the determination of the Court of King's Bench in Ireland, on the construction of the act passed in the last session, for the more easy trial of offenders escaping from one part of the United Kingdom to another, in which determination the construction had been established by the opinion of two judges against that of one; in consequence also of the great agitation that had arisen in Ireland, on this determination, and assured of the concurrence of the gentlemen of the Irish bar, who, if they did not concur with him, would have abandoned all that independence of judgment, and all those sound principles of law and reason of which they had ever been so honourably tenacious, felt it his duty to call the attention of the house to the provisions of the act in question, which so flagrantly called for amendment in the point he alluded to. He should have felt it his duty to give notice of a particular motion on this head, if he did not think the amendment would come better from the quarter in which the act had originated. He trusted the hon. and learned author of the act would offer such amendment as would be best calcu-
 310
 Mr. R. Martin (of Galway)  said, he would trouble the house with an observation or two, which he would comprise in a few words. If it had been proposed to him to give a decided affirmative or a decided negative to the motion for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, he should certainly, with the knowledge of the circumstances of Ireland that he possessed, have preferred the former; but as a middle course had been offered to the house by the motion of an hon. bart. which went
 335
 Lord De Blaquiere  observed, that if it was meant to discuss this question upon any supposition that the two countries, Ireland and England, were in the same situation, gent. were grossly mistaken indeed. The hon. gent. who had just sat down, had given to the sentiments of his
 333
 Mr. Sheridan  said, he should reserve the full declaration of his sentiments upon the subject before the house for a future stage of the proceeding. He rose only to correct a mistake into which his hon. friend (Mr. Fox) had fallen, in supposing that he had ever supported such a measure as that which was then under discussion. This mistake of his hon. friend arose from this, that upon the motion for an address to his majesty, in answer to his message respecting the riot in Dublin, he spoke against any delay in expressing the abhorrence which the house felt against such atrocities as that message referred to, but he never voted for either the martial law bill, or the act for the suspension of thy Habeas Corpus.
 Mr. Windham,  in explanation said, that he had not stated that he would in no circumstances concur in the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act without instituting a committee of inquiry, but this he did say, and was ready to maintain, that upon such grounds as those which were stated for the motion before the house, it would be quite unjustifiable to answer to that motion without previous inquiry.
 Mr. Windham  rose to offer a few obser-
 316 317 318
 Sir Evan Nepean,  in consequence of a notice given yesterday, rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the further continuance of the act of last session for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland. The right hon. bart. said, that the continuance of the bill was rendered necessary by the existence of disaffection, in a considerable degree, in Ireland; by the avowed determination of the enemy to invade that country, and the preparations notoriously made for that invasion; by the fact of the collection and association of a number of Irishmen with the forces designed for that purpose, and the actual sitting of a committee of United Irishmen at Paris, corresponding with the United Irishmen of Ireland, and stimulating them to continue in acts of treason. In order to defeat their machinations, and counteract such treasonable plots, it became indispensably necessary to arm the Irish govt. by the further continuance of an authority which had already proved so salutary and efficacious in preserving the tranquillity of that country; more especially, too, as the present law would expire within the short period of six weeks, in which case a number of persons now confined in prison upon treasonable charges must be liberated, and left to follow their secret machinations without controul. He should therefore move for leave to bring in a bill to continue for a time to be limited, the said act."
 Sir Evan Nepean  said, that he had inquired into the situation of Mr. Todd Jones, and found, that though he was discharged, he had no reason to complain, as he was placed in as comfortable a state as a person in his circumstances deserved.
 Sir John Newport  explained. He had never, in the most distant manner, intimated that he should ultimately oppose the suspension. What he contended for was, that by appointing a committee, the house might be enabled to ascertain with precision, whether such a measure was eligible or not.
 Sir John Newport,  in rising to trespass upon the attention of the house, hoped he should not be considered as throwing any censure upon the government of Ireland, or any insinuation that the power reposed by the existing law in the hands of the present Chief Governor of that part of the empire, had been productive of any
 312 313
 Lord Castlereagh  rose. His ldp. said, he felt no necessity to follow the hon. gent. through all his details and arguments, when he recollected the able and animated speech made by his right hon. friend who opened the debate. Of whatever blame could be imputed to the govt. for their conduct towards Spain, he was very ready to take his full share. He was happy to rind the hon. gent. agreed with govt. on the construction to be put on the treaty of St. Hdefonso. Indeed, he went as tar on this subject as could be wished by any one; he allowed, that no treaty going to the length that this does could be called inoffensive. When the hon. gent, had made this allowance, he was surprised- to find him follow it up by observing, that he considered it would have been highly proper for this country to have obliged Spain to come to some distinct explanation. He was more surprised at this, because the hon. gent. agreed to the policy of keeping Spain neutral, so much so, that he conceived a subsidy of 3 millions annually not too great a price to pay for Spanish neutrality. But what encreased his surprise to its greatest height was, that the hon. gent. after commiserating the unfortunate and dependant situation of Spain, could think it expedient to press for an explana-
 401 402 403 404 405
 The Advocate General  (Sir John Nicholl) entered at considerable length into a discussion of the merits of the case on the part of our govt. as their conduct appeared to him to be countenanced and
 406 407 408
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  moved the order of the day for taking into consideration the Papers relative to the Discussion with Spain, and also that the three additional papers, presented on the 2d, 4th, and 6th of February, be at the same time taken into consideration. Copies of the said papers will be found in pp. 6l, 171, 229, and 291 of this volume. On the question being put, and agreed to,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, and spoke as follows.—I feel great satitfaction, sir, that the day is at length arrived when we can enter into that full and ample discussion of the papers before the house, which the magnitude of the subject requires, and though I am satisfied that a perusal of these papers, and an impartial consideration of the transactions to which they refer, would be sufficient to convince every rational mind of the rectitude of the measures pursued by his maj.'s. govt. and of the justice of the war in which we are engaged; yet, reflecting how much the complete illustration of the policy by which we have been guided, and the vindication of the steps which have been adopted, are necessary to the credit of his maj.'s govt. and to the honour of the British nation, I trust I shall be excused if I go somewhat at length into a review of the different aspects of our relations, and the progress of the discussions with Spain previous to the war. In the course of what I shall have the honour to submit to the house, I hope that I shall be able, not only to establish that which, I believe, indeed few can be now disposed to question, the ultimate justice and necessity of the war, but also, the exemplary moderation, liberality, and forbearance of the ministers of this country in every period of our relations with Spain since the breaking out of the war with France; and when unexpected circumstances required the departure from the system of lenity which it was always the desire of the Brit. govt. to exercise, that though they were not deficient in vigour to vindicate the rights, and to avenge the cause of the country, they never deviated from the laws of nations or the principles of good faith.—In the first place then, it it is necessary to take into consideration the relative situation in which Spain stood towards this country at the breaking out of the war, in consequence of her antecedent engagements with France. I need hardly say more to characterise that situation, than barely mention the treaty of St. Ildefonso, and the stipulations it contained. Spain was bound to France by a treaty on the face of it both offensive and defensive, and, in fact, a treaty which was by the contracting parties so entitled. Besides guaranteeing neutrality, their territories, &c. they agree to assist each other with 15 ships of the line, and 24,000 men: and this assistance, too, as appears from the 8th art. is to be given upon the
 367 ipso facto 368 369 370 371 l. l. 372 l. l. l. l. 373 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 374 375 sine qua non, 376 377 378 379 380 381 en flute; 382 real nominal. 383 384 sine qua non, 385
 The Chanc. of the Excheq.  said, that although it was his wish, that if possible, the, debate should be brought to a conclusion in the course of this night; yet as> there were
 409
 Mr. Grey  rose, oppressed and over-powered by the sense of the numerous de-
 386 387 388 389 390 391 392 393 394 395 396 397 398 399 400
 Mr. Windham  said, that he was ready to follow the learned gent, who had just sat down by entering fully into the subject, if it should not be the pleasure of the house to accede to the proposition he had to submit, for an adjournment of the disscussion. This proposition would not, he hoped, be resisted, as it must be obvious from the lateness of the hour, and from the number of gentlemen who were anxious to deliver their opinions upon the important subject under consideration, that it would be impossible to bring the debate to a close in the course of the night. The right hon. gent. concluded with moving, that this house do now adjourn.
 Mr. Rose  presented a petition from the trustees of the British museum, stating, that in consequence of the expence attending the enlargement of the building for the purpose of depositing the Egyptian antiquities, the sums allowed by parliament had been inadequate, and therefore praying further aid.
 Mr. Rose  said, that when he last stated the expences of the British museum, he had said that the orders which gave access to it, for the purpose of viewing the curiosities, might be obtained by persons of every description. He understood that if any person desirous of visiting the, museum applied on one day, he was admitted the day after.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that in the countries on the continent, particularly one where there was a valuable collection, of medals, he had never heard of any inconvenience arising from persons having access at all hours. He did not mean to infer that the trustees of the British museum were not willing to accommodate the public, but only to remark, that if those regulations were attended to which were adopted in other countries, greater facilities might be offered to the public, especially to foreigners.
 The Master of the Rolls  said, he would confine himself to the topics which were most important, and which bore most on the issue of the question, without going into the variety of details foreign to the main point into which other gentlemen had entered so much at large. There was much in the conduct of administration, and in the mode in which this business had been managed from the commencement, that might afford room for a great variety of opinions without bearing at all on the main question; but which might yet if much enforced in debate, have great influence on the decision as to that question. These points were certainly much connected with the question, but they ought not at all to enter into the decision upon it. Neither could he see how the dispatches in the early part of the negotiation could be made to enter into the consideration. The war originated in a remote cause, which was the unrenounced treaty of St. Ildefonso, and in a proximate cause, which was the intelligence of the preparation of armaments, and the refusal to explain the objects of these armaments. He conceived we had a right to demand an explanation of these objects on several considerations. First, our situation was to be considered, involved as we were in a war with France. Then, how far our situation with Spain was changed by this war with France, Then, what engagements we had entered into with Spain, whether by agreement or convention, for the name was immaterial, in order to ascertain what we gave to Spain, and on what conditions. Then, whether these conditions were violated, and what consequences, in point of right, resulted from such deviation. Afterwards, the consequences of the claims of explanation, and the amount of the satisfaction given. He understood his learned friend to say, that the treaty of St. Ildefonso did not carry on the face of it a
 438 439 ad referendum, ad referendum, 440 441 all any 442 all ulterior 443 444 445 446 447 448
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declared that he was fully satisfied with the explanation, and wished the argument there to rest between them.—The house then divided, when there appeared,
 
 
 For the original question, 313 
 For the amendment, 106 
 Majority 207
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —After the length of time, sir, which this business has already taken up, and more especially after the able and luminous point of view in which my opinions on this subject have been placed by my hot), and learned friend (the Master of the Rolls), the impression of whose speech I hope still remains with the house, notwithstanding the attempt which has been made to destroy it, I do not see any necessity for troubling the house much farther in detail. Yet, late as is the time to which the discussion has been protracted, I trust I shall meet with the indulgence of the house, while I shortly advert to some leading points that have been brought forward relative to the conduct of govt. some of them referring personally to myself. The first point, then; to which I would turn the attention of the house is, the attempt which has been made to represent my hon. and learned friend and myself as differing somewhat in our opinions relative to the commencement of the war with Spain, whereas, in fact, no difference ever existed; and my hon. and learned friend has only rescued the arguments which I made use of from the vulgar and wretched misrepresentation to which they have been exposed. An attempt has been made to prove that I and lord Hawkesbury were so mad as to say to Spain, "we shall forbear to exercise our rights
 459 460 461 462 463 464 465 466 467
 Mr. Fox  stated, in explanation, that he had been wholly misunderstood by the right hon. gent. He had never suggested the propriety of obtaining a categorical answer on the subject of the treaty of St. Ildefonso, which might have
 468
 Mr. Fox  then rose. He began by observing, that it was the less necessary for him to occupy much of their attention, since the arguments urged by his hon. friend who moved the amendment remained completely unanswered; and the hon. and learned gent, who had just sat down had not at all succeeded in overthrowing the doctrine laid down in the speech of his hon. and learned friend near him (Dr. Laurence); a speech not only replete with good sense, but what was not less valuable, with the most enlightened and liberal maxims of policy. But what still further superseded the necessity of his going into any length of discussion was, that the hon. and learned gent, had not, in the course of his reasoning, attempted to uphold the distinction betwixt a suspension of hostilities and a system of neutrality, by which we were to be placed in a more favourable situation, and enabled to take whatever advantage we thought proper, whenever a convenient opportunity offered itself. He confessed that the language he had heard on this subject from the right hon. gent. who opened the discussion, and other gent. on the same side, struck him with astonishment. It was neither more nor less than the language of gross fraud. When he heard the right of putting an end to neutrality asserted, just at that period when we could take the greatest advantage of the state with which the neutrality previously existed, he could not help considering it as altogether monstrous. He was happy to find that the hon. and learned gent, had not attempted to support such a doctrine as this, that we should be justified in entering into an implied agreement with another power, by which that power conceived itself safe from attack, merely with the purpose of renewing hostilities, at the moment when they were least expected. He was glad to find, at the same time, that the learned gent. was not disposed to deny the existence of that agreement which some other gent, seemed so anxious either to deny altogether, or to misrepresent its nature and
 449 450 451 452 453 454 455 456 457 458
 Dr. Laurence  said, that it was his intention last night to have noticed, in a few sentences, what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend (sir John Nicholl). Had be done so, at that period of the night, and exhausted as he and the house in general were, he should have confined himself merely to two or three points which had been touched on by his learned friend. Having, however, this night witnessed
 430 431 432 433 434 435 436 437
 Mr. Johnstone,  in opposition to the hon. gent. who had just sat down, though t the character and the honour of the country deeply compromised in the discussions, the official documents of which were now under the consideration of the house. He would maintain this opinion, although he was ready enough to believe, that the greater part of the country was fond of a war with Spain. The idea of being at war with a power vulgarly imagined to be possessed of immense treasures, was congenial enough to popular sentiment; but he trusted that that house would not allow itself to be hurried away by any such delusion, but examine with the strictest scrutiny the papers before them, ere they ventured to concur in the address proposed by the right hon. the
 424 425 426 427
 Mr. Hiley Addington  could not refrain from expressing the greatest salivation at being able entirely to concur in opinion with the hon. gent. who had spoken second in order in the debate of this evening; he wished, however, to add one or two observations to those which that hon. gent. had made on the statements of the learned gent. who had preceded him, and who commenced the discussion of this night. He should avoid adverting to the speech of the hon. gent who had just sat down, not out of the slightest disrespect to that gent. but because to all his arguments, complete answers would be found in the statement made yesterday evening by his right hon. friend near him, and he was, very unwilling to certain the house long, anxious as they necessarily must be, to hear the opinions of so many great and distinguished characters among them, who had not been
 428 429
 Mr. Bankes  observed, that as the subject was now before parliament, it might be necessary to make an observation. He thought that this national museum ought to be made more what it was originally intended it should be, and particularly that it should be rendered easier of access. It was an institution intended purely for national purposes, and for the benefit and instruction of the public at large, by ready
 410
 Mr. Bankes  expressed his determination, to vote for the address, and wished shortly to detail his reasons to the house. He could not discern those breaches of good
 421 422 423
 Mr. Fuller  observed, that among the various articles in the museum, there were some extremely rare and valuable, particularly books and manuscripts. He was of opinion, that without proper precautions, it would be very dangerous to suffer all sorts of persons to have promiscuous access.
 Mr. Fuller  said, that happy it was for this country it did differ from others. Perhaps if a man stole a print from the museum in France, he would be shut in prison for life.—The account was ordered to be laid upon the table. A motion was also made for a return, specifying the number of persons admitted to visit the British museum within the last six months, and the regulations attending their admission. Ordered.—Dr. Grey presented at the bar, the general account of the British museum for 1804, and estimate of account for 1805, and also the British museum new building account.
 Mr. Raine  rose. He began by apologising for preventing any gent. from being heard, but upon so momentous a question he was anxious to deliver his sentiments at as early an hour as possible, being conscious that when the patience of the house was at all exhausted, he could not hope to engage that attention, which others of greater experience and known talents could command at any period of the-debate, however advanced. Although the right lion. gent. who opened the debate, and those who followed him in support of the address, had thought fit conveniently for the purpose of their argument, to consider this question as embracing only one topic of discussion, to those who attentively considered it, as it appeared to him, it must obviously present itself in two points of view; the one, whether supposing an apparent ground of complaint to have been laid, under all the circumstances of the case, it was consistent with sound policy to involve this country in a war with Spain; the other, whether the manner of commencing hostilities can be justified. The latter, with the leave of the house, he should take the liberty of examining first, as being by far the most important, in as much as it involved in its consideration up less a question than that of national honour. And he must confess, that so far from thinking the mode in which hostilities were commenced justifiable, he alluded of course to the attack upon the Spanish frigates, to him it appeared little better than an act of piracy. This was no doubt a grave charge, and ought not to be imputed on light grounds, but if he had the good fortune to convey intelligibly to the house that which had impressed complete conviction upon his own mind, viz. that it was not warranted by any sound precedent to be found in all political history, that it was a violation of the national faith implicitly pledged, and that it was contrary to, the express letter and spirit of the law of nations, he should go pretty far towards proving, if not the whole length of proving, that the act was little better than piratical. With regard to the precedents, he believed he might safely challenge those who supported the other side of the question to traverse the whole range of universal history so far as regards the practice of civilized nations; certain he was, he could boldly defy them to ransack our own history for a single instance of acknowledged authority upon which the act in
 412 413 414 415 pro-testing always 416 towards the end of September, In consequence of this intelligence 417 418 419 captured. 420
 Lead Henry Petty  rose and observed
 474 475 476
 Mr. Pytches  opposed the bill. It was, he said, highly improper to pass a measure of this sort without a previous inquiry. He would ask any dispassionate man, whether it was fair to the people of Ireland to treat them with less respect than the people of G. Britain? This bill was sown in suspicion and reared in jealousy, and might be attended with the greatest miseries to the people of Ireland. The only reason for all this was the traitorous committee at Paris. By the total omission of any mention of Ireland in his maj.'s speech at the opening of the session, he
 478
 Mr. Ker  said, that no man more seriously deplored than he did the necessity for calling on parliament to pass such a bill; but he was still convinced, that necessity was imperious and pressing. The house would recollect, that when a similar bill was brought forward, in the year 1802, arguments precisely similar to those offered this night by the noble lord, were opposed to it by those who could not be induced to believe in the lurking sedition then brooding in Ireland: but, unhappily, the dreadful rebellion which burst forth in the Irish capital, in the summer of 1803, but too strongly verified the apprehensions of those who were advocates for the bill, of which number he was one. It was for the want of such power in the hands of the magistrates that year, that sedition had gone such lengths, and that sedition would again gather new strength, if not timely prevented, by renewing those powers' which were not likely to be abused in such hands as those of the nobleman now at the head of the Irish govt. the moderation and lenity of whose measures had shone so eminently conspicuous. In that part of the country with which he was more immediately connected, he was happy to know that the utmost loyalty and tranquillity prevailed; but he had lately heard that some resolutions of the magistrates of the county of Waterford had been published, in which they state their determination to apply to govt. to revive martial law, if the seditious did not desist from their daring conduct. He had thought it his duty to make some enquiry on this subject, and several gent. assured him the advertisement he alluded to did exist, and was called for by the sense of the magistrates as to the state of the county. He appealed for the truth of this statement to an hon. bart. opposite (sir John Newport), who had delivered his sentiments on the subject on a former evening. Such, he was convinced, was the existing necessity which called for this bill, in many parts of Ireland, that numbers of those who had been formerly most clamorous against it, were now most
 477
 Sir John Newport  said, that being called on by the last speaker, he should offer a few remarks in support of the consistency of the opinion he had formerly thought it his duty to deliver. He did not deny that there were appearances of disaffection in some parts of Ireland, but he never could admit the principle, that because one part of a kingdom was deficient in the duty they owed to their king and country, the whole kingdom was to be placed beyond the pale of the common law of the land. He was aware of the proceedings to which the hon. member alluded, but he thought that they afforded no reason whatever for the measure now before the house. The fact was, that the principal offenders in the county of Waterford were now actually in gaol and liable to be tried by the judges of assize. It was not therefore to be argued, that the proceedings referred to offered even an excuse for a bill which had a tendency to place the whole people of Ireland beyond the protection of the common law. On a former day he had not argued that the measure in question was unnecessary, but what he called for was an inquiry to demonstrate its necessity. Nothing short of a notoriety extreme and uncontradicted, could, in his opinion, justify this measure, and conceiving that this necessity had not been made out, he had moved an amendment, the object of which was to institute that inquiry, by which only a fair decision of the house could be formed. He wished the business to be probed to the bottom, and he never would submit to the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, unless on the clearest grounds.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt himself obliged to support the original motion. The merits of the question lay in a very narrow compass. All that could be stated in objection to it, had been stated in the ablest manner possible by the noble lord.
 524
 Mr. C. Wynne  said, he was willing to allow that there had been many cases in which the notoriety was sufficient, without any particular investigation of the circumstances; such, for instance, as the rebellions in 1715, and 1745, when the king sent down a message to the house, which was considered a sufficient ground. In 1803, likewise, when the rebellion in. Ireland was notorious. It was the duty of parliament, before they agreed to so extraordinary a measure, to make strict inquiry, unless they had very strong grounds indeed, such as he had just mentioned.
 525
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that that person had been confined by different special acts of parliament, and not by a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, which did not at that time take place.
 Mr. Macnaghten  said, that the dangers of Ireland had not been mentioned in the speech from the throne, on account of the notoriety of the case, and that the object was to prevent the recurrence of the horrors of 1798 and 1803. If this act had been in force in 1803, lord Kilwarden would not have been murdered. Certainly the loyal subjects had increased in Ireland, but that, he said, was no reason why they should be taken less care of now than formerly; but who was prepared to say, that there were, no jacobins there, ready to help the cause of France? He cautioned the house against the opinions of such as would make such a desperate assertion. The jacobins who destroyed the French monarchy were not very numerous, nor were they in Dublin when they murdered the lord chief justice, and many others of his majesty's subjects. They might still do great mischief, if that house did not pass this bill, which the loyalists of Ireland expected. It was a serious measure, but the loyal part of the people were not safe without it. He saw no necessity for an enquiry.
 Dr. Duigenan  said, the hon. gent. had mistaken the object of the noble lord's story, which was to shew, that Irish witnesses could not come with safety to London to give information before a committee. Assassinations similar to this were very common in Ireland. The suspension of the Habeas Corpus could not prevent such outrages; but it certainly rendered them less frequent. He had resided in Ireland from his youth, and he must of course know its situation better than the hon. gent. opposite; he took leave to say also, that he had a little more regard for it. The county of Waterford was notoriously disturbed, as was evident from the resolutions of the magistrates at a county meeting, at which the sheriff, a respectable member of that house, presided. An adjoining county also (Tipperary), the representative of which was present, was in servants a state, that the houses of all loyal men which had not a number of servants, or a large family to defend them, were broken open and robbed of their arms, and these arms were certainly not intended for shooting snipes. The county of Carlow was the scene of nocturnal meetings, and so was the county of Limerick, the representative of which was also present. The city of Dublin itself was under the necessity of being patrolled every night from the multitude of dangerous conspiracies and assassination plots; centinels were shot dead and maimed on their stands, and it was known that even committees were formed for systematising assassination. On all these grounds he thought the suspension indispensably necessary. We might truly say,  incedimus perignes suppositos cineri doloso.
 Mr. May  declared his conviction of the general Royalty of the North of Ireland; but in the South and West disaffection certainly existed. The suspension was necessa-
 532
 Lord Temple  said he had one word to offer in answer to the hon. gent. who had spoke last but one, and a little to the last, both of whom had pronounced a libel on the majority of the people of Ireland, a libel which, came particularly ill from the mouth of any one connected with that country. He protested against the principles they maintained, and against the libel they had thrown out. He protested also against the doctrine, that because he and his hon. friends did not represent Ireland, they could hot feel for that country as warmly as the hon. gent. (Dr. Duigenan). This was a charge of deficiency not only in the duty they owed to all the Empire, but a direct charge that they did not pay the same attention to particular parts of it which was given by the persons representing these parts. He was sure it was not so, and he was happy the hon. gent. was not supported in his insinuations by his brethren on that side of the house. If he and his hon. friends had not a right to interfere in the concerns of Ireland, the hon. gent. must allow the principle a reciprocal force. He would here call to the recollection of the hon. gent. the instance of the Additional Force bill of the last session, which was enacted for England, contrary to the sense of the majority of the English members, and on which the representatives of Ireland, and he believed among them the hon. gent. had claimed and exercised a full right of giving their votes. This by the bye. Now for the hon. gent.'s arguments. The hon. gent. in answer to the alledged want of notoriety, cited a list of atrocities which appeared to astonish those in favour of the measure, as much as those who opposed it. It would be as well, when the hon. gent. should again be disposed to indulge the house with the recital of such a catalogue, if he would
 533
 Mr. May  in explanation said, he allowed the loyalty of the north, but disaffection existed in the south. The lower class of the people were ready to rise at any time the appearance of a French force presented the opportunity, and it was necessary to keep them down with a strong hand; he did not mean to asperse the catholic gentlemen, who were good, loyal, and faithful subjects, but a low multitude, headed by as low and ill educated a clergy.
 Dr. Duigenan  said, he had not denied the right of the English gentlemen to interfere in the concerns of Ireland; he had said no such thing. He only contended, that he was better acquainted with the state of Ireland.
 Lord Temple  said, that was the obvious deduction from the hon. gent.'s arguments, lie did not wish to give the house so bad an entertainment as a discussion between two gentlemen, as to the fact in what had so recently occurred; but he believed he was in the recollection of the house, when he described the hon. gent. as representing that the English members had not the same regard for Ireland that he had. If he was wrong, the house would correct him; and he was the more particular as to the expression, as he would draw this line of distinction upon it, that if all members, from all parts of the empire, had not the same regard for every part, they were not fit to sit together.
 Mr. Hutchinson  lamented that the li-
 534
 Lord H. Petty  begged leave to set himself right from some misunderstandings. He did not say, that notoriety was no ground, but that it should be accompanied with great and imminent danger. Notoriety was too general and vague a term to be in itself sufficient; and if ever there was a doubt how indecisive this term was, the various meanings that had been affixed to it this night afforded the strongest exemplification of it. The representations of Ireland by the gentlemen of that country were completely at variance. It was evident from this, how dangerous it was for parliament to lend itself to mere representations; and, for himself, when the evidence was doubtful, he preferred that which went to maintain the people in the enjoyment of their liberties to that which went to deprive them of them.—The question being now put, there appeared,
 
 
 For the original motion, 159 
 For the amendment, 54 
 Majority, 105
 Lord Henry Petty  rose to oppose the motion of the hon. baronet, and to move that "the first of May" be substituted. As ministers had allowed that there was no pressure of time which urged the imme-
 523
 General Tarleton  stated, that there were in Liverpool alone above 10,000 persons completely engaged in this trade, besides countless numbers who were in some way or other affected and benefited by it. He had received instructions from his constituents to oppose the hon. gent's, intentions with all his power.—The house having resolved itself into a committee,
 Mr. Fox  said, that he did net rise for the purpose of now entering into the merits of this question, but to beg the hon. and
 529
 Mr. Kinnaird  felt it impossible to sit silent and hear the intentions of his noble friend who moved the amendment, misrepresented as they had been. He refuted the charge of parliamentary management conveyed in the shape of a compliment. The intention of his noble friend was not to refuse what govt. had asked, but only to procure good and sufficient reasons for its necessity. It was rather an extraordi-
 531
 Mr. Johnstone  said, he was embarrassed how to form a judgment on the supplies of the year without having the accounts of the preceding year before him, of which the house were in possession of only a part. On looking at the disposition paper, an alarming fact struck him: the surplus of the Consolidated Fund had been estimated as likely to amount, by the 5th of April, to 5 millions; now it appeared
 521
 General Gascoyne  was at a loss to know whether the hon. gent. meant to introduce a bill, exactly similar to that of last session. He might perhaps rind, that the circumstances of the times had induced many of the members to change their opinion on the subject since that period.
 Mr. Martin (of Galway)  said, he should, for one, certainly agree to the noble lord's amendment. If notoriety were sufficient to warrant the suspension, without inquiry, he should say, that notoriety did not exist. He had conversed lately with many gentlemen from Ireland, who concurred in opinion that the measure was not necessary to secure the peace of the country. It had been, indeed, spoken of, as not likely to do harm; but such an infringement of the liberties of a people ought to be proved to be attended with positive good, before it should be adopted. A bill of this description was not to be treated as lightly as a vote of credit. With regard to the secrecy so much contended for, and the danger and inconvenience said to attend enquiry, was there not considerable danger and inconvenience in exposing the affairs of the Bank of England, and yet a committee had been some time ago appointed to investigate and make a report on that subject. Why should the people of Ireland be treated with less ceremony? As to the character of the lord lieutenant and his secretary, it made no legislative ground for so severe a measure as the present. He never knew a lord lieutenant in that country who was not represented as a very amiable man. He never heard of a secretary who was not said to be possessed of the highest talents, and overflowing with humanity and benevolence. But these accounts, coming from a certain description of persons, were not always to be de-
 527
 Lord De Blaquiere  did not consider it as any reproach upon the noble lord to compliment him for his parliamentary management.
 Lord De Blaquiere  supported the suspension. He said if me notoriety was denied, the country was lost; he did not see how we could get on. He complimented the talents of the noble lord who moved the amendment, and praised his parliamentary management, in avoiding the meeting it on its original grounds. He said that inquiry would defeat the object of the measure. Make out such a case as gentlemen on the other side, desire, and you defeat the object of the bill. Tell a rogue you know his tricks and his haunts, and it is
 530
 Mr. Fuller  said, that so far from the sense of the house being taken on this bill in the last session, the fact was, that the sense of not one-sixth part had been taken.
 Mr. Robert Ward  commented on the arguments made use of by a right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham), at some length, and contrasted them with the sentiments he had expressed on some former occasions, when a measure similar to the present was proposed to the House of Commons. Lord Folkstone here called the hon. and learned gent. to order, on the ground of his allusions being irregular. After some conversation, the hon. member proceeded to observe, that the arguments against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, drawn from the deficiency of glaring instances, as stated by some hon. members, might be met by an illustration of an opposition of the same nature, which illustration was made by a right hon. gent. a few years back (Mr. Windham) who mentioned the case of the captain of a ship who went on a voyage round the world, and had provided himself with certain ventilators, and other machines of a useful description. "I laid out my money," said the captain, "for nothing, for I have not had a sick man during the whole of my voyage." The hon. gent. then alluded to the miseries which Ireland had suffered, and which had left her in a state of trouble; miseries which could not have been overcome, but by that system of vigour which had been adopted by administration. With respect to the measure now opposed by the hon. gentlemen on the other side, he should not wish to go farther back than the period of the revolution, to shew the manner in which such suspensions had been proposed and received in that house. In the first year of King William III. the deliverer of this country from tyranny, the Habeas Corpus was suspended, without any particular case, or any previous examination before parliament. A message was sent down from the throne, and it was stated, that his majesty's government found it necessary to arrest some suspected persons, but that they were met in their way by the
 528
 Mr. Bagwell  argued in favour of the bill, from the notoriety of the necessity, especially in his part of the country, where a gentleman could not let a farm to anew tenant without the chance of his being exposed to death, or some severe calamity. Numerous atrocities were committed, yet people dare not come forward to detect and punish the perpetrators. It was a melancholy consideration, that it became necessary to put a number of persons out of the pale of the constitution; but the only question was, whether it should be the loyal or the disloyal part of the nation?
 Mr. Huskisson  said, the remaining accounts which the hon. gent. had expressed his desire to see, should be laid on the table as soon as possible. With respect to the surplus of the Consolidated Fund, though certainly some deficiency did exist, yet he did not believe it wm any thing near so much as apprehended by the hon. gent. some duties which were yet to be paid from the East India Company would reduce it; and besides, he was not sure that the calculation which the hon. gent. founded on the surplus of the fund being, on the 14th of Feb. but 1,200,000l. was not erroneous, as it was likely that that was its amount on the 5th of Jan. With regard to the other part of the hon. gent.'s inquiry, he informed him, that it was intended to issue Exchequer bills, to replace those of last year, to the amount of 6,500,000l.—After some further conversation between Mr. Huskisson and Mr. Johnstone, accounts were ordered to be laid before the house of Exchequer bills outstanding on the 14th of Feb. 1805, that were charged on any of the supplies of the year 1804, distinguishing the acts under which they were issued.
 Mr. Wilberforce  expressed his opinion, that after the close investigation which this subject had undergone last session, and after the sense of the house upon it had been so decidedly taken, it was not necessary to trespass much upon their patience at present, reserving to himself the right of reply, if any objection should unexpectedly be started; he therefore moved, that the house do now resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, to consider the propriety of bringing in a bill for the abolition of the Slave Trade, in a time to be limited.
 Mr. Wilberforce  declared his surprise, that it should be insinuated he wished to press the matter with more haste than was consistent with propriety. If gentlemen would refer to the parliamentary journals, they would find that the proceedings were always the same. So far from any undue precipitation, he only meant to propose the first reading of the bill on Monday, and the second about Friday. He should now move, "that leave be given to bring in a bill to abolish the Slave Trade in a time to be limited."—Leave was accordingly given, and the report was received and agreed to.
 Mr. Windham  conceived the amendment of the noble lord not to have been clearly understood, as the objection he made was not perhaps at all, but certainly not so much to the measure itself, as to its being adopted without a previous parliamentary enquiry. The right hon. chancellor of the exchequer had done him the honour to state Ins conduct on a former occasion, when he certainly adopted the measure upon public notoriety, because the danger was present, and staring them in the face; but the right hon. gent. must recollect, that even then he expressed his opinion that an enquiry should first be instituted, but that he was overruled by that right hon. gent. himself, and others, on the ground that the danger was both pressing and notorious. But on no occasion did he say, that this suspension should continue always; for when he supported it on the spur of the moment, his support was founded both upon necessity and notoriety. He had now no ground or information before him, to shew that this measure was bottomed either in one or the other. He now wanted the notoriety, and had reason to think and believe, that since the passing of the act now in force, a great change had taken place in the minds and dispositions of the people of Ireland. Here there was no information brought forward, no danger was made apparent, no necessity shewn, no notoriety established, and yet the house was called upon to pass this act of suspension of the liberties of the people of Ireland, as it were by acclamation, and with no more than twenty-four hours notice. He admitted, as was done by the noble lord who moved the amendment, that the measure might be necessary, but there was no proof of it. There was some reason for it in the former instance; he thought there was reason for it; but the ministers did not think proper to give them they now. If it should be admitted that the enemy having Irish officers, and Irish general, should be a justification of sus-
 526
 Sir John Newport  observed, that in every instance adduced by the hon. and learned gent. there was either inquiry, or something equivalent to it; there was some message from the king, or some communication in the speech from the throne. Now there was nothing relative to this subject in the speech from the throne, and the speech on the address, which was generally supposed to be the production of his majesty's ministers, stated Ireland to be tranquil. How then could it be said, after so short a lapse of time, that there was so notorious a spirit of rebellion as to preclude inquiry? The Habeas Corpus Act having been restored since the rebellion of 1798, he considered it now as suspended  de novo, res integra;
 Sir W. Young  said, he would oppose, in every stage of it, a measure, the very agitation of which, had been productive of irreparable mischief. The hon. gent. seemed to wish to avail himself of the success of his bill in that house in the last session, as a kind of precedent which ought to be followed, and to have it in contemplation to push the affair forward with a rapidity which its importance would not warrant. He called on gentlemen to give the subject complete consideration, to examine all the documents relative to it with the most serious attention, and not to forget that in their decision was implicated a very material branch of the commerce of the country, to which our power in general, and more particularly our naval power, was to be attributed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and addressed the committee as follows: Mr. Alexander; the first article of supply that has been voted, to which I shall call the attention of the committee, is the supply for the naval service. The total amount of what has been already voted, exclusive of the sum of 390,000l for ordnance sea service, is 14,645,630l. exceeding by 2,600,000l. the amount of what was voted last year for the same service. The excess has arisen from the sum of 1,800,000l. for the expences attending the 20,000 additional seamen voted this year, and for the increase in the extraordinaries and transport service. The next article of supply is the army; there has been already voted under this head, the sum of 10,000,000l. for guards, garrison, militia, & c. I will not detain the committee by going over the different items, but there remain still two articles to be voted, the estimate of the extraordinaries, and of the expences of the volunteer corps; in the latter article there may be some small diminution, but I will take the amount at 1,100,000l. The extraordinaries I calculate to amount to the same as last year, 3,660,000l. These two items, added to the total of ten millions, make an aggregate sum, exclusively of the expence under the same head for Ireland, of 14,778,391l. which is an exceeding beyond tile last year of about 300,100l. For Ireland, under the head of army, there has been already voted the sum of 2,838,000l. To these remain to be voted the sum of 300,000l. and the same sum for the expence of volunteer corps, making the whole amount for Ireland 3,838,506l. The total amount of the votes for the army, therefore, for both countries will be
 544 545 546
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —I do not intend, sir, to take up more than a very few moments of the time of the committee doubtless, meant the proposal respecting the vote for 5 millions to be as conditional as it has been spoken of by the hon. gent. I certainly did not mean the house to be pledged to the application of that sum, without full evidence of the policy of such a measure; only when the subject of the general ways and means for the year were before the house, I did think it right to bring before the committee the amount which I apprehended would be necessary, in case certain events should take place. Hat as to the time of applying that sum, the manner of its application, those circumstances of the state of Europe under which it may be wise and politic to apply it, on all, that the house will hereafter decide. Other motives induced me to bring the subject forward now. I thought it necessary, not to defer the vote, because nothing can take place in the state of things that has not taken place, except either the acquiescence or the refusal of the powers of the continent to enter into an alliance with us. On the other hand, it was desirable that the business should be brought forward early in the session, because from the lateness of the period at which this session commenced, if we did not provide for the vote now we should drive it later into April, when near a quarter's interest would unnecessarily attach to it, which, on the fair supposition of the funds being worse than they are now, would occasion a diminution of our means of providing for the general loan. Now, sir, as to the vote in itself, I could only say, that with regard to voting a subsidy of 5 millions for continental purposes, when the day comes for the house to take such a proposal into consideration, gentlemen will do as they please; in the state of the question at this moment they are pledged to nothing. With respect to the observations on the mode in which this subject has been brought forward to night, there is no informality at all in bringing the question forward in the committee of ways and means. It is, most certainly, not unconstitutional. I still agree with the hon. gent, as to his general doctrine, that this and similar votes ought never to be pri-
 556 557
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it sufficient to quiet the hon gentleman's alarms, to state, that, in order to come to the point he stated, we should continue at war 94 years.
 Mr. Fox  denied that the arguments for the increase of the property tax were such as applied to all taxes. For when a house tax became too high, a man might avoid it by ceasing to keep any house; but property was a thing by which there could be no limit till the whole was taken. With respect to wine, tea, or any other articles of consumption, taxation might proceed without reserve, because the individual would always have it in his power, as soon as the tax became oppressive and intolerable to him, to desist from them, He therefore preferred taxation of this sort to proceeding on dangerous principles, taking
 558
 Mr. Fox. —It is not my intention, sir, long to detain the committee on the present occasion; but as the right hon. gent. has dwelt on the state of the continent in terms which, if I remained silent, might appear to be unexceptionable, I will trouble the house with a few observations. As far as the general sentiment of the state of the continent reaches, it has my hearty assent; but if it should be sought to pledge us by any thing which has transpired this night, as to the time when aid ought to be given to the continental powers, or any opinion as to continental alliances, in the, existing situation of this country and Europe, and considering too, the difficulty of forming any such, which the right hon. gent, himself has not disguised from usin his speech, I should, sir, for one, and I rather think the committee would be inclined to differ with the right hon. gent. In the mode of bringing this subject forward, which is of a nature unconstitutional, there is a palpable irregularity. Heretofore, every matter of vote was previously brought forward in a committee of supply, whereas, in this instance, it is first agitated in a committee of ways and means. The committee of supply is, however, the only regular place fur such a business: for the house ought, first of all, regularly to decide in a committee on the propriety of the vote, its amount, the time of granting the supply, and all the other preliminary circumstances, of the transaction. And if there was no reason for extraordinary dispatch, all this might as well have happened on the present occasion. From the course that has been taken, we might be supposed to agree to the propriety of the sum; and not even to object to an almost immediate appropria-
 553 554 555
 Mr. Alexander  brought up the report of the committee of ways and means of yesterday. Several resolutions were read and agreed to without any discussion. Upon the resolution being read, which goes to state the agreement of the house to the levy of an additional 25 per cent, on the property tax,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that it was not strictly an exemption, but a forbearance for a time, till the instalments should he paid up. When the loan was converted into stock, and the first dividend was paid, then it would of course become subject to the tax as well as other property.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declared himself rather unprepared to give the hon. gent, a satisfactory answer; but he certainly did not propose to vote this sum without reserve, or without subjecting the Company to be called to an account for what may be due from its revenues to this country. The, vote now called for had no relation to, much less did it annul, any prior engagement; but both the hon. gentlemen were mistaken as to the purport off the act of 1793, which enjoined, that, after the Company should pay its dividends and expences, and have a surplus to a certain amount, then out of that surplus, it was to contribute half a million towards the general finances of the country, and be at liberty to apply the remainder to the increase of its dividends. This subject would best be referred to a future discussion, when the state of the East India) finances should be brought before them; but it surely would be allowed, that the Revenue and resources of the Company might be very prosperous, and yet, by the-intervention of two or three unexpected wars, be rendered inapplicable to the aid of the national revenue.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained, that the surplus so often mentioned was only stated to arise out of the territorial revenues of the Company, of which parliament had no right to claim any share, until it was brought home by investments, and all the charges on it paid. That indeed might be made the subject of a future claim; but as to the territorial revenue, parliament had no immediate right to interfere with it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had already given the salt tax the fullest consideration, and that he should certainly persist in it, as he was certain it was not liable to the objections which the hon. gentleman who spoke last had urged against it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had but one word to say in reply. He was disposed to pay every respect to the, right hon. gent, to whom the hon. gent, had alluded; and he could not prove that disposition better than by adopting his conduct. The report had been made about 4 years since, when there was no war; and yet while that right hon. gent, continued a member of this house, no motion had been made for the reduction of the duty on salt, or for carrying into effect the report of the committee. He insisted, that both the hon. members who had spoken against this tax were mistaken as to its operation; for, considering how small a proportion fell on the lower orders of the people, he did not think there was a single article of general consumption that could be found better adapted to the purpose of raising a large sum of money with so little, pies-sure and inconvenience to the mass of the people.
 Mr. Rose  argued, that the drawback was a complete answer to every objection that could be drawn from the fisheries against this measure. The additional tax, in fact, was calculated to operate rather as a bounty, as it increased the amount of the advantage the fisheries already enjoyed over others. In regard to the injury individuals might sustain from having speculated in this article without receiving any previous notice of the measure now in question, he did not think much was to be apprehend* ed. In Hampshire, the county with which he was perhaps best acquainted, he was not aware that any such speculation bad taken place, or that any Lad consequences would result from it. He denied that it was a duty, the collection of which was attended with any extraordinary charges. The charge, he stated, did not amount to above 20,000l. and that therefore the duty was collected for not more than 2 per cent. This additional duty besides, he added, would be attended with no additional charge, as the expence attending the collection of the present duty would not be increased by its rise.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  supported the expediency of the privilege of franking, but not altogether for the reasons given by the right hon. gent, who spoke last. The privilege was one that afforded a very great accommodation to the public. It enabled the members to carry on the very important business of their constituents, and frequently they must have various and extensive transactions to discuss. Hence the privilege was not only a distinction, but a most useful, if hot indispensable appendage to the function of a legislator. As to the saving that could accrue from the abrogation of the privilege, that again was, in the view of the subject of revenue, the least considerable in the world; for it would not amount to more than 40,000l. a year. He did not, however, by any means wish to tax agriculture heavily; and the tax under consideration had no such tendency. No man would think that arable farms would, by this increase of seven shillings and six-pence on the tax on horses used in husbandry, be taxed so as to injure agriculture, or induce the farmer or landowner to discontinue employing all the capital he now employed in arable farms. He agreed also with the right hon. gent, that no such mark of disinterestedness was required of them by the country. The fact was, that in the whole history of parliament, there never was a time when so great a proportion of the taxes were thrown on the higher orders of the community.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the tax would only attach on property mow convertible to its uses; so that the underwood, which would not be fit to cut these 14 years, would for that period not be liable to the tax.—The other resolutions were now put, agreed to, and bills ordered.—Adjourned.
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. gent. and stated, that the practice of the house was first to read the bill, previous to offering any amendment.
 Lord Henry Petty  said, he did not vise to occupy the attention of the house any farther, than by adverting to a precedent for a similar proceeding, quoted by an hon. and learned gent. (Mr. Ward) on a former evening, when he said, that the Habeas Corpus Act had been suspended in 1722, without any inquiry respecting the existence of any necessity for it having been instituted by parliament. Having since had time to examine into the grounds of that assertion, he thought it right to shew, though he did not see the hon. and learned gent, then in his place, that the two cases bore no analogy whatever to each other. At that time at least two-thirds of the king's speech were employed in pointing out the necessity there was for the house adopting such a measure. Even then, after considerable discussion upon the subject, there was,-he believed, the largest minority against it that was ever known in that house. And it was not finally agreed to, until sir R. Walpole, then one of his majesty's principal confidential ministers, had pledged himself that be would shortly lay such facts before parliament as would most fully justify him in having proposed such a measure. The disclosure of these facts, which took place
 561
 Mr. Fox  rose, and requested, some explanation of the nature of the exemption from the property tax, allowed, to the holders of the loan. He did not altogether understand it as it was formerly stated.
 Mr. Kinnaird  said, he had been expecting every moment to see some member from the North follow the patriotic example of the hon. gent, who had just sat down. As none of those hon. gent, however, had yet thought proper to rise, he would take the liberty of taking that duty on himself. The North in general, and the Highland* of Scotland in particular, that depended so much on their fisheries, would be considerable sufferers from this rise in the duty on an article so essential to the fisheries. The drawback he would allow removed in a considerable degree that objection; but there were many instances in which the drawback could not be easily obtained, particularly by such as employed the salt for their own use only. He contended that the exhorbitant rise of this article was every way impolitic, and believed that it would add considerably to the discontent of the lower orders, against the war in which we had engaged.
 Mr. Johnstone  allowed that the salt employed in the fisheries was free of duty, but contended that there were so many difficulties and impediments thrown in the way, that it was often difficult to get at the drawback.
 Mr. Johnstone  agreed, that the Company might have a just claim upon the public, but what he complained of was, that after declaring that they had a surplus of a million, instead of paying out of it what they owed to the country, the house should be called upon to discharge an old debt to them.
 Mr. Johnstone  expressed his regret to see so little disposition in the house to examine closely into the subject of these resolutions, which was of so important a nature, that he should not feel that he did his duty, if he passed it over in silence. The house, he was sorry to say, was not put in a state to judge so accurately on the subject as it ought to have been. Certain accounts had been ordered by act of parliament to be annually laid before the house. It was true, that they were not in strictness required to be laid on the table previous to the 25th of March; but since the budget had been brought forward so early this session, it might have been expected that the accounts deluded to should, have been presented in time sufficient to enable the house to examine the subject with the requisite degree of information. We wanted an account of the public income and an account of the disbursements. The distribution paper ought also to have been presented sooner, with an account of the consolidated fund, A confusion also arose from its being stated that the expenditure would be 44 millions, and provision was made only for 35 millions. Then, there was a million for the East India Company.
 563 564
 Mr. H. Lascelles  hoped the right hon. gent, would take some further time to consider on some of-these taxes. He agreed with the hon. bart. who had just sat down, as to the duty on horses used in agriculture, and, that it would prove a great check to it. He-referred to what passed last session
 571
 Mr. R. Martin (of Galway)  rose and stated, that it was his intention to propose an amendment. Understanding that the principal ground for passing the bill, without instituting a previous inquiry, was the notoriety that a treasonable disposition existed in certain parts of Ireland, he trusted that he should have the support of those who maintained that such notoriety existed, in the amendment he should propose. To be consistent with themselves they could not withhold their assent to his proposition, which would go directly to the asserting of what they had invariably stated as the true grounds for the suspension.
 Mr. R. Martin  stated, that it was his intention to embody in the bill the reasons which had been given for passing it. The measure would not be operative in. its effects, unless it were general, and applicable to every part of the united kingdom. As the law stood now, and as it would stand under this bill, persons may come from Ireland to this country, and carry on their machinations with safety against the constitution of that part of the union, To counteract this, he submitted to his majesty's govt. whether it would not be advisable to extend the salutary operation of the bill before them, to Great Britain as well as Ireland. How could the two countries be said to be identified, if martial law was to be established, and the Habeas Corpus Act suspended in one and not in the other? If it was not necessary that the two countries should be identified, he could, conceive no measure so well calculated to give it proof, as the bill-before them. For the purpose of making out sortie sort of justification of the measure, and of affording some supporters of the bill a plausible ground for the vote they, should give, he would propose, that, the preamble of the bill should commence
 562
 Colonel Calcraft  stated, in explanation, that according to the report of the committee in 1801, the collection of the salt duty was attended with an expence of 100,000l. a year. Since that period perhaps the duty might have been collected at less; but if they might trust the report of that committee, the annual charge of that duty was as he had stated it up to the period of that report.
 Colonel Calcraft  expressed a hope that the right hon. gentleman would reconsider that proposition. At a time when the lower order of the people were peculiarly
 566
 Mr. Fuller,  in reference to the tax on property, mentioned the case of one who should have much underwood, but which would not be in a yielding state for 14 years to come; now the present tax would attach on that kind of property, he apprehended, as much as if it was at this moment vendible, or as if it yielded a profit.
 Mr. Sheridan  did not rise for the purpose of entering into a debate, but was called upon by the peremptory tone in which the right hon. gent, had declared-his intentions to persevere in the tax. The right hon. gent, had stated his opinion that the tax would produce more than any other he knew of with less pressure; but he could assure that right hon. gent, that no tax could operate so grievously, oppressively, and grindingly, Salt was an article of the most indispensable necessity to the poor. All their provisions of fish, pork, & c. required a considerable quantity of it, and potatoes, now so happily become a general source of food for the poor, were
 567
 Mr. Egerton  said, it always gave him pain to be obliged to say any thing against the taxes proposed for raising the necessary supplies; but, as the representative of the county of Chester, he could not avoid saying that that county would feel the
 568
 Mr. Windham  disagreed with the hon. bart. on this point, and hoped the house did not stand so low in the estimation of the public as to be obliged to prove its disinterestedness by a paltry sacrifice of this nature, which would be of no serious importance to the revenue. In fact, this privilege of members was to themselves a mere feather in their cap; a thing that was pleasant to them, as giving them a power of conferring small favours, and; as had been before observed, was almost the only little privilege that belonged to them, as members, which was independent of the favour of ministers. But with respect to the public, this privilege was important. It occasioned a much greater intercourse between the members and their constituents than there would otherwise be, and therefore contributed to give them more information of the wishes and; true interests of the public. This was not
 570
 Sir Evan Nepean  moved the order of the day for the 3d reading of the Irish Habeas Corpus Suspension bill.
 Mr. Francis  said a few words upon the subject of the million which was to be paid to the East India Company. This was the second time that parliament was called on to make an advance to them of the same amount; and yet every statement which was made of their finances, declared that they were at present in the most prosperous situation, and held out the most flattering prospect of increasing wealth in future. He would not say, that nothing was now owing by government to the Company; but he could not help remarking, that the 500,0001. which they had covenanted annually to pay the public, was never stated to have been actually so paid but once. But, in fact, there was no parliamentary evidence of the existence of the debt. The house had, indeed, the word of a right hon. gent, that it was so; but that was not a parliamentary ground Upon which they had a right to dispose of the public money; and it was evident to him, that neither the former nor the present sum ought to be paid without a parliamentary inquiry, and a satisfactory proof being given to the house of the existence of the debt. If it was proved that the debt did originally, exist, the house would then have to inquire, whether or no it was liquidated, or nearly liquidated. The Company would then have to give in an account of their stock, and would be obliged to make a deduction according to the state of the account between them and the public. If the statement given in the course of last session was strictly true, and that in reality the Company's debt from the country was neatly liquidated, than the legal consequence ought to be, that the Sum now required to be advanced
 565
 Sir Robert Buxton  opposed the tax on horses employed in husbandry; he thought it founded on impolicy, and injustice. On impolicy, because it would operate to the great detriment of a branch of our national industry, of all others the most essential to our well-being as a state; on injustice, because it would bear unequally on the subject, nay, that it would operate on only one class of people, the farmers of the kingdom. Instead of laying an additional fax of this sort, why did not gentlemen give up their privilege of franking, which would shew the people that the members of the House of Commons were ready to make sacrifices in their turn. The hon. bart. deprecated the idea of the war having excited disgust among the public. He believed there never was a war, the necessity and justice of which were more universally felt and acknowledged,
 Sir Robert Buxton,  was ready to give the right hon. gent, every credit for the disposition he had always shewn to relieve the lower orders from the weight of the burdens of the state.
 Mr. Canning  said, however be might differ from the arguments and sentiments; that had been stated by his right hon. friend, he did not differ with him as to the grounds upon which he proposed the motion that had been just submitted to the
 615 616 617 618 619 620 621 622 623
 Mr. Windham  rose to explain. He did not mean to imply the army should be excused from the service in the West Indies; he intended only to intimate that much of the peril of that duty might be avoided by some salutary regulations.
 Mr. Windham,  in rising to submit to the house the motion of which he had given notice on the first day of the session, could not forbear calling the attention of gentlemen to the numerous postponements that had taken place with respect to it, none of which, excepting the last, had originated with himself. The only delay that was chargeable to him was rendered desirable and necessary by many considerations. The motion he was about to offer was almost precisely the same as that offered by
 591 592 argumentum ad homines; 593 594 595 596 597 598 599 600 victoria. 601 altum silentium. 602 603 604 605 606 607 608 609 610 611 ne plus ultra. 612 613 614
 Sir William Young  rose in reply, and animadverting on the assertion of the right hon. gent. who spoke last, that no care was made out to justify the house in adopting the motion of his right hon. friend, proceeded to shew, that a case was made out, and that it required attention only to the documents before parliament, to put that case in a clear and strong light, and which no declamation or sophistry could overshadow and obscure. If, said the hon. baronet, in December 1803, parliament voted a very considerable augmentation of military force, under a general sense of the danger and exigencies of the country, and the necessity of going far beyond an army suited merely to defence; if that vote has not been given effect; if a total failure of increasing our infantry of the line has occurred; and if even the British regular infantry have decreased in numbers from Jan. 1804 to Jan. 1805, surely such failure, to be attributed only to the inefficiency of the measures adopted by parliament, or to neglect or incapacity of executive ministers to give their measures effect, constitutes a case for enquiry, and for going into a committee (as proposed) for a revision of the laws passed with a view to military levies, and of the exertions and measures adopted by ministers for the like purpose.—By the returns on the table, the total army, exclusive of militia, was in Jan. 1804, 143,251 men. Under strong impressions of; the nature and magnitude of the contest in which we were engaged, and with a view to active warfare, and offensive operations, loudly called for by every statesman, nay, by every man in the country who had a sense of the, true interests, honour, or Very safety of the British dominion, parliament in Dec. 9, 1803, voted an army of 191,099 men, being an addition of 47,848 men to the then effective force.—Under law as such as have passed, measures such
 624 
 
 1804 1805 
 The cavalry from 17117 are 21223 and 
 have increased 4046 
 The artillery from 7661 are 8517 and 
 have incensed 898 
 The foreign troops 13890 are 21208 and 
 have increased 7318 
 Making an increase in above services of 12261 625 626 
 
 For Mr. Windham's motion, 96 
 Against it, 242 
 Majority against the motion, 146
 Mr. Fox  rose. He said, that the public business ought not to be made to wait for any member of that house. He certainly would not wait. He should move the order of the day.—The order of the day for the second reading of the Horse Duty bill was then read, upon, which the hon. gent, observed, that he did not wish to determine the course of the public business. What he thought was, that it would he highly improper in the house to suffer the business of the public to wait for any man.
 Mr. Grey  concurred in the propriety of giving notice. He understood now that an examination of the case had taken place before the commissioners of Naval Enquiry, respecting the conduct of sir Home Popham. He was well pleased that this was the case, and undoubtedly it was of importance that every paper that could throw any light on this affair should be produced. At the same time, it was not usual to move for a paper of this nature; but, as the hon. baronet, who was a member of the commission, had no objection, it might, with the greatest propriety, be received.
 Mr. Grey  said, that if the right hon gent. had any charge to bring against the commissioners of naval inquiry, he had no doubt it would be fully met.
 Mr. Canning  observed, that the essential reason for the motion was this: it had been said in the house, that the commissioners, when directed to investigate this affair by the Admiralty, returned for answer, that it was not a matter within their province, but was rather a subject for a court martial. The hon. baronet (sir Charles Pole) had then omitted to state, through inadvertency, he had no doubt, that the commissioners had, however, proceeded with the investigation. Now it did happen, that we had the testimony of one Lewis, a most material witness, who could not, however, be heard at the bar of the house. It was necessary that we should, in this case, have the best possible evidence. It was fortunate that this man was brought forward as an evidence, as they had travelled out of their way to investigate this affair. He begged leave, therefore, to follow up the notice just now given by some other notices. He would move for the date of the paper containing the directions of the Admiralty or Navy Board, to the commissioners for proceeding in this affair; the date of the reference of the case back again to the Admiralty or Navy Board, by the commissioners; together with a copy of any answer made by the commissioners of naval enquiry to any communication from the Admiralty.
 Sir William Burroughs  osberved, that the papers laid on the table relative to the conduct of an hon. baronet, who commanded the Red Sea squadron, rendered it necessary that other papers should be produced. He therefore moved, "that a copy of the examination before the commissioners of naval enquiry, relative to the management of the squadron in the Red Sea, under Sir Home Popham, should be laid on the table."
 Sir Charles Pole  did not see the smallest objection to this paper; but, as it was certainly a motion of a novel nature, he thought that some previous notice ought to have been given.
 Sir Charles Pole  observed, that he had never stated that the commissioners of naval inquiry bad refused to proceed with
 629
 Sir Robert Buxton  said, that there were some amendments intended to be made in the bill; and therefore thought that; the order ought to be postponed to Tuesday next.—This was agreed to and the house adjourned.
 Mr. Baker  presented a petition from Mr. Bowyer, proprietor of the historic gallery, in Pall-Mali, praying leave to bring in a bill, to enable him to dispose of the pictures and engravings byway of lottery. Ordered to be referred to a committee.— Mr. White presented at the bar the names of the members forming the committee to try the merits of the Knaresborough election, which are as follow: lord H. Petty, Robert Adair, esq. lord; viscount Boyle, lord Louvaine, T. Tyrrwhitt, esq. T. Foley, esq. lord W. Russell, sir W. Milner, lord viscount Ebrington, lord Ossulston, sir R. Lawley, bart. H. Holland, esq. hon. G. L. Dundas: Nominees, hon. C. Grey. C. W. Dundas, Esq.— Mr. Creevy rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the postponement of the order, which stood for Thursday, for considering the petition of certain electors of Middlesex, relative to the qualification of Mr. Mainwaring, the sitting member. The hon. member stated his reason for the motion to be this, that till the committee at present sitting on the subject of the Middle-
 633 634
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that such an account could not be obtained in time for the discussion to which the hon. member alluded; and suggested, that from the return on the table respecting the number of men obtained under the act, there could be no difficulty in forming an estimate sufficiently accurate with regard to the point to which the motion referred.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there could be no doubt of the fact, that Bartholomew was taken by the press-gang. Would it not therefore be the better way to use those words in describing a fact which came the nearest to the transaction itself? Why not say, "taken by a press-gang and carried to the Nore".
 Mr. Grey  observed, with respect to the objection to the word he had used, that Bartholomew did actually belong to the navy at the time he had absented himself from service; that notwithstanding the order to sir Home Popham, he was on shore, and on this being heard and considered, the lieutenant of the press-gang took him, and carried him back to the service to which he belonged.
 Mr. Grey,  in the absence of an hon. friend (Mr. Kinnaird) made the motions of which his hon. friend had given notice on a former day, with some others, which he thought necessary to add to them. The papers moved for were; 1, an account of all repairs, & c. of the Romney, when fitted out in Sept. and Oct. 1800, and the expence attending the same; 2, an account of all repairs or alterations of the masts and hull of the Romney, in the months of Oct. Nov. and Peel 1800, together with the expences of the same; 3, the last report of the survey or examination of the Sensible, and the expence of the repairs of 1800, with the amount of the stores furnished to the said ship; 4, an account of all repairs done to the Romney and Sensible,'and other ships under the command of sir Home Popham, and of all stores furnished to the said ships, particularizing the separate expences of each ship, and amount of stores; 5, an account of all the expences, repairs, &c. of the Romney and other vessels under the command of sir Home Popham at the Cape of Good Hope; particularizing the stores, and specifying the quality, quantity, and price of each article; 6, an account of the naval stores, & c, purchased by Mr. Spearman in the Red Sea, and all other disbursements made for the vessels under sir Home Popham, while in that sea; with the vouche:5 for the same; 7, an account of the terms of service, bounties received, the discharges,
 636
 Mr. Grey  said, he had no wish to make use of any word that might be unnecessarily hurtful to the feelings of any person; but the whole of the enquiry might be objected to on much the same grounds.
 Mr. Grey  presented a petition from Wm. Mitchell, Esq. capt. of his majesty's ship the Zealand. The petitioner complained of certain false statements and misrepresentations contained in letters from, and an affidavit by, David Ewing Bartholomew, which lies on the table of the house, in which the said Bartholomew charges petitioner with ill-treating him while on board the Zealand, in consequence, as Bartholomew stated, of his being known to be a witness in favour of sir Home Popham. Petitioner therefore prayed, that an order should be made, that copies of the letters and affidavit which he had addressed to the secretary of the admiralty, in reference to allegations of Bartholomew's affidavit, should be laid before the house; and also that he, the petitioner, should be furnished with Copies of the letters and affidavit of Bartholomew. Petitioner further prayed, that he might be called to the bar of the house, to answer the charges against him, and that the house would afford him such opportunity of vindicating his honour, as to its judgment should seem meet. The petition was ordered to lie on the table, and orders were made, on the motion of Mr. Grey, for the papers referred to in the said petition. On the motion of Mr. W, Dickenson, a copy was ordered to be laid before the house of the certificate of Mr. Bartholomew having passed his examination for a lieutenancy; also, a copy of the muster roll of the Enterprize relative to the taking of Mr. Bartholomew by a press-gang
 Mr. Canning  moved, for copies of all correspondence between the lords of the. admiralty and the commissioners for naval enquiry on the subject of sir Home Popham; also between the admiralty and the navy board, with the dates, and particularly the date of the order of the navy board for sending the papers relating to sir Home Popham to the commissioners for naval enquiry; also an account of what took place before the commissioners on this subject.
 Admiral Markham,  conceiving the case respecting the hon. baronet would be incom-
 639
 Admiral Markham  said, that according to the speech of the hon. baronet, it would be thought Mr. Bartholomew was some young gentleman known to many members of that house, instead of what he appeared to be on entering the service, a landsman and afterwards becoming an able
 638
 Admiral Markham  contended, that as Bartholomew never was discharged from the service at the time he left it, he could not be considered as a man impressed. He therefore must be of opinion that "apprehended" was the most proper word to be made use of in this instance. The orders sent to sir Home Popham were to turn over all the officers of the Romney. Why he did not do so remained for him to shew.
 Mr. Sheridan  wished the house should be furnished with the fullest information on the points to which the motions of his hon. friend alluded, but desired it to be understood, that he would by no means consent to postpone his motion.
 Mr. Whitbread  was anxious to obtain the information which his motion had in view, even if it could not be had previous to the day fixed by his hon. friend, as it might be necessary upon subjects of future discussion. The hon. member also moved, for an account of all penulties assessed on parishes for deficiencies under the act; and also, for that which might become a subject of future discussion, an account of any and what separate rates had been levied upon parishes in conse-
 635
 Mr. Whitbread  moved for copies of all circular letters addressed by the secretaries of state to the lieutenants of counties relative to the execution of this act.— This and the other motions of the hon member were agreed to, as was a motion of Mr. Sheridan, for an account of the number of men raised under this act, from the last return up to the latest period at which the same could be made out.
 Mr. Whitbread,  referring to the notice which had been given by an hon. friend of his (Mr. Sheridan) relative to the act of last session for raising an Additional Force, observed, that he thought it necessary, in order to enable the house to judge of the merits of that act, that certain information should be obtained with respect to its operation and effect. As the act of the last session particularly purported to have in view the filling up the deficiencies of the army of reserve and militia, he should move for, an account of the number of men deficient in the army of reserve on the 29th of June last; also, for an account of the deficiency in the several regiments of the militia, at the same period, distinguishing the original from the supplementary militia. The hon. member also moved, for an account of all the bounties paid by parish officers under the act alluded to.
 Sir W. Burroughs  objected to the word "apprehended." He thought it was too hurtful to the feelings, and should therefore prefer "taken up," or any other expression.
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  said, that some circumstances relating to Mr. Bartholomew, made part of the defence, of sir Home Popham before the admiralty and that house.
 Sir Home Popham  said, that he had, no
 637
 Sir Robert Buxton  saw no objection to tins motion but the difficulty of complying with it from the mode of keeping parish accounts.
 Earl Temple  said, he was not going to delay the discussion for a moment, but there was a point which he could wish to have clearly explained; he came to the house under a conviction that goverment had entered into a contract with certain West India merchants, for a number of slaves to be purchased at a stated price, and to be furnished at a certain time; the number 5000,and the time, December. His right hon. relation said that no contract had been entered into for soldiers to that amount. But since he had heard that explanation, he had made enquiry, and he understood the matter to be thus, (if not true, his right hon. relation would inform
 674
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said he knew nothing of the transaction to which the noble lord alluded—The question being called for, the house divided upon the amendment of General Gascoyne, when there appeared
 Mr. Barham  said, that he was convinced that as an hon. gentleman below him had said, this was the time for the abolition of the slave trade, if it was to be done at all, he was satisfied that it was now practicable, that it was always desirable, but that now it was necessary. There were four points to which he wished to call the attention of the house; 1st. the general policy of the measure; 2d. its practicability; 3d. the danger arising to the colonies from not promoting it; and, lastly, the justice of the thing. As to the general policy, it was once said that this traffic was absolutely necessary. This assertion was, however, partly abandoned. This individual branch of trade would certainly be destroyed; but as it was only a small part, this was of less importance: 2dly, with regard to the practicability of the measure, he was once of Opinion that it was not practicable; and if the same circumstances had existed he would have been still of the same opinion. The capitals would once have been certainly carried away into foreign countries, but now the case was altered. Instead of engaging their capitals in hazardous specuculation, the merchants and planters would rather bring them home if necessary. Slaves could not now be smuggled into Jamaica from St. Domingo. He had no doubt that if the measure was passed now, it would succeed. It was not likely that the traffic would pass into other hands. Other nations had given indications of their intentions to put an end to the slave trade. He knew that no change could be adopted which would not be attended with danger. But was there no danger in continuing the trade? The proportion of negroes to the white inhabitants of the colonies was daily increasing. The traffic was constantly adding to the disproportion, and the desire of liberty was inflamed by every cargo of fresh imported negroes. Regard was to be had to the situation of St. Domingo, where there was no people to enter into competition with us in the West Indies. The danger of abolishing the trade was less, then, than that of continuing it. In the case of a man who laboured under a disease, what would a wise physician do? He applied the remedy while the patient was capable of receiving it; and thus stood the affair with respect to our West India
 654
 Mr. Huddlestone  said, it was his purpose to have gone somewhat at large into the present important question and the consideration which it involved; but the most essential of the points which he should have endeavoured to establish, had been enforced by other gentlemen with a degree of knowledge and ability so superior to any that he could have brought to the subject, that if he were to proceed in the course he had intended, he should, weaken the impression which their speeches cannot fail to have made both on the understanding and the feelings of every member present. The task, therefore, which he had prescribed to himself was much curtailed; but relying, as he knew he might, on the candour and indulgence of the house, he would not entirely forego this opportunity of lifting his voice (feeble as it must prove) in reprobation of that monstrous traffic, the toleration of which has so long been the opprobrium of the British legislature. It was far from his intention to charge this sin upon the nation at large; for well he remembered the nation at large had testified its abhorrence of it, by universally petitioning for its abolition; and it has since been a matter of astonishment to all Christendom., that those who are the constitutional guardians of British freedom should sanction elsewhere the most detestable system of op pression and cruelty that ever disgraced a civilized nation. He said he never conversed with an advocate of this traffic who chose to give a direct or serious answer to these simple questions.—Is it just to exercise this trade?. Is it honourable to any govt. particularly one, the very essence of whose system is freedom, and whose highest boast is to secure it to the poor as well as to the rich? Is it houourable in such a govt. to encourage or permit this trade?— He repeated, that he never could obtain a direct or serious answer to either of these questions. One has said, "you are mistaken; the slaves are, in fact, very happy much happier than the labouring poor in England." But he omitted to state in what their happiness consisted —Another has answered; "would you have us drink our tea without sugar?" In other words, "would you abridge us Englishmen of part of our comforts merely to avoid mak-
 663 664 665 666 667 668
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not rise with any intention of entering into the debate, but merely in explanation of a circumstance which bad been stated positively, and which he believed had been very much misunderstood. Several of the hon. gentlemen who bad spoken, had talked of a contract which govt. had made for purchasing 5 or 6000 slaves in Africa. He had heard of no such contract; and did not believe there could be such a one existing. Such a proposition was made to govt. and the suggestion came from the West Indies; but it was immediately rejected. He believed the govt. had never conceived the idea of buying slaves for their use, as had been represented: their idea was very different, it was to purchase the redemption of those persons from a state of slavery whom govt. wished to employ as soldiers. This was an idea totally different from that of becoming purchasers of slaves, and would not be inconsistent with any opinion that might be given on the general question now before the house for the consideration of its members.
 The Speaker  observed, that according to the custom of the house, none but a member originating a new motion, had the right of general reply to any objections made against it, and therefore the hon. gent, possessed no such right.
 General Tarleton. —Sir; I consider it as a duty incumbent on me to oppose this measure with all the ability which I possess. The question is such, that it certainly deserves the most serious deliberation, and the coolest investigation of the house, t trust, therefore, that the reasons urged against the measure will be heard and weighed with all that candour that becomes an assembly such as this. In the opening part of the speech of the gentleman who has just sat down, he said that now or never was the time to put in practice the measure of the abolition. Sir, I see nothing in the present time that, in this respect, peculiarly distinguishes it from former times. At all times, I have thought this a most ruinous measure, and the present time contains nothing to make me alter my opinion. In order to be convinced of the vast importance of this traffic in every respect, we have only to attend to the situation of Liverpool, and compare the state of that city with what it was not more than a century ago. Its population, about a hundred years ago, did not exceed 2,500. This population carried on its trade in about 100 barks. Its capital was then about 10,000l. What is its state now? It employs no less than about 5,000 ships,
 655 656
 Mr. Fox  said, he should trouble the house but very shortly, and be should not have done so at all if it had not been for some parts of the hon. baronet's speech, which he thought required some observations. The hon. baronet had talked a good deal about splendid theories Which had been, at different times brought forward in that house, and powerfully supported by eloquence, and which were afterwards dropped. For his part, he Was Utterly at a loss to conceive what splendid theory it was which the worthy baronet alluded to; but it appeared to be aft inference, which he chose to draw from his general positions, arid from his story of the Duke of Marlborough, that eloquence was So contrary to discrimination and judgment, that whenever the house heard an opinion eloquently and Well supported, they should, oh that account, rather presume it to be wrong. This would, indeed, be a very strange conclusion, and yet it followed, as clearly as possible, from what had fallen from the worthy bayonet. This great dread of eloquence was not peculiar to the worthy baronet. The Jacobins of France had also been much afraid of it was one of their maxims that there was
 661 662
 Mr. Hiley Addington  rose to express his opinion against the abolition of the trade; the question was certainly one of the greatest importance, and of vast magnitude, and the decision of it must be productive of great good, or of the most serious mischief. He was sorry to say, that the opinion he originally gave of the impracticability of the proposed abolition still remained unaltered. It was not from any want of consideration that his mind had not been changed; on the contrary, he had bestowed uncommon attention to the consideration of this question, from the circumstance of having the misfortune to differ in opinion from many hon. friends of his, and from some who possessed the most distinguished talents and highest endowments; he, at the first, thought the measure impracticable, and he thought so still, and he thought, moreover, that the cause of humanity had not been at all promoted by the agitation of the question, and was not likely to be benefited by its further discussion. He was aware that there was sort of popular odium attached to the defence of the existing slave
 658
 General Gascoyne  stated, that a proposition had been made from govt. to a merchant at Liverpool for the purchase of a number of the blacks alluded to, and he could tell the right hon. gent, that whoever accepted the contract, the blacks would be purchased on the coast of Africa. Of course his original statement on this subject was not incorrect,
 General Gascoyne  could not let the question go by without giving his opinion upon it once more. The hon. mover had said, that no new reason bad occurred since last session against the adoption of this measure. He should, however, rely upon the wisdom and upon the feelings of the house, upon a. measure so interesting and so important to the interests of this country, to our revenues, and even to our existence as a nation. He trusted the house would not consider any former pledge of this
 642 643 644 645
 Mr. Fuller. —am told, sir, that a contract is actually entered into by govt. to procure slaves as. troops for the West Indies at 551. per man. How this can be reconciled with the conduct of the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer on the present occasion, I am utterly at a loss to conceive. This is supporting a measure in one way, and opposing it in another. An hon. gent. had said that this was the proper time for abolishing the slave trade. This, sir, is in complete contradiction to the report of the assembly at Jamaica. This is not the proper time for this measure. There has not as yet been sufficient time for one of the parties to be heard. An hon. gent. has said that sufficient evidence has already been given. But this evidence has not been given on oath. Another reason against the abolition is that the plantations, especially the small ones, must absolutely be given up in case it is effected. It has been said, that foreign nations had given indications of abandoning this traffic. It is very easy for them, to be sure, to give it up, since they have lost almost all their colonies, and therefore have very little need of slaves; but is that the situation of this country? Another disadvantage which would result from the adoption of this measure is, that in such a case, we could scarcely find agents to manage our property in the West Indies. The great inducement to them for going out, is the chance of being able to procure slaves, and commence planters on a small scale at first for themselves. Unless a prospect of this kind is held out, it is certain that no people will remain in the colonies, avert for the management of our best estates. An hon. gent. has adverted to the want of compensation in this bill. Certainty it does happen, that in a bill that goes to deprive so many people of their property, there is not one clause to indemnify the sufferers, or their losses. Would this have been done even in a common turnpike bill? If the hon. gent. had proposed such a thing he would have been scouted from one end of the house to the other; and can the house be so indifferent respecting the colonies, that any person dares bring in a measure to treat them with such injustice, and by listened to with patience?
 657
 General Fitzpatrick  rose to state, some propositions Which he should feel it his duty to submit to the committee on this bill. In order to add to the solemnity of Courts Martial, and to prevent the infliction as much as possible of those severe punishments, which he knew were unfortunately necessary in some instances although in many they were almost worse
 641
 Mr. C. Brooke  said, if the abolition of the slave trade was rendered general by the consent of all those powers who had colonial possessions, he did not know that our colonies would suffer so much as those of other powers, from the superior resources which we possessed, and the high state of cultivation in which these colonies were. But the policy of France and Spain led these powers to continue this trade. During the phrenzy of the revolution in France, the slave trade was abolished, and that measure led to all those horrors which had since occurred in St. Domingo. After the peace, however, or rather the truce of Amiens, one of the first acts of the consular authority was to re-establish the slave trade; and not only this, but every encouragement was given to the subjects of France; bounties were granted upon the importation of slaves, and every facility was established which could promote the increase of the trade. Such was the policy of France at that time, and such continued to be the policy of France at the present moment. This being the case, what would be the effect of our abolishing the trade, but only to throw it into the hands of other nations. If we abolished the trade, it would not be the means of compelling those vessels which were at present engaged in it to give it up; they might, and many of them, no doubt, would continue it under the sanction of other powers. During the short period of the last peace every encouragement was given to British subjects engaged in this trade, to go to France with their vessels; they were allowed to navigate their own vessels with only the regulation of having a nominal French commander, and being engaged to take a number of French apprentices. This evinced the value which was set upon the trade by France, and the same encouragements would, doubtless, be held out in the event of another peace. Spain also gave every facility to the trade; but she was prevented from turning it much to advantage by the want of a commercial navy. She was only prevented, however,
 646
 Mr. Wilberforce  rose to move the second reading of the bill for the abolition of the slave trade. The hon. member stated, that the measure had been so often discussed, the sense of parliament had been so frequently taken upon it, and that house had so decidedly expressed its opinion upon the subject in the course of the last sessions, he felt it unnecessary to trespass upon the attention of the house on the present occasion, but reserved to himself the right of replying to any arguments that might be advanced against the motion he had the honour to submit.
 Mr. Wilberforce  proceeded to reply, and observed, he never had any idea of treating this traffic otherwise than as a traffic in consistent with justice and humanity; nor
 669 670 671 672 673
 Sir William Pulteney  said, he would not trouble the house at any length, but he wished to make a few observations. There was certainly a considerable difference of opinion, as to this bill. Some said it might be highly dangerous in its consequences; others, that it could not fail to be very advantageous. It was however ascertained, that the slave trade had been very advantageous to the West India islands. This bill was built on theory, and he was not fond of theories; they had been productive of too much mischief. The real fact was agreed upon by all parties to be this: the West Indies cannot be cultivated by Europeans, whose constitutions will not bear fatigue in that climate. It is therefore necessary, if they are to be cultivated at all, that it must be by some other class of the human species, who being natives of warm climates, are able to endure that degree of labour and fatigue which no Europeans could do in that climate. This being the acknowledged fact, the question, is, shall we abandon the cultivation of the West India islands altogether, or what class of the human species shall we employ to, cultivate them? Some say, that it is much better to employ free negroes than slaves, and that the labour of freemen would be more productive. This is, however, only a supposition, a mere theory, The fact is known to be, that the natives of warm countries are not naturally disposed to labour. In warm countries the climate produces the means of subsistence with so little labour, that they have no necessity, and consequently no inclination, for laborious work; and for that species of labour which was necessary for raising sugar and
 659 660
 Sir William Young. —Sir; in treating of this important question, the hon. mover' has contented himself with saying, that there is nothing new in it. Though we are now engaged in agitating a point which, materially concerns the British empire, though the ruin or salvation of one of its most valuable component parts may depend on the success or the failure of this project of his, he has had the boldness to say, that there is no occasion to hear the arguments of counsel on this subject! There is nothing new, he observes, and therefore he thinks that neither he nor any body else need say any thing about the matter; and, acting upon this opinion, he has given in his negative to calling in the counsel. Nothing new, sir! Has nothing new happened in the situation of St. Domingo? Have the hon. gent. and his friends entirely neglected to turn their attention to the interesting lesson which this island affords? Have they attended to the consequences that have resulted from the measures of emancipation pursued by a set of Jacobins in a moment of political phrenzy? If they have not attended to these things, what are we to think of their preparations for the discussion and management of an affair of this nature? If they have attended to them, can they produce any satisfactory evidence to shew that the same consequences which flowed from the Jacobin excesses, will not follow a similar decree of the British senate, supposing that we should have profited so little by the experience of France, and our own observation, as to pass such a decree? Is there nothing new in the situation of Jamaica? Has the hon. gent, seen the report of the assembly, or did he think it worth his while to read it? The assembly of that Island are so impressed with the pernicious, and absolutely ruinous consequences of this measure, that they have sent a confidential agent to this country, in order to resist, by every means in their power, its progress. When the interests of such faithful subjects of the British em-
 647 648 649 650 651 fiat justitia, fuat cœlum. 652 653
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  informed the house, that, upon looking into the bill for levying a duty upon horses, it was found that it would be impossible to divide it, as he had proposed doing on a former night. The body of the bill contained nothing but matter of regulation which might apply, generally, to the collection of the duty on any description of horses. The amount of the tax was afterwards specified in a schedule. He should therefore, move that the duty upon agricultural horses be expunged from the schedule, as that appeared to be the exceptionable part; and he would afterwards bring in a separate bill for the levying of that tax.—The bill as far as it relates to the tax upon all other horses but those employed in purposes of husbandry, was then passed through a committee of the whole house, and the report was ordered to be received on Monday.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he by no means meant to propose to the house, not to continue the act, if its continuation should be necessary; but, that he did not think it necessary to vote its continuance before any occasion for that measure should appear. He did not hesitate to say, that the reports of the commissioners had been attended with much benefit, neither had he any difficulty in declaring, that, if there was not sufficient time before the close of the session to terminate the investigation referred to them, their powers should be further continued. But it did not now appear that the remainder of the session would not afford sufficient time. On the review taken by the hon. and learned gent. himself of the subjects proposed for enquiry, only one of any great importance remained uninvestigated, that was the victualling department; the transport department and the others were of inferior importance. He saw no reason, however, to suppose that the commissioners might not be prepared to make their report of the victualling office now, nor that they had not at intervals turned their attention to the other remaining subjects of inquiry, on which no report had yet been made, in such a manner as to leave little to be done to make up what they would submit to the house respecting them. He thought it right, therefore, to wait till a more advanced period of the session, and then if it should be necessary, he should have no objection to the continuance. The hon. and learned gent. had thought proper to allude to another commission, which he considered as disrespectful to the house, though it was not very easy to see on what such an opinion was founded. The object of that commission was to carry into effect every improvement! which the reports of the commission had' suggested. It was rather singular, there-
 681
 The Chanceller of the Exchequer  said, that if the hon. member wished to arraign the conduct of the commissioners, the regular way would be, to move a day for the consideration of the reports on the table.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that notice had been given in the present session by a learned gent, (sir W. Scott), of his intention to bring in a bill for regulating prize agents.
 Mr. Bragge Bathurst  rose, not for the purpose of complying with the demand of any gentleman, whom he would not admit to have the right of personally requiring of him an explanation as to any change in his sentiments respecting the continuance of the commission, but to state his reasons for opposing the motion. After the candid manner in which the motion
 690
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in explanation stated, that some gentlemen seemed to misunderstand his observations with respect to the reports from the commission to which the motion before the house referred. He had said, that there were many important suggestions in those reports; but he would not be understood at all to pledge himself, to take any particular proceeding in consequence of those suggestions. This was a consideration upon which he held himself free to make up his mind.—The question being called for, a division took place:
 
 
 For Mr. Giles's motion, 75 
 For the amendment, 92— 
 Majority against the motion, 17
 Lord Henry Petty  did not see the necessity that in cases where great powers were confided by Parliament, the persons invested with those powers should be restricted in point of time. The proposal of his learned friend went no further than to give the bill the extent which it was now demonstrated to the satisfaction of the house it was originally intended it should have. He thought that parliament having once adopted the measure, was, in consistency, bound to continue it. There was little apprehension, that the ideas thrown out by some persons, respecting the danger which might result from the existence of such a commission, without any thing to operate upon, should ever be realised. The abuses which it was the object of it to discover and correct were numerous and notorious, and he hoped, that the advocates for passing strong measures, such as the suspension of the habeas corpus act in Ireland, upon the sole grounds of notoriety, would not deem themselves justifiable in opposing a measure founded on their own principles, and from the continuance of which it was universally allowed the public had derived the most extensive and important advantages.
 Lord Wm. Russell  said, that as he deemed the bill to be bad in principle, he must object to its being entertained at all, though, as there was other important business before them, he would not push his opposition so. far as to take the sense of the house upon it in the present stage. He thought it came with a peculiarly bad grace in a time of such distress, that there were societies forming in the metropolis, and other places, for the purpose of supplying the poor with provisions upon moderate terms, to which this tax would oppose no small impediment.—The bill was then read a. first time.
 Mr. Fox  denied that he had used any taunting, language. If, in what he said, there was an appearance of taunt, it was not applied to the worthy baronet, whom, on the contrary, he praised for his fair and open dealing. If there was any thing of taunt, it applied to those who could hear arguments and approve them secretly, without having the courage openly to support them.
 Mr. Fox  was clearly in favour of the original motion, and could not conceive on what grounds the motion for the order of the day could be supported. It was evident that the bill, if allowed to be good at all, could not fulfil its object previous to the expiration of the session. There was no force at all in the observation of the right hon. gent, opposite, that at this period of the session the renewal was unnecessary. The house could have no means of knowing when the session was to terminate. It might terminate exactly when it suited the whim or the interest of a minister. But was the house to be told that an act, on all hands allowed to be beneficial, to be renewed just at the period when it suited the minister, and not when it was called for by the public interest? The idea was monstrous, and not to be endured for a moment. If parliamentary inquiry was to be instituted at all, then let it be instituted in the true spirit of inquiry, and not dependent on a minister's arrangement. But the right hon. gent. had endeavoured to argue, that there probably might be no necessity for renewing the act. Now, what single tittle of evidence had been adduced to countenance such an opinion? It was contrary to every conjecture, and every probability.
 687 688
 Mr. Grey  argued, that if there was, as the worthy baronet had insinuated, any fair charge against the commissioners for any of their Reports, this was not an evil for which no remedy existed. If any set of men had been injured, they were not without redress. If the commissioners had been guilty of any act of oppression, the house had the means of procuring to individuals improperly attacked full retribution. They could either recall or restrain powers which had been illegally or oppressively exercised. The hon. and learned gent, who had introduced the discussion had alluded to a variety of important subjects which remained for the investigation, of the commissioners, and the right hon. gent. opposite had not denied that these matters were extremely interesting in themselves, and deserving of serious inquiry. He had, however, thrown out a hint that there was reason to hope the investigation
 683
 Mr. Giles,  pursuant to the notice he had given some time since, rose to move for the continuance of the powers granted to the commissioners of naval enquiry. To those who were not in the house at the time when he put some questions to the
 678 679 680
 Mr. Canning  spoke in favour of the amendment, but begged it to be understood, that in giving this vote be gave no opinion as to the policy of continuing the commission. Whenever this matter came to be canvassed, he should feel himself as not at all compromised by the vote he should give on the present occasion. A great deal had been said as to the intention of those who brought forward the measure, as to the time of its continuance. One hon. officer (Sir C. Pole) had declared his opinion, that it was not meant to be continued during a period of war. It was true that another hon. officer (Admiral Markham), had expressed his opinion that it was meant to be of unlimited duration, as long as there was any subject of inquiry not thoroughly investigated. Now, he contended, that with such opposite and contradictory opinions, in such a state of ambiguity, the house ought to pause before they came to any certain determination. This was precisely the object with the amendment he had in view. It was designed not to operate as a decision that the commission should be discontinued, but as a means of giving the house time to reflect to what period it should be extended, or whether it might not be possible to derive all the information required) without any renewal of the bill. Even allowing that parliament in the first instance intended that the bill should be extended to a period beyond what it would reach to without a new bill, the house now were not to be bound by such a determination. They were to be guided by dictates of policy and expediency. One hon. officer was of opinion that we ought by all means to preserve the commission in existence. Another hon. officer, equally well qualified to judge on the subject, thought, that during war, that operations
 689
 Mr. Tierney  said, he was surprised, from the trifling, if any difference of opinion, which existed between both sides of the house upon the merits of this bill, that there should be any objection to a motion for its further continuance. It was allowed on all hands that the commissioners acting under this bill had, throughout the whole of their conduct, with the exception of one single instance only, deserved the highest praise. Why, then, should the house hesitate to invest such commissioners with the powers necessary to enable them to discharge their duty with full effect? In order to this, he thought the existence of their power should be stable, and not dependant on the duration of a session. As to the danger apprehended from such a commission during the existence of a war, he thought that the experience we had already had, was sufficient to remove that apprehension. The commission had originated in time of peace, but yet we had been at war during the greater part of its continuance, and yet no inconvenience whatever, appeared to have resulted from it, but quite the contrary; and it was his opinion, and that of many gallant and intelligent officers, that if it were interrupted in its progress before its investigations' should be completed, very great mischiefs would arise. An hon. baronet had stated, that if the object of the commission appeared to be unattainable before the expiration of the sessions, application would and ought to be then made for the continuance of the bill. But he would put it to the candid consideration of the house, whether, thinking as they and the public did, of the exertions of these commissioners, it would be decorous to limit them in point of time, or wait for their application to continue the act? Whether it would not be more becoming to be beforehand with them, and to renew the bill at once? His opinion was decidedly in favour of the latter
 692 693
 Mr. I. H. Browne  said, that he gave great credit to the barriers of the bill when it was first introduced into the house, and the reports of the commisioners acting under it had confirmed him in the good opinion he had then formed of it. With every deference to the opinion of the hon. baronet who had so worthily acted under it, and every confidence in the promise of the right hon. gent. as to its continuance, he thought the measure so important and necessary that he could not but vote for the present motion.
 Mr. Martin (of Tewksbury)  wished every success to the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman. He professed the utmost respect for the late first lord of the admiralty, and declared, that in his opinion, his exertions to reform the abuses in the naval department were highly meritorious. From the time he had first directed any pan of his attention to public affairs, he had seen reason to believe that naval abuses of the most flagrant description existed, and the noble lord deserved the gratitude of his country for his endeavours to extirpate them. The noble lord had fought our battles abroad bravely, successfully, and skilfully, and not satisfied with these exertions, he had set about the reform of abuses which were not only a disgrace to the board of admiralty, but a disgrace to the very character of the country. He thought the commission for promoting this great object an excellent one, and he should certainly vote for the motion.
 Admiral Markham  felt it impossible to sit still, without saying a few words on this subject. He had himself had the honour to introduce the bill into that house, and he enjoyed the best opportunities of beings acquainted with the intention of the noble lord who then presided over the naval department. That noble lord had undoubtedly not recommended the measure during the war, because he looked forward to a probable termination of it, and it was his intention to have its operations extended to the time that should be necessary for accomplishing its objects when it had been brought forward. He could state, and the Reports on the table would bear out his statement, that one-third of the naval expences of the country would be saved by an honest and upright discharge of the duties of the offices employed in their administration. This he believed in his conscience, and stated not on light grounds, He knew of some of those abuses now under investigation, which would astonish the house when reported to it. His hon. friend had stated, that there were many other branch, as to be investigated, such as the Victualling office, and the Sick and Wounded office which he had no hesitation in stating to be the most corrupt of all. He and every other officer of his majesty's navy had suffered by these abuses. There was also another measure, the prize-
 685
 Mr. Sheridan  conceived the hon. baronet would have been out of order, if he had not come to the point he had just now laid down. Having charged the commissioners with abusing their powers, and having suggested the propriety of restricting them, the hon. baronet was called upon to substatitiate his charge of abuse, and to bring forward a specific motion for curtailing the powers. If the commissioners were to be abridged of their powers to detect and punish the foulest frauds and the most flagrant abuses, in the most important department of the public service, it was fit that the cause of that curtailment should be made out. It was natural to suppose some extraordinary cause for the rejection of a bill supported by direct evidence. A loose imputation should not be suffered to tarnish the credit or diminish the powers of men who had exercised those powers for the benefit of the country. He thought the hon. baronet called upon in the first instance to make good his charge, that the commissioners had abused their power, and then to move that those powers be abridged.
 Mr. Creevey  expressed himself in terms of the strongest approbation of the labours of the commissioners for naval enquiry. From what they had already disclosed of frauds on the public, the house and the country had every reason to augur most favourably of their future exertions. He hoped too, that their reports would not be suffered to lie useless on the table, but would be followed up by corresponding improvement. It was the more necessary to allude to this, for he had formerly seen reports of abuses in the naval department which were suffered to sink into complete oblivion. He could remember 20 years ago such reports, and to this, though improvements had been suggested, they had never been reduced to practice, nor had enquiries, of which there was much promise and strong expectation, produced one important result, except the satisfaction of knowing that the public had been grossly plundered. He was sorry to be under the. necessity to alluding to the
 686
 Sir Charles Pole  gave it as his opinion, that there were at present matters of the highest importance before the commissioners, and that, in all probability, their labours could not be ended within the session.
 Sir Charles Pole  disclaimed any imputation calculated to make a question of the integrity of the motives of the hon. member for Plymouth. But the abuse of the naval commissioners came naturally from the constituents of the hon. baronet; for he did not believe that those commissioners were ever respectfully spoken of at the docks.
 Sir Charles Pole  feeling himself called on by an observation of the hon. member, rose purely for the purpose of replying to it. He admitted that many important objects of inquiry remained yet to be examined, which it would be impossible to complete during the present session from the numerous difficulties that would arise in consequence of the war. He could not kelp adding, that when the measure had been first introduced, on the suggestion of
 684
 Sir W. Elford  utterly disclaimed the slightest personal knowledge of the individuals to whom he had alluded. Nay, he had no connection whatever with them, and acted wholly on public grounds.
 Sir W. Elford  justified himself by stating, that he did no more than cite the case from the 8th report of the commissioners of naval enquiry.
 Sin William Elford  thought himself perfectly in order. He was only attempting to shew that the commission ought not to be continued as it was at present administered. The reports were such, that if published by any authority but that house, they would be deemed the rankest libels that ever were written. In one of them, there was a charge against a grand jury of
 682
 Sir William Elford  admitted that the commissioners of naval enquiry had done some good, but thought that their enquiries ought not to be carried on as they are at present. They had erected themselves into a kind of criminal tribunal, and heard and condemned on  ex parte
 The Secretary at War  took notice of two clauses, which had been proposed to be introduced into the bill by an hon. general opposite him (Fitzpatrick) he approved of the principle of those clauses, so far as their object was to give the greatest solemnity to the decisions of courts martial by the alterations it proposed of not permitting officers, under the age of 21, to have a seat, or at any rate from being president of a court martial. He had, however, considered it his duty to consult the opinions of several of the ablest officer's upon the alteration proposed; he had not yet been able to procure these opinions, and therefore should not wish at present to say any more of those clauses; he hoped, however, the hon. gent, would not object to the bill being now engrossed, and
 696
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the committee in the report which they gave in some years ago, and. which had been alluded to by the noble lord, proceeded on the ground of rendering salt applicable to many general purposes, among which was even that of manure. It was certainly their object to give facility to the circulation of that article, but the chief hindrance to a free circulation was the regulation which the duty necessarily demanded, and these regulations would equally affect, the circulation whether the duty amounted to 5, 10, or 15s. a bushel, so that the noble lord ought not to be satisfied with advising a rejection of a revenue of 500,000l. which the proposed additional duty would produce, but should proceed to advise the taking off the duty now 'existing, which produced a revenue amounting to double that sum. It was singular that the noble lord should call on those persons, who, when the country was at peace, approved the report of the committee, and yet did not venture to institute any measure upon it, to come forward, and in the midst of war declare their opinion on the present bill. The report had slept for 3 years, and the consideration of it was now urged, at a time, than which, none could be more unfit. The noble lord had asserted, that this tax pressed heavily on the poor. It was a most unpleasant thing for him to be under the necessity of imposing taxes which in any degree affected the lower classes, but he had a sacred duty to perform. We were engaged in a contest for the defence both of rich and of poor; supplies must be found; and no mode of raising them seemed to him so little liable to objection as the present. On the day when he first introduced this and his other measures of finance, it was objected by an hon. gent. that they did not fall sufficiently on articles of consumption. The noble lord had not been just in saying, that govt. had abandoned the interests of the lower classes. Let him look at the taxes from the year 1793 to the present time, and he would find that they have been in every instance
 698
 Mr. Rose  would not follow the hon. baronet through all his observations on the public expenditure and economy. He had expressed great alarm lest the additional duty should decrease the consumption, but he could inform him that the last duty laid upon salt had had the effect of of increasing the consumption. Ah hon. gent. on the other side (Mr. Pox) had been most egregiously misled in the calculation he had submitted to the house of the quantity of salt necessary for salting pork. He had been informed by his cook, that for a bacon hog of 14 score not more than 13 or 14 pounds of salt was necessary. As to finding a substitute for this tax, it was utterly impossible to find a substitute for a tax that produced a revenue of a million sterling. It was very easy for gentlemen to abuse any tax that might be Offered for their consideration, but he was convinced that under all the circumstances of the times, no one could be found less exceptionable than the present.
 Mr. Rose  explained, that his calculation went to the whole, of bacon hogs salted for the use of his family.
 The Secretary at War  wished also to correct a misstatement made by the hon. baronet (sir Wm. Pulteney) when he said that the new tax would be an addition of 4s. on each individual of a family; whereas, by referring to the consumption of salt, and comparing it with the population of the country, it would be found to amount to no more, on an average, than 4s. a year upon each family, and not on each individual.
 Lord William Russell  said, the effect of this tax upon the labouring parts of the community, would be most deplorable. He confessed, he did hope that the second reading of the bill would have been deferred until gentlemen should have had lime fully to consider the report of the salt committee of a former session, which the house had, on a late day, ordered to be printed. The labours of that committee were valuable; and he hoped that the members who composed it would that night follow up the wise, humane, and patriotic resolutions, by opposing the present tax. By the report, it was obvious that the committee under the last administration purposed, by their report, to lead to the abolition of the tax on salt altogether. Salt was an article important to all descriptions, and as it was used by all for the most beneficial purposes, he trusted all descriptions of persons, in that house, would oppose the tax now sought to be laid on it. It would be recollected, that bread was a principal article of sustenance used by persons of all descriptions throughout the kingdom: now, by this tax it was unavoidable, that the price of bread should be raised; in fact, bread had been already risen an assize by the mere report of such a proposition. There was a petition, at that moment, before the house, from the baker's company, praying for relief, in consequence of various alterations in the, sources of their profits, and in particular because of this tax. Throughout the country the effect must unavoidably be the same. It would affect the price of salt used in all kinds of salt meat, so as to place them above the reach of the poor. Salt-fish was an extensive article of sustenance in many of the labouring parts of the kingdom; this would experience a rise of price amounting to little short of prohibition. The tax would entirely alter the condition of the lower orders. It would render them totally dependant on the affluent for support. It would prevent them from maintaining that state of independence which
 697
 Mr. Fox  declared that he had seldom risen to give his opinion against any tax ' which appeared to him more objectionable. The right hon. gent. had asked why, if the suggestions of the committee on the salt duties were politic and expedient, they were not acted upon during the existence of peace? To this the answer was at once simple and conclusive. The house would recollect that the report was made in 1801, and it was only in that one session that the interval of peace gave any opportunity for bringing forward a proposition for the repeal of the salt duties. At that time those at the head of affairs, and those who brought forward the report, had hot time to make up their minds how far a bill for the repeal of the duties was expedient, or in what manner the deficiency arising to
 699 700
 Mr. Fox,  in explanation, said, that it
 703
 Mr. Giddy  also spoke shortly against the tax. From his own intimate experience, he was sure that it would be highly detrimental to the fisheries. When the last tax on salt was imposed, over a great extent of coast, the curing of fish was for a considerable time almost wholly suspended. In many parts of the country where the people almost wholly lived on salt provisions, the tax would be productive of much serious inconvenience, even misery. He strongly recommended the substitution of some other tax in its room, as the present was unjust in its principle, and impolitic as well as oppressive in its operation.
 Mr. Johnstone  vidicated the statement of his hon. relation (sir W. Pulteney), that this sum must apply to individuals and not to families. In the report of the committee on the salt duties it was stated, that each person on an average consumed 14 pounds of salt in the year, and this by the old tax made 2s. 6d. The new tax would make 1s. 3d. more, being nearly the sum alluded to by his hon. relation. He was clearly against the tax, and maintained that it would hold out new temptations to smuggling, which, in the northern parts of the island, was already carried to au enormous extent.—The question being called for, the house divided,
 
 
 For the second reading now 93 
 Against it 60 
 Majority 33 704
 Mr. Alderman Combe  alledged, that the wholesale dealers would make this tax a pretext for an enormous rise on the retail dealer, and consequently on the consumer, and he also wished to correct a mistake into which the chancellor of the exchequer had fallen; namely, that it would have no effect upon the price of bread. It was very true, that by the former act the price of bread was regulated according to that of flour only; but, by the last act, every article of expence to which the baker was subjected was taken into account, and the price of bread for the week regulated accordingly.
 General Fitzpatrick  had no objection to the bill being engrossed, and should reserve himself to a future stage, when he intended again to introduce these clauses.—The bill was then read a second time, and ordered to be engrossed
 Mr. Egerton  said, he had received the most positive instructions from his constituents in Cheshire, to oppose a measure always so injurious to their interest, at the
 701
 Mr. Huskisson  replied, that Scotland had not been subject to more than 4s. duty, when England paid ten, and that the whole amount of the duty for Scotland never exceeded 50,000l.
 Sir William Pulteney  was decidedly against the measure. He had no doubt that if the war had not broken out, the suggestions of the committee on the salt duties would have been carried into effect. The only question was; if the salt duties had been repealed, what other duties should be resorted to to cover so great a deficiency in the revenue? The argument of the right hon. gent, opposite, that the tax would not be oppressive, because it would only make an addition of 4 or 5 shillings to each family, was totally unfounded. The fact was, it would create an addition to this amount in every individual of a family, and would any one deny that this would be a most heavy and serious pressure? Hitherto it had been the object of the house to exempt from taxation all articles of indispensable necessity to the sustenance of life. Other articles of convenience or luxury might be given up, but here, it was proposed to lay a very severe impost on an article admitted on all hands to be an article of primary necessity, and one which was essential not to the comfort only, but the very existence of the lower orders. Salt was like leather, and candles, and a few other articles, which only deserved the name of necessaries in the strictest sense of the term. The house were aware that a tax on such articles was attended with inconveniences far greater than the bare amount of the impost in the first instance. The moment the tax was promulgated the, retail dealer took advantage of raising the article taxed to a vast tax for the consumer. This rise was in all cases exceedingly oppressive to the
 702
 Mr. Charles Wynne  observed, that an hour had elapsed after the usual time of meeting, and yet no progress had been made with the public business. Without meaning any thing harsh; therefore, he proposed to move the house to proceed, with the orders of the day, as considerable inconvenience was felt by gentlemen: from such delays.
 Mr. C. Wynne  stated, that four o'clock was the hour appointed for meeting, and that it had frequently been half past five, during the present session, before public business was proceed with. The house could not be formed without 40 members, and when 40 members came down at four o'clock, he submitted whether it was not extremely inconvenient to keep them waiting till half past five.
 The Secretary at War  proceeded to move the third reading of the mutiny bill. In making this motion he was afraid that lie should disappoint the expectation of the hon. officer on the other side, (general Fitzpatrick) as he was not prepared to submit the propositions which that hon. officer recommended on a former flay. For himself, he was ready to confess, that those propositions appeared to be perfectly reasonable. They were, according to his recollection, that the members of regimental courts martial should be sworn, that they should be authorized to administer oaths to witnesses, &c. and that no president of such a court martial should be under 21 years of age. However, al-
 708
 The Secretary  at War took occasion to call the attention of the house to the subject of those petitions. It appeared to him that the petitioners complained of the evils of a, bill, which, in point of fact, had not yet come into action. The bill was hot to operate until corn was at a certain price; and as no such case had yet occurred, he thought the people were deluded, and persuaded to feel a grievance of which they had yet had no experience.
 The Secretary at War  expressed his readiness to assist the right hon. officer in drawing up the clauses wish respect to the propositions he mentioned, and in which he perfectly concurred. He also assented to his wish for postponing the motion, and should therefore move the third reading on Monday next.
 Earl Temple  gave notice, that he would to-morrow more for the exemption of mi-
 711
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  announced his intention of opposing any proposition for the exemption of any class of men from this tax, as contrary to the spirit and equity of the measure, and calculated to undermine the whole contribution.
 Mr. Alexander  did not think the object of the lion, baronet attainable in the, way he proposed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the proposition of the hon. baronet could not be entertained, as no previous instruction to the committee had been voted. As to the proposition itself, he was surprised to hear it stated, that it involved a violation of the principle of the union. It was not less agreeable to that principle than to the precepts of common equity, that the property in each country should be subject to the taxation, and appropriate to the treasury of that country. This was precisely what this tax, objected to by the hon. bart. proposed; and, on the same principle, the property in the funds of Ireland, belonging, to persons resident in this country, would be subject to the taxation, and applicable to the purposes of that country, should it be through proper to lay a tak on
 712
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he should shortly have occasion to move for leave to bring in another bill relating to regulations which would give his hon. friend an opportunity of submitting this exemption; but, if he thought proper to offer it now, he did not suppose it would meet with any opposition.—The clause was then brought up and, agreed to, and the bill having passed the committed, was ordered to be reported to-morrow.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  vidicated the right of the people to petition even where, the evil of which they complained was but likely to arise. In this case, however, the evil was actually experienced. The very passing of the act had done considerable mischief. It had created an alarm that had not yet subsided. It had raised the price of corn. But, even supposing that it had not produced that effect, if the object of the bill were exception able, it was of course such as the people were entitled to deprecate, and against which it was their right, interest, and duty to. petition.
 Colonel Stuart  thought the principle of the propositions recommended by the hon. officer ought to be carried farther, and that the degrees of punishment to be inflicted by regimental courts martial ought to be limited. The number of members on such courts martial ought, in his opinion, to be in no case less than 7, unless where a field officer presided, and, in such case, not less than 5. This was a regulation, which appeared to him highly necessary, but he particularly enforced the propriety of prohibiting the sentences of regimental courts martial from inflicting beyond a certain degree of punishment, not more than 2 or 300 lashes.
 Mr. Johnstone  rose, not, he said to-repeat the general arguments on this measure, which the house had heard so forcibly urged yesterday, but to call the attention of gentlemen to the operation of the salt tax in Scotland. When this tax was imposed in 1795, it was reduced in Scotland from 6s. 6d. to 4s. per bushel. This reduction took place in consequence of a consideration of the peculiar circumstances of the people of that country. Now, he wished to understand how it was proposed to draw the additional tax contained in this bill from a country so circumstanced. If in 1795 it was incapable of paying more than 4s. per bushel, why was it now deemed capable of affording 9s.? Considering, indeed, the situation of Scotland fully and fairly, it was his opinion that it. would be much wiser to remit the salt duty in that country altogether. That duty produced but 47,0001. per annum, and there was a bounty allowed from the excise amounting to 29,000l. which, with a considerable; bounty from the customs, exceeded the produce of the tax. For these reasons, he submitted, that a repeal of the duty as to Scotland would be not less advantageous, to the revenue than to the people of Scotland. If so, then, bow could ministers justify the imposition of a farther salt tax upon that country?
 Mr. Bankes  brought up a clause, to exempt from the payment of this tax all lands, money, or other property, vested in trustees for the use of almshouses, or other charitable purposes only.
 Mr. Martin (of Tewkesbury)  declared, that there had been an extreme waste of time lately, and that the delay was highly disrespectful to the house, and to the chair.
 Mr. Fuller  said, if the public business was thus unnecessarily delayed, it would be difficult for a member to get a dinner more than one day in the week.
 General Fitzpatrick  said, that in consequence of the conference he had had with the right hon. gent. and the obvious justice and necessity of the propositions he suggested, which met that right hon. gent.'s entire concurrence, he had thought it unnecessary to trespass on the attention of the house, by stating the grounds upon which he was urged to submit those propositions. Those grounds were such as he had very little doubt would convince the majority of the house of the propriety of adopting the amendments he proposed. He had, indeed, never heard any serious objection urged against them. It therefore struck him as rather extraordinary, after the declared coincidence of the right hon. gent, to be told that some military officers entertained doubts upon the subject. No doubt was expressed by any person of that house; not a sentence of objection was heard from any member; and yet those salutary improvements, for the adoption of which policy, humanity, and justice equally called, were to be rejected or delayed, because some military officers doubted. How, he would ask, were the objections of such military persons to be brought before the house in a parliamentary form? and the mere statement of their objections, unaccompanied by any reason for such objections, was not, he contended, a parliamentary ground for the delay on the promotion of any measure. The time required in the opinion of the right hon. gent, to deliberate upon the propositions he had felt it his duty to recommend, was attainable in his judgment, with out proposing the alteration the right hon. gent, alluded to,
 709
 Mr. Huskisson  replied, that there had been no delay of business on this day, and that, he had been at the bar to present certain papers that had been ordered by the house, when the motion was made by the hon. member. He appealed to the expedience of those gentlemen who were longest acquainted with the procedings of the house, whether five o'clock was not the usual time of proceeding with the public business.
 Mr. Huskisson  stated the reason for the former reduction of the salt tax in favour of Scotland to be this, that as the Scotch people manufactured their salt from sea water, they were subject to an increased expence for fuel. On that account this allowance was made, which it was still proposed to continue, and he contended, there, fore, that the people of Scotland had no reason to complain. As to the produce of the revenue arising from the salt duty in Scotland contrasted with the bounty, he admitted that it was not considerable; but then its reduced amount proceeded from the frauds that were known to exist, and the smuggling with Ireland, If, however, the hon. gent., would look into the, bill before the house, he would see that such provisions were introduced into it as were calculated effectually to prevent those frauds in future.—A. division took place upon the motion, ayes, 128; noes, 58 5 rnajority,70.
 Sir Eyre Coote  cordially approved the propositions of the right hon. officer, and thought that no officer should be admitted a member of any court martial who was under 21 years of age. This alteration would, he was persuaded, be very grateful to the feelings and conducive to the interests of the army.—The order for the third reading of the bill was postponed till Monday.
 Sir John Newport  stated, that when he before mentioned the subject, he was told that the committee would be the proper place' to bring forward this proposition
 Sir John Newport  called the attention of the committee to this tax, as it affected the property in the funds, belonging to persons resident in Ireland. This, he conceived, to be contrary to the principle of the union, which, proposed to leave the resources of each country applicable to the treasury of that country. It would be also contrary to the policy which dictated an exemption in favour of the funded property of foreigners, which arose from a wish to induce foreigners to vest their money in our funds. The operation of this, tax with respect to persons resident in Ireland would, he observed, be still more severe, for this reason, that according to the act, the English agent would be obliged to make a return of the whole property of his principal, and thus the same person might be subject to the payment of the same tax in both countries. Under those circumstances, the hon. baronet proposed a clause to exempt from the tux such property in the funds as belonged to persons who pay the hearth money and the window tax in Ireland.
 Sir John Newport  persisted in maintaining that it was contrary to the principle of the union to draw these resources from the use of Ireland which would be otherwise sent into it. Independently of this ground of objection, however, he claimed' the exemption he proposed, upon the same principle as that which induced the house to exempt the funded property of foreigners. Unless the property of the latter were deemed more sacred than that of the Irish, he saw no reason why this proposition should be resisted. If the hon. gent. should persist in opposing his object, he declared he would move to expunge from the bill the exemption in favour of foreigners.
 Sir W Elford  stated the object of the act to which the petitions referred, to be to promote agriculture by encouraging the farmers. But as the act had not yet been in operation, he maintained that the price of corn was not fairly attributable to it, and that corn would have been, from various circumstances, at its present rate, if that act had never existed. This he thought it necessary to mention, as a great delusion, had gone forth among the people
 707
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, and spoke as follows: It is not my intention, sir, to follow the hon. gent. through all
 747 748 749 750 751 752 753 754 755 756 757 758 759 760 761 762
 Colonel Stewart  spoke in favour of the bill, until an entire new plan should be introduced for improving the army.
 Mr. Bragge Bathurst,  in reply to the hon. gent's, (Mr. Sheridan's) appeal to the friends of the late minister, thought it right to observe that it did not follow, because a measure had been opposed before it received the sanction of parliament, that it should also be opposed afterwards, He appealed to the house, whether such had been the practice of parliament, or whether opposition, in the first instance, was supposed to imply the necessity of continued resistance? Most of the measures which many gentlemen thought to be objectionable at first, were amended in their progress through the house; and consequently, when stamped with the approbation of parliament, were entitled to concurrence and support. As to the present subject, the question appeared to be, whether it had received a fair trial; but he thought not; and therefore that it should not be repealed on light ground. If he were asked whether he preferred the army of reserve to the defence bill, he should answer in the affirmative; but it could not be inferred, in sound reasoning, that he ought therefore to oppose the latter. Before he assented to the repeal of the present bill, or rather before he was called on to do so, it was the duty of the gentlemen who proposed it to bring forward their plan, in order that he might be able to decide on its superior efficacy and advantages. If this bill fee repealed, there is no substitute for it as
 771 772
 Lord Castlereagh. —It is not my intention,
 780 onus 781
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  observed, that he should support the motion for repealing the bill, from a thorough conviction of its inefficiency. It tended directly to destroy the recruiting system, which was proved from the circumstance of the regimental officers having been as successful as could be wished, till this bill had been introduced into the parishes, when all the sources of supplying the army in the ordinary way were instantly dried up. It had defeated itself completely, and when compared with the promises made, must be acknowledged to be quite nugatory.
 General Norton  said, he wished the bill to be adhered to.
 Mr. Fox. —Sir; at this late hour, and after the very ample discussion this subject has already obtained, I shall detain the house but for a very few moments. A right hon. gent. (Mr. Bragge Bathurst) has said, that it is not fair to ask him to state upon his honour what would have been his
 774 775 776 777 778 779
 Mr. Johnstone  rose, he said, for the purpose of pointing out several fallacies in the statement made by the noble lord, but a general call for the question prevented us from correctly hearing the hon. gent.'s calculations.
 Mr. Tierney  thought it necessary to say a few words, after the example of a right hon. friend of his (Mr. B. Bathurst). He disclaimed any idea of giving a factious opposition to the govt.; but he felt it incumbent on him to declare, that with all the consideration he had been enabled to give the additional force act, if the repeal of it depended upon his single vote, he should think it his duty to vote in the affirmative, and upon grounds that were perfectly satisfactory to his own mind. Conscientiously speaking, he was firmly convinced of the wisdom of the military plans of that administration with which he had been connected; and as this bill went to render null the whole of them, he thought him-
 773
 Mr. Langham  said, he would vote for the repeal of the bill; but in doing so, he should not pledge himself to vote against the administration.
 Mr. Fuller  disapproved of the speech of the right lion. gent. (Mr. Windham) who seemed to be an enemy to-the volunteer system; but any man who could entertain such an hostile opinion, would say that black was white, or white was black; res non verba, he looked to; his wish was not to have flourishing speeches, but substantial measures; he should vote therefore, for the repeal, from the impossibility of carrying the act into execution.
 Mr. Sheridan  then rose to reply, and spoke nearly as follows:—After the attentive hearing with which I was honoured in the former part of the evening, I think the house will do me the credit to believe that it is not my intention to trespass much on their time at this late period. I shall, however, avail myself of the privilege granted to the opener of a motion, to say a few words in reply to the objections which have been started against the motion which I have had the honour to submit to the house. I can assure the house, that what I have to say shall be short, for though I value volunteering very highly, I certainly am not over zealous to reply to speeches which were totally destitute of any thing in the shape of argument. I was not sur-
 782 783 Nec Deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus 784 The jolly God in triumph comes, Sound the trumpets, beat the drums. 785 
 
 For Mr. Sheridan's motion 127 
 Against it 267 
 Majority against the motion 140
 Mr. Sheridan  rose, and spoke nearly to the following effect:—I rise, sir, in pursuance of the notice I gave, on a former day, to submit to the house a motion for the repeal of a bill, passed last session of parliament, intituled, "an act for the additional defence of the kingdom, &c." I choose to give the whole of the title of this bill, rather than to be studious of brevity, though it might certainly give me an opportunity of complimenting the feelings of the right hon. gent. by describing it in its usual appellation, as Mr. Pitt's parish defence bill. When I gave my notice of this motion, I could not help observing, that it appeared to excite some surprise on the part of some gentlemen opposite; a surprise not unmixed with marks of disapprobation of a nature not the most orderly. I have been endeavouring to account for these symptoms of surprise and disapprobation. Did the hon. gentlemen
 724 725 726 727 728 729 730 
 
 In Jan. 1804 the whole of our army amounted to 191,099 
 In Jan. 1805 the whole of our army amounted to 143,651 
 Deficiency 41,448 
 In Jan. 1804 the Militia 109,947 
 In Jan. 1805 the Militia 85,519 
 Deficiency 24,428 
 Total of army and militia in Jan. 1804 301,046 
 Total of army and militia in Jan. 1805 229,170 
 Deficiency 71,876 
 The Cavalry in Jan. 1804 11,177 
 The Cavalry in Jan. 1805 21,223 
 Increase 4,046 
 The Artillery in Jan. 1804 7,661 
  The Artillery in Jan. 1805 8,517 
 Increase 856 
 The Foreign Troops in 1804 13,710 
 The Foreign Troops in 1805 21,028 
 Increase 7,318 731 732 733 734 735 736 737 738 739 740 741 742 743 744 de novo. 745 746
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he should not have risen to trouble the house but for the pointed allusions made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the exchequer to his right hon. friend (Mr. Windham), whose convincing speech, however, he had not attempted to answer. He wished, therefore, that the house should not go away impressed with the statements of the right hon. gent, which were for the greater part incorrect. The house might also wish to hear the sentiments of the noble lord (Castlereagh) who formed a part of the last administration, as well as the opinion of the hon. and learned gent, opposite to him (the attorney general), on an interesting subject of this nature, and one on which they had already addressed the house. The right hon. the chancellor the exchequer had confined him-self-ajmost entirely to denying the detail submitted by his hon. friend (Mr. Sheridan) and gave up the principal of the measure;
 768 769 770
 Mr. Windham  said, he could not help remarking, how very naturally arid willingly the fight hon. gent, had deviated from the subject before the house, and had made excursions from it to other topics with which it was by no means connected. The right hon. gent, had first endeavoured to point out diversities of opinion between him and his hon. friend who opened the debate, and then between him and himself, on former occasions. On the former of those supposed diversities of opinion, the right hon. gent, had remarked with such violence, as must have induced persons who had not heard the speech of his hon. friend who opened the business, to suppose that he had attempted to conceal that any such diversity Subsisted. Such, however, was well known to the house, and such had been particularly marked by his hon. friend this night in opening the debate. There was nothing inconsistent in his hon. friend, who thought a variety of force was not detrimental to the military service of the country, and in him who thought otherwise, agreeing, that there was nevertheless a necessity for going into a committee on the military defence of the country. It had been stated by him the other night, that the volunteers were not the force on which we ought at present to rely alone, and sin this opinion, he had reason to believe his hon. friend and he were not so much at variance as was generally imagined. That, however,
 763 764 765 766 767
 Mr. Alexander  appeared at the bar with the report of the bill for imposing an additional duty on salt. On the question being put from the chair, "that this report be now brought up,"
 Mr. Rose  insisted, that the different bounties to which the committee and the hon. gent, alluded, on the exportation of printed linens and cottons, whale oil, refined sugar, &c. had no connection whatever with the duties imposed upon salt. The gentlemen who opposed this duty in the present instance, and even wished for the repeal of all the duties upon salt, would find themselves under very great difficulty to point out a substitute which would produce a revenue of 500,000l. and not be liable to much greater objection than this was. He denied that the duty at all had any application to the fisheries, which were exempted, and stated, that in the course of the present session, he hoped to be enabled to bring in a bill for the better encouragement and regulation of the fisheries.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that many things which he had intended to have offered had been in a great measure anticipated. He would;
 792
 Mr. Fox  said, that there was one point which he wished to have exactly ascertained. It seemed to be agreed that the salt of Scotland was inferior in quality to that of England. He wished to know exactly the degree of difference between them. On the one hand great injustice might be done to Scotland, in case the consumption was great, and on the other hand, in case the food used in Scotland was much easier
 793
 Mr. Kinnaird  said, that when the report of the committee of 1801 was ordered to be reprinted, he thought there was reason to expect that it would have been before the house before the bill should be pressed -forward. He wished to remind the house, that in recommending the taking off the duty on salt, that the committee illustrated the advantages of it, by slating that all the prosperity of the Isle of Man was ow-
 790
 Mr. Johnstone  observed, that though the subject might appear to have been pretty nearly exhausted already, yet he could not refrain at this time from stating his objections to the bill, which he considered as involving in it every thing mischievous that could possibly accompany a tax. It was surprising, that after a report of the committee of this house had been so long on the table, recommending the entire abolition of the salt duty, the first thing we should hear was a double duty being laid on that article. It was a breach of faith-in some measure, and must give the country a bad impression of parliament itself. Suppose a case in private life, where a superior should hold out hopes to a dependant, that he should be relieved from grievances of which he justly complained: what would be thought of that superior if, instead of relief, he should double the burden It was trifling with the people to hold out expectations to them without attempting to realize them. So much for England. But the case was worse with respect to Scotland. There it would be impossible to go through with this bill. Formerly when the duty was 10s. in England, in Scotland it was 6s. 6d. From this it was found necessary to lower it to 4s. If it was scarcely possible to collect it then, what could be done now, when the duty was so much more? The difficulty of making salt in Scotland would not account for the impossibility found in collecting the duty there. This difficulty arose from-making salt there from sea water, instead of salt springs, which contained more saline matter; but in Scotland, they used the rock salt of Chester in general, as well as, in- England. The tax fell much more severely on the poor than
 789
 Mr. Johnstone,  from the chief secretary's office in Ireland, presented an Account of the Pensions granted ort the Irish establishment, together with the dates and amounts of the same, and the lives for which they were granted, up to the 1st of January, 1805. Ordered to lie on the table.—Mr. Bully, from the exchequer, presented an account of the sums issued by his majesty's command, in pursuance of addresses of that house, and not provided for by parliament-Ordered to lie on the table—Mr. Kinnaird presented several petitions from the inhabitants of the towns of Perth, Sterling,, and Dumfermline, in Scotland, praying for a repeal of the late corn act, which were or-
 788
 Colonel Calcraft  said, that though he did not wish to stop the progress of the bill during the printing of the report of the committee; yet he did not suppose that any attempt would have been made to pass the bill through the house until the report should be before them. He said, that though this might not be a fit time for taking off the tax altogether, yet he could1 not think the present was the fittest moment to select for adding 500,0001. to the 800,000l. which is already raised from an article of general consumption, as the lower order must feel peculiarly the inconvenience of a time of war, from the advance which takes place in the price of provisions in consequence of the increase of taxes, which is unavoidably occasioned by the war. When such a subject, however, was to be discussed in parliament, he thought it would have been more respectful to the house for the minister to have attended in his place. He had not heard that he was ill, or that any unpleasant consequences had followed from the fatigue of last night's debate; he might have been a little galled no doubt, but that was no reason why he should not attend in his place to-night, on the discussion of a subject of such general importance. Instead of adopting such a measure as the present, he would advise the Colleagues of that right hon. gent, to take the liberty of recommending him in private to look at economy in the public expenditure. When his majesty's servants thought proper to have recourse to severe taxes of this kind, he thought it was full time to endeavour to find a substitute for them in the retrenchments, which were so loudly called for in the public expenditure. An hon. admiral (Markham) of high authority, had lately stated, (see p. 684), that a saving of one-third might be made in the naval expenditure, which was now 15 million annually; and if they could retrench even one thirteenth part of it, the people of the country might be saved some of the hardships to which they were now subjected. Should this tax be adopted, the consequence must be that every labouring and Agricultural man in the country would have to pay a twentieth part of his income for the, purchase of salt indispensable for his sustenance.
 Mr. Hurst  said, that the policy of parliament had always been to spare, amongst the objects of taxation, as much as possible, the indispensable necessaries of life, and he should therefore give his strenuous opposition to a duty which went to raise the price of all articles of human sustenance, in which salt was made use of. It was the duly of his majesty's ministers, when a tax was fairly objected to, to endeavour to find out
 791
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that the difference to which the hon. member had alluded had been formerly considered by parliament, but that was done for the relief of the manufacturer, and not for the benefit of the consumer. As to the consideration of the northern fisheries, parliament would doubtless continue the same bounties to them as had been granted for a century past. The allusion which another hon. member had made to a situation in common life, was not exactly analogous; in Ins opinion the comparison would be more correctly made with the situation of a sailor who complained to his captain of the hardships which he suffered while at sea in tempestuous weather; and the captain gave him hopes that he should have better weather, and said that he then would have less labour. However, contrary to the expectation of the captain, the gale rose with considerable increased fury, when he had thought that it had nearly subsided, and the vessel sprung a leak. The captain then says, now you must do double work, for, if you don't work away at the pumps, the ship will inevitably sink; there is no other means of saving her. Now, if any other measure of equal benefit to the sate could be proposed, he should be very glad to hear it.
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  stated, that the report of this committee had been ordered to be reprinted under an impression, that the printing of it should not cause any delay to the bill. The salt duty was collected at an expence of only 2 per cent, being less than any other tax required in the collection. The fisheries could not be effected by the tax, as they would continue still to have the duty free.
 The Master of the Rolls  was of opinion that some legislative measure ought to be resorted to, in order to settle this question, which certainly stood at present upon bad grounds. Either the committee should have the whole judgment of the case, or the house should retain it altogether. The question whether counsel should be heard, was not to be decided by any abstract reasoning, but by what had been the practice of parliament. All courts of justice had the same principles. He did not know how far the sheriffs were bound by the report of the committee; that was to be regulated by the practice of the house. The hon. gent. had said that he did not agree with the decision of the house on a former day. He had not been himself in the house at the time of that decision, but fully concurred in it. There had been no
 834 835
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  perceived that the question was rendered much narrower than in a former debate, when the hon. gent.' (Mr. Fox) argument went to hearing the whole of the case. The motion of the hon. gent. (Mr. Sheridan) which he understood the other hon. member to acquiesce in was solely confined to the hearing of counsel. If counsel were at all to be heard, this was the time; and if the house should be of that opinion, he should not object to it. At the same time he confessed, that from the best consideration he had been able to bestow on the subject, he was not aware of any case in which the party had been heard either by his counsel or by himself. But there were a variety of cases, and no doubt there must be some of them bearing on this question, and she wing what was the sense of parliament upon it. The resolution of the committee had been accompanied with the evidence, and appeared to him to come under the fourth head contained in the report of the committee appointed in 1789 to examine into precedents. He did not think, and he was sure no gent, who heard him could think, that much light could be thrown upon the particular case by the arguments of counsel, however it might be desirable with a view to the general principle to have them called in Me agreed, that the question ought to be decided not by any abstract reasoning, but by what had been the practice of the house. The point of importance was, not to set the example of departing from the practice of parliament, nor to follow the example of attributing less weight to the decision of their committees. As, however, a number of gentlemen seemed to be of opinion that counsel should be heard, and his learned friend also inclined to that opinion, he should not have any objection, provided, however, it was to be clearly understood, that no other proposition was to be grounded on his agreeing to this.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted that he did think the present question involved in the former one. But when the debate had been last adjourned, it was under a distinct notice of the present motion, and therefore the counsel ought to have been prepared. He was not disinclined to grant any time consistent with the orders of the house, but it was derogatory from the dignity of the house to suffer itself to be trifled with. If the counsel, when called in, could assign any good reason for not being prepared to proceed, he should have no objection to agree to any convenient interval, before the debate should be resumed.—he order for resuming the debate being then read, and, the counsel being called in, on the motion of Mr. Sheridan,
 Mr. Adam  appeared at the bar, as counsel for the sheriffs, and stated, that he was not perfectly prepared; but, if the house desired, he would proceed in the best manner he could. He allowed it was highly unbecoming in any man to appear at the bar of the House of Commons, otherwise than with every preparation which the best exertion of his faculties would enable him to attain. But if he might take the liberty of alluding to any thing that had passed in that house, there were some circumstances that had appeared in the printed votes of the house, which, in some measure, justified his precent deficiency of preparation; It was at first to be understood from these votes, that it was the intention of the house to hear counsel; from a subsequent vote, it was understood that counsel was not to be heard. He was now in attendance merely from the accident of having been in the neighbourhood, which had afforded his clients the opportunity of informing him that his presence was likely to be required. He took the liberty to remind the house, that there was no order for hearing counsel this day; and though having formerly turned his mind very attentively to the whole of the circumstances of this case, and the law connected with it, he may possibly be still capable of calling many branches of it to his recollection so as not to be totally unqualified to present a statement of it to the house; yet he would consider it as matter of favour to himself, and advantage, to his clients, if he was allowed time to review the case. He, therefore, conjured the house, to permit him again to look attentively over the precedents of parliament in this case, from the earliest times, and the law connected with them; as without this revision, he could but ill discharge his duty. The indulgence of the house would be applied by him in the best manner he could to the convenience of the house itself, by concentrating all that was important in the facts of the case, in the precedents, and the law upon them, so as to take up as little time as possible in his statement.—The counsel having withdrawn;
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after what he had heard from the counsel, though he was not satisfied that the counsel had not heard something which it was not so proper for him to hear, he would not press the hearing of counsel this day, But after ail the delay this busi-
 838
 Mr. Fox  thought it unnecessary to trouble the house, after the opinion that had been given by the noble lord. He should only observe, that all the arguments that had been used on a former day applied against the hearing of evidence, not against the hearing of counsel. The argument had been that the evidence on oath before the committee was better than any parole evidence. The house had decided this question; but he, notwithstanding that decision, remained of his former opinion, and thought that evidence out to be heard before they agreed to the report of the committee, and consequently counsel. The committee had had the advantage of the comments of counsel, of which they had not made any report. Why should not the house have the enjoyment of that advantage. It had been argued that the house ought to have confidence in their committee and agree to the report. But why stop there? why not place the same confidence in their recommendation to hear counsel. He thought it an extraordinary circumstance that a member, of great weight in that house for talents and official situation, should come down and persuade the house to a conclusion in the teeth of all his precedents. He hoped that some way would be found out for hearing counsel, on the present case, as the contrary course would not be very honourable to the house.
 Mr. Fox  contended that they had no right to conclude that any other course would be adopted than that which had taken place on a former night, and he put it to the candour of the right hon. gent. himself whether he was not of the same opinion.
 Lord Marsham  concurred in the object of the hon. gent. though he differed with him in his statements of facts, and the conclusions which he drew from them. He agreed with that hon. gent. in wishing the sheriffs to be heard by counsel, and on this subject there had been hardly any difference in the committee, whose sentiments he expressed. The whole of the evidence undoubtedly had not been laid before the house, but such parts had been selected as were best calculated to enable them to form a just opinion on the conduct of the sheriffs. All that dry part of the evidence respecting particular votes, which could throw no light on the subject, had been omitted. As to the assertion that the sheriffs had not been fully heard, he should say, that though the committee had informed their counsel that they need not attend during the whole of the scrutiny.
 833
 Mr. Fuller  said, that he was sorry to observe in the enumeration made by the hon. gent. who opened the debate, he had omitted the mention of his relation, Mr. Rose Fuller, who sat as chairman of the committee which framed that bill, and was as strenuous in support of it, as Sir G. Saville, or any of those whom the hon. gent. had selected a gentleman who was only attached to the service of his courttry, and kept himself always free from the contests of any parties.
 Mr. Sheridan  then informed the house that the learned gentlemen, supposing the proceedings would be the same as on the former night, were not prepared to proceed.
 Mr. Sheridan  explained by observing, that he was still of opinion with his hon. friend near him, that evidence ought to be heard, though he only how contended for hearing counsel. With regard to the evidence on the scrutiny, if it appeared there that a number of voters who had no legal title to vote had been received for Mr. Mainwaring, equal to that of the mill voters, then the charge of corruption would be done away.
 Mr. Sheridan  rose for the purpose of opposing the resumption of the debate now. His intention was, if the house should agree with him in negativing that motion, to follow up the question by a motion for hearing counsel on behalf of the sheriff's previous to resuming the debate on some future day, it was not his wish to enter
 830 831 832
 Mr. Adam  appeared at the bar. The learned counsel began by expressing his thanks to the house for the indulgence shewn him on a former evening, by postponing the consideration of this subject, and thus affording him an opportunity of more satisfactorily preparing his mind for the discharge of the important duty which belonged to him. For this he was the more grateful, because he was thus enabled to do that which, notwithstanding the utmost solicitude for the interest of his clients, he felt it unnecessary to do before the committee, upon whose report the house was now called on to decide. Before he proceeded to shew that the resolutions of that committee were unfounded in law, and the justice of the case, and that they were not sustained by the evidence on the table, he took occasion to observe, that from the order made in pursuance of which he appeared at that bar, the resolutions were perfectly open for discussion. He also felt himself intitled to think, that the mind of the house was quite open upon the subject. If, then, he could make it appear that the committee had drawn conclusions from the evidence in charging the sheriffs with corruption, which that evidence did not warrant, and which were quite irreconcileable with all the probabilities arising out of the nature of the case and the character of the sheriffs, he had little doubt, that not only the mind of the house at large, but that of the illustrious persons of whom, the committee was composed, would be prompt to determine against the resolutions. In those resolutions he begged the house to observe, that the committee had not only exceeded the evidence, but the charges of the petitioners who originally complained of the conduct of the sheriffs. The petitioners complained of the sheriffs having acted unduly: but the committee resolved that they acted corruptly, and did, knowingly and wilfully, admit fictitious votes to be put upon
 840 841 842 843 844 845
 Mr. Rose  said, he had given his whole attention to this case, and he conceived it as strong as possible in favour of the resolution. He was happy the sheriffs had had the benefit of counsel, who had discharged his duty so ably; that if it were possible for any argument to alter the impression of plain and strong facts, he would have made their criminality disappear. He saw in the whole of the proceedings of the election a general partiality of the sheriffs in favour of one of the candidates. They had from this partiality put on the poll a number of votes notoriously bad; they had acted in some cases judicially, in others ministerially: they had admitted the mill votes contrary to every possible right. Here the right hon. gent. entered into a detail of the partial conduct of the sheriffs. They had a person who was called the orator to declaim against Mr. Mainwaring in front of the hustings, and to apply every vilifying expression to that gent.; and when the impropriety was represented to them, they contented themselves with saying he was a droll fellow. They permitted the flags of Sir F. Burdett to be displayed in front of the hustings, with the motto of "No bastile" upon them; they suffered black bread and dead vermin to be exhibited, as if this were a specimen of the treatment in a prison with which Mr. Mainwaring was supposed to be connected. A man naked from the waist upwards, of an emaciated appearance, was exhibited with another flogging him, with a view to cast odium on the same gentleman. All this was permitted for several days, notwithstanding it was allowed there was a sufficiency of constables in attendance to put a stop to such disgraceful scenes. When Mr. Mainwaring attempted to speak, an outcry was raised which rendered it impossible for him to be heard. When Sir F. Burdett abused the Bastile, one of the sheriffs' prompted him; and the sheriffs' clerks wore Burdett's colours. When facilities were given for inflaming the mob, which
 847 848
 Mr. W. Smith  felt unwilling, after the weighty arguments that had been urged on both sides of the question, to obtrude himself on the attention of the house; but he was desirous to offer some remarks which had escaped the notice of the gentlemen who had already delivered their sentiments on the subject, he most sincerely hoped that no gent. would give his vote on it who had not heard the able speech of the learned counsel at the bar, and who had not studied with attention the documents on the table. He was in some difficulty with regard to the part he should take in the question. He certainly thought, that very considerable blame attached to the sheriffs for their conduct; but he could not allow that their motives were corrupt; and on this point he should feel inclined to differ from the decision of the committee. In his opinion, the right hon. gent. who had commenced the discussion had aggravated the case, by dwelling on circumstances omitted by the committee. The exhibitions to which he alluded were certainly scandalous, but unfortunately in most contested elections, particularly those of Middlesex and Westminster, such outrages were but too frequent. The hon. gent. commented on the evidence of Mr. Adolphus, which, he said, was in some points contradicted by other testimony. He perfectly agreed with the noble lord that the point of most consequence related to the mill voters: had it been his situation, he certainly would not have acted as the sheriffs had done; but it did not follow that they acted corruptly. He thought most of the statements of the learned gent. who had just sat down, irrefragable; there were strong proofs of ill temper and passion, exhibited during the election; he meant only on the part of one of the sherifls, for from this charge Mr. Cone was exonerated. As to the case of Mr. Albion Copper, whom Mr. Silvester had threatened to prosecute, if he had been a wilfully perjured man, would be have been selected as an evidence on behalf of Mr. Mainwaring before the committee? Though he admitted that were was a difference between a solicitor and a barrister at law, yet Mr. Burcball was no common solicitor; and if he ware himself a sheriff, he should trust to his advice as soon as to that of many barristers he could name. He knew not Mr. Burchall personally, nor at all until the present transaction, but from his great experience in the affairs of the county, he thought him as capable of
 853
 Sir. W. W. Wynne  agreed completely with the noble lord who had been chairman of the committee. That the sheriffs had acted very improperly no man could' deny. He thought, however, that their1 guilt consisted as much in acts of omission as of commission. Their conduct with respect to the mill voters was highly reprehensible.
 Lord Henniker  observed, that the hon. gent (Mr. Smith) seemed to be mistaken respecting the power of the magistrates at the election. The power was chiefly vested in the sheriffs on these occasions, and it depended on them to restore order, and keep within due bounds the proceedings of the mob. They, therefore, were answerable for whatever misconduct might have taken place.
 Mr. W. Smith  explained, by observing that he did not say that it was the business of the magistrates in the first instance to quell the tumult; but only said, that if the conduct of the mob was so gross as it was on some occasions represented, the magistrates might have interfered, and the sheriffs would scarcely have refused their concurrence in such measures.—The question was then loudly called for, and strangers were ordered to withdraw. Whilst we were excluded from the gallery, the house agreed to the resolutions of the committee without a division. On our re-admission we found
 Mr. C. Wynne  observed, that it was on all hands agreed that the conduct of the sheriffs had been extremely improper in admitting the Mill votes; but there was a doubt entertained1 whether they had acted corruptly, and not rather from neglect Or inattention. This might be discovered by a reference to other parts of their conduct. The under sheriff's opinion relative to a reference to the land-tax assessments, seemed to be formed on a supposition that the act of parliament was absurd, he thought that the house should follow up its adoption of the resolutions of the committee, with some other proceedings, for the sake of asserting the right of electors, as well as the privileges of the house; and he had only to regret the length of time that it had been delayed.—The question was then put on the motion, when
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in order to obviate the argument of the hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Fox), thought, that, as the most striking breach of law that had been committed by the sheriffs, was their having admitted the votes of persons who were not to be found in the assessments to the land tax, the words "as well as by refusing to refer to the assessments to the land tax," should be inserted in the motion. As this formed part of the guilt of the sheriffs, it ought to be expressed in the resolution of the house, especially as it had been attempted by some persons to define the duty of the sheriffs, otherwise than as the law directed. This would be a security that no sheriffs hereafter would act as those sheriffs had done in the instance under consideration.
 The Attorney General  proved from a passage in the evidence given by Mr. Adolpbus, that the sheriffs had declared it not to be their duty to examine the books of assessments, and had refused to refer to them, and he therefore supported the amendment.
 Mr. W. Smith  said he had already stated what he now begged to repeat, that the evidence of Mr. Adolphus ought not to be considered as conclusive by the house.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  also cited some passages from the evidence, to shew that the sheriffs had not attended to a request on the part of Mr. Mainwaring, that they might refer to the assessments of the land tax. The house agreed to the amended motion; "That the said R. A. Cox, and sir W. Rawlins, knt. by then conduct and practices at the said election, as stated in the foregoing resolutions, as well as by refusing to refer to the assessments to the land tax, have acted in violation of their duty, contrary to law, and in breach of the privilege's of that house."—It was then ordered, on the motion of Mr. Rose, "That the said R. A. Cox, and Sir W. Rawlins, knt. for their said offence, be committed to his majesty's gaol of Newgate, and that the speaker do issue his warrant accordingly."—Adjourned.
 The Speaker  put the question, that the house do agree with the resolutions of this committee, the substance of which was,
 846
 Mr. Fox  thought that the greatest breach of law committed by the sheriffs, was their having omitted to conform to the injunctions of an act of parliament which no man could deny to be highly improper. As the committee had made
 855
 Mr. Fox  on his legs, commenting on a motion which had been submitted to the house by Mr. Rose, grounded on the re-
 854
 Lord Marsham  assured the house, that the committee had not determined on the report which they had presented, until after the most mature deliberation. How far they were borne out by the evidence before them, it would be for the house to decide. With regard to himself he could confidently say, that he felt no alteration of opinion on the subject, and he rather thought the other members of the committee adhered as closely to their former decision. His lordship went through the whole of the evidence on the table of the house, reading extracts from it, and commenting upon them as he proceeded, The committee had with regret been under the necessity of striking off votes to both par. ties, in every respect good, but that they had not been assessed to the laud tax. The outrages complained of by the right hon. gent. who opened the debate were unjustifiable, although some exertions had certainly been made by the sheriffs to suppress them. The learned counsel had insisted strongly on the propriety of the sheriffs being tried by the evidence which they had it in their power at the moment to benefit themselves by, and not by that afterwards collected for the Committee. He acknowledged the justness of this observation, and accordingly the committee in their report had withdrawn all that part of the evidence relating to the mill voters, which the sheriffs could not be in possession of at the time of the election. The committee were certainly of opinion, that by acting sometimes judicially and sometimes ministerially, the
 850
 Lord Marsham  had some doubt whether the amendment proposed by the right hon. gent. could be agreed to consistently with the report. The evidence, as well as he could recollect, did not prove that the sheriffs refused the reference, but that they would not stop the poll for it; and they certainly bad not facilitated, the reference to the assessments, which was left to be made in the particular booths.
 Mr. P. Moore  expressed his astonishment at the extreme frivolity of some of the observations of the right hon. gent. who had just sat down. If the committee had fallen into an error, he was sure nothing could be further from the intention of the noble lord who had presided in that committee; nothing could be further from the intention of the committee themselves, than that the house should sacrifice their integrity for the purpose of maintaining them in an opinion proved to be erroneous. The right hon. gent. had expatiated largely on the conduct of the sheriffs, he only hoped, that if it ever fell to that right hon. gent's lot to have the honour of filling the office of sheriff, he might execute the duties of his situation with as much credit and propriety as the gentlemen who were now the subjects of discussion. After the very luminous speech which the house had heard from the learned counsel at the bar, he should abbreviate what he had to say as much as possible. The hon. gent. here entered into an examination of the report of the committee, and of the evidence on which that report was founded. He asserted, that although there might be 30 or 40 bad qualifications for votes on the part of Sir F. Burdett, there were ten times as many on the other side. The committee had struck out 600 votes indifferently on both sides, because the voters had not been assessed to the land-tax. The papers on the table proved that the sheriffs had refused votes for Sir F. Burdett as well as for Mr. Mainwaring: 128 votes admitted by them for the last-named candidate were struck off by the committee, because they were official, and not freehold votes. Could any circumstance rebut the charge of partiality more strongly than this? He reprobated the conduct of the right hon.
 849
 The Solicitor General (Sir Vicary Gibbs)  did not think it necessary to trouble the house long, when he recollected the mass of evidence which had lain so long on the table, and with which members must by this time have become familiar. He had listened with the utmost attention to the arguments of the learned gent. at the bar, but he owned that he remained entirely unconvinced by them. In considering the merits of the question, the acts of irregularity mentioned by his right hon. friend near him, ought not to be wholly omitted, as they tended distinctly to shew the motives by which the sheriffs had been actuated. The question was, whether or not the sheriffs, with an intention of giving sir F. Burdett an unfair majority, did wilfully and corruptly admit the mill-voters, knowing them at the same time to be bad, and on the 15 day of the poll, towards the close, when the majority turned in favour of sir Francis, rejected votes exactly similar to those they had before accepted. Examine them by their own evidence. They had laid down two rules for their conduct; one, how to acquire information, the other, how to act on such information when acquired. The hon. and learned gent. proved, by an examination of the circumsances of the case, that they either departed from, these rules, or adhered to them as inconvenience dictated. After exposing the' impossibility that the sheriffs should be ignorant of the absurdity of the claims set up by the Isleworth mill-holders to aright of voting, from their possession of a freehold, be commented severely on their conduct with regard to Albion Copper.
 851
 The Secretary at War  brought up a clause by way of rider, which contained the oath to be in future administered to all members serving on regimental courts martial, and also another for swearing all the witnesses who should give evidence before them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed
 860
 The Secretary at War  defended the clause on the grounds that an innovation had been made by the regimental courts martial taking cognizance of higher crimes under different names. It was time, therefore, that the evidence against the soldier should be examined with the solemnity of an oath, that the punishment for perjury might follow close upon falsehood. He had consulted several general officers, who were for the most part against the clause, but they had alleged no sufficient reasons. He could not agree to have none as president of a court martial who was not 21 years of age, on account of the inconvenience which it would produce.
 Earl Temple  was against the oath being administered, where the person who swore falsely was not liable to the penalties of perjury, as must be the case in a regimental court martial, which was not a court of record like a general court martial.
 Mr. S. Bourne  said, that persons perjuring themselves before a regimental court martial, should be made liable to all its penalties.
 Sir W. W. Wynne  in reference to one of the observations of the chancellor of the exchequer, said, that in the militia, he knew of many captains in regiments, who were neither 21 years of age, and had not been so much as two years in the service.
 Colonel Franklund  spoke very warmly against the bill, as likely to breed great dissentions, and promote disputes and unhappiness amongst the men, who would be thus encouraged to threaten their comrades with indictments for perjury if they gave evidence unfavourable to the accused. The practice which the clause went to abolish had prevailed for time immemorial, and without any complaint against it, from the reign of W. HI. down to the present moment, though the mutiny bill was brought every year before the eyes of parliament. This was merely a question of speculative good, offered to practical experience, for which reason he would give it his decided negative.
 Colonel Stewart  said, he could not oppose the clauses, on account of the manner in which regimental courts martial proceeded, as they were now constituted. He
 861
 General Stewart  said, he was anxious that on account of the similarity of their names, his opinion should not be confounded with that of the hon. officer who spoke before him, and whose proposal, of placing 6 or 7 officers in these courts martial would be impracticable in places where troops were detached, sometimes at the distance of one hundred miles asunder.—After a few words from General Fitzpatrick, the first clause was agreed to, and added to the bill; and, on the question being put on the second clause authorizing the administering of oaths as to the witnesses,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he really thought the bill would not produce the pressure which some gentlemen apprehended, He believed the tax would fall on the consumer; and the increase it, would create in the price of the article of corn would amount to a sum so trifling, that no one could think it any inconvenience to any body. The whole of the duty was estimated at 300,000l. one-third of which would be borne by those who kept horses for trades in large towns, brewers and the like, so that the whole amount of the duty on husbandry was only 200,000l. The amount of the rental of England alone was 37 millions; including Scotland, it was 40 millions. The produce of land had been calculated under the mark many years ago, and since which great improvements had been made; in no case was it calculated at less than 3 tines the rent; in many it was 5 and 6 times that amount; but taking it moderately, at 4 times the rent, the annual produce would then be 100 sterling. Now, this duty was only one 7 50th part of that produce on the whole average of the kingdom; and taking the bill in the most objectionable shape in which gentlemen chose to put it, that was, distinguishing the arable from pasture land, and taking it to be more on the arable than on the pasture, it would then be the
 863
 Mr. Coke (of Norfolk)  said, he was perfeetly convinced the operation of it would be to take away all inclination to agricultural improvements. There were at this moment fewer horses employed than when the last tax took place, and there could not be a doubt but that, from this additional tax, the number would continue to decrease, which must of course prove an injury to the general interests of agriculture. It would prevent the bringing of marle from any considerable distance, and render the carriage of every kind of manure more difficult and tedious, from the decrease in the number of horses. He was thoroughly satisfied, that if the tax took place, the same quantity of corn would not be grown as had been heretofore, which must prove highly injurious to the country, and contribute to enhance the price of bread. It was, he said, an old, and he believed, a true saying, that when poverty once gets into the stable, it will not be long before it makes its way into the house. He warned the right hon. gent. that the farmer might be induced, in many places, to substitute oxen to perform the offices of agriculture. In every part of a country like this, there would be always a prevalence of local prejudices; he could wish they were not so common. In Norfolk, where farming was carried to a great degree of nicety, he believed there was no such thing known as the use of oxen in husbandry, but it was otherwise in many other counties, and might be brought into far more general use in those counties where there was more grazing land. If the farmer did not receive a fair remuneration, there could be no doubt his corn would grow less. From all these considerations, therefore, he should certainly vote against the motion.
 Sir W. W. Wynne  argued that the present tax would bear heavily, in particular on the holders of mountainous farms, where six horses are sometimes required to do work which two could perform in a low flat country. He hoped also that there would be an exemption, if the bill were persevered in, of horses under 14½ hands high.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declared his intention to propose in the committee an alteration with respect to the duty in Scotland. The increase would be proportionate to the present rate of duty in that country and here. If this was not exactly fair, consistently with the qualities of the salt in both countries, he pledged himself, on inquiry, to bring it to the proper standard. After a short conversation the house divided: For the second, reading 92—Against it 54—Majority 38.—The bill was then read a second time, and ordered to be committed,—Adjourned.
 Mr. Fox  said, that although farms of 20l. a year were exempt, yet thousands of small farms were now subject to the tax, and ought to be relieved from its pressure.
 Mr. Grey  said, that he agreed with all his hon. friends, that a more injurious tax could not be proposed. If we are to bear additional burdens, that cannot be done without attending to the principal resources of the country. He was doubtful as to the real policy of the corn bill, but sure he was, in his own mind, that the less parliament interfered in matter of that kind, the better. In every view of it, he thought there could not be a more impolitic tax than the present, for it would operate as a discouragement to agriculture, and consequently prove highly injurious to the country.—After this a desultory conversation took place: Sir R. Buxton, Mr. Bastard, and Mr. Fellows, opposed the Bill; the Attorney General and Mr. Huskisson supported it; after which the house divided: For the second reading 73—Against it 76—Majority against the Bill 3.
 Mr. Giles  opposed it as immediately pressing hard on agriculture, and would not soon fail to fall on the consnmer. He had, however, one objection to the tax entirely, and that was, a breach of faith with the farmers. They were only to be taxed three-fourths of their rents, which was an estimation of his profits, and you cannot lay a direct tax on the profits of the farmer without making an alteration in his property tax; for if you lay a tax on him, you diminish his profits, which cannot be done without a breach of faith.
 Mr. Canning  contended that the arguments of the hon. gent. who spoke last, proved too much, and therefore ought not to weigh in the consideration of a measure of this nature.
 Lord De Blaquiere  said, wanted no innovation in the system, but to have things brought back to their original institution, to confine the jurisdiction of regimental courts-martial to trifling offences, instead, of trying, as they do now, offences of mutiny, desertion, &c. under names that did not belong to them. He wished to have limited also the quantum of the punishment they should be entitled to inflict, for he had seen a man sentenced by a regimental Court-martial to receive one thousand strokes, for an offence, which, on board a ship, would not have been punished with more than a dozen lashes. At the same time, he confessed that he did not like to hear the solemnity of an oath should be resorted to in every trivial charge of drunken frolic, or being late on the parade.
 Mr. Fuller  was against the clause, as tending unnecessarily to multiply oaths.
 General Fitzpatrick  then rose, and, after adverting to his proposal on a former day, that no person should be permitted to sit as president on a regimental court mar-
 858 859
 Mr. Plumer  rose to object to it; his reason for doing so was, that the duty bore, with a very extraordinary degree of pressure, on the farmer; and, consquently, in the end, on the landed interest. The farmers of this country, he said, were by no means that very opulent class of men they had been falsely represented to be, and he was well convinced, the times were better
 862
 Sir Eyre Coote  defended the clause, because it gave greater solemnity to courts martial. The object was the discovery of truth, and how could truth be more effectually discovered than by putting the witnessess on oath?
 Sir J. Wrottesley  was adverse to the bill, on account of the bad effects to be apprehended from it; amongst which, he mentioned the certainly that, in all parts of the country where soldiers may be tried by regimental courts martial, upon charges brought against them by the townsmen or inhabitants amongst whom they were quartered, there would be found petty fogging attorneys on the watch to take advantage of the slightest circumstance that could afford any ground whatever for menaces of indictments, or actual prosecutions for perjury. Both the clauses being added to the bill, it immediately passed, and was ordered to the lords.
 Sir J. Pulteney  said, he did not think this clause would be attended with any material inconvenience; but, considering how soon the present mutiny bill would expire, and that it must undergo a discussion in the other house, he doubted whether there would be time to pass it with those amendments.
 Sir James Pulteney  opposed the clause on the grounds that the long-established practice in the army ought not to be altered without the maturest deliberation.
