ls on behalf of the promoters, said he must not be understood to accept either in detail or in full, any of the statements of the right lion. Gentleman with regard to the functions of the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies; or still less as to what was the intention of Parliament in framing the law which now regulated friendly societies as to the arrangements which very often existed between private employers and their workmen. The Amendment seemed to him to be entirely covered by paragraph (ls(Manchester, S.W.)MR. W. J. GALLOWAY (Manchester, S.W.)
506: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War if he is aware that the allowance of ball and blank ammunition, to Engineer Volunteers has been greatly reduced, and whether the
506(Sheffield, Central)SIR HOWARD VINCENT (Sheffield, Central)
: I beg to ask the Financial Secretary to the War Office how many contractors are employed to provide the meat for the pensioners at Royal Chelsea Hospital; and if the contract specially provides for the supply of English, meat?COLONEL LOCKWOOD
: One contractor supplies the Royal Hospital at Chelsea, but the Infirmary contract is sometimes given to a separate firm. The meat is of the best description, and of English origin—as far as it is possible to be certain on the point.Birmingham, S.)THE FINANCIAL SECRETARY TO THE WAR OFFICE (Mr. J. POWELL-WILLIAMS, Birmingham, S.)
 asked whether the hon. Gentleman was aware that there were two contractors engaged in the supply of the meat to the hospital, the one being the person with whom the contract was entered into by the Government, and the other being a sub-contractor who actually supplied the meat?COLONEL LOCKWOOD
 said that he was not aware of the fact. As far as he knew there was only one contractor engaged.MR. POWELL-WILLIAMS
 asked whether the hon. Gentleman would make inquiries into the matter?COLONEL LOCKWOOD
 said that if the hon. and gallant Gentleman would furnish him with the particulars of the case, he would inquire into them.MR. POWELL-WILLIAMS
 asked who were responsible for seeing that the meat supplied was of good quality?(Cork, E.)CAPTAIN DONELAN (Cork, E.)
 said he believed that the senior officer at the hospital was responsible.MR. POWELL-WILLIAMS
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland if he can state the number of persons on out-door relief in each electoral division of the West-port and Castlebar Unions for the month of February 1896, and the corresponding numbers for the same month in 1897?(Mayo, W.)DR. ROBERT AMBROSE (Mayo, W.)
508: The number of persons on outdoor relief in the Westport Union during the month of February 1895 was 608, us compared with 1,320 during February
508THE CHIEF SECRETARY FOR IRELAND (Mr. GERALD BALFOUR, Leeds Central)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, in the cavalry reorganisation scheme, what troops will be quartered in Canterbury; and what amount will be allowed for building barracks, stabling, etc., for horses and men stationed there?(Canterbury)MR. HENNIKER HEATON (Canterbury)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War the number of men discharged, at their own request, from Chelsea Royal Hospital in each year from 1890 to the present time?(Essex, Epping)COLONEL LOCKWOOD (Essex, Epping)
: As I have already informed the hon. Member, I do not propose to introduce legislation on the subject referred to.MR. HANBURY (for Mr. RITCHIE)
: It is the case that Auxiliary Sorting Clerks, eight in number, have been employed for some years at the Limerick Post Office at the reduced pay ordinarily given to unestablished officers not giving a full day's attendance. A proposal is now before the Treasury for making an addition to the permanent staff of sorting clerks at Limerick, and should the necessary authority be received, the opportunity will be taken of placing as many as possible of these Auxiliary Sorting Clerks on the Establishment.THE SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY (Mr. R. W. HANBURY, Preston)
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether it is now the practice of the Chief Land Commission to hear all fair rent appeal cases from the barony of Duhallow, County Cork, at the sittings in killarney; and, in view of the greater convenience to landlords, tenants, and professional men, will the Commission arrange to have the appeals heard in the city of Cork?(Cork, N.)MR. J. C. FLYNN (Cork, N.)
*510: The barony mentioned in the Question comprises the Poor Law Unions of Mill Street, Kanturk, and Mallow. As a rule, all cases from Mill Street and Kanturk Unions are heard at Killarney, as being the most
510MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (1) whether his attention has been called to the fact that in 19 out of 22 appeals, recently heard by the Chief Commission, from the judicial rents fixed by the Sub-Commission for County Wexford, on the estate of L. M. B. Colclough, the Chief Commission raised the fair rents fixed by the Sub-Commissioners, and in no instance reduced any of them; and (2) whether he will give the names of the Court Valuers, on whose Report the Chief Commissioners, without inspecting the holdings themselves, so generally increased the judicial rents fixed In the Sub-Commissioners who had heard all the evidence in Court, and who had also inspected the various holdings?(Down, S.)MR. M. McCARTAN (Down, S.)
*: I am informed that the result of the decisions is correctly stated in the first question. I must decline to give the names of the Court Valuers who inspected the holdings in these cases, or to accept the hon. Member's assumption that these officers, and not the Land Commissioners, are responsible for the rents fixed on appeal.MR.GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether he is aware that, under the 47th Section of the Land Law (Ireland) Act 1896, an application was made by Bernard Rorke, Drumlane, County Cavan, to the Lord Commission; that the receiver on the Burrowes Estate objected; and whether this objection was made by direction of the Court; and whether any steps can be taken by the Government in the case of encumbered estates to prevent official receivers objecting to the applications of evicted tenants under this section?(Cavan, W.)MR. J. P. FARRELL (Cavan, W.)
*: The application of Bernard Rorke, referred to in the Question, was objected to by the Receiver in accordance with a ruling of the Land Judge.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the objection was made by direction of the Court?MR. J. P. FARRELL
*: I am afraid I am not able to give the hon. Gentleman more positive information. I understand it was in pursuance of a ruling of the Land Judge.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I will repeat the Question.MR. J. P. FARRELL
: I beg to ask the Attorney General for Ireland whether he is aware of the dissatisfaction existing in Drogheda among business and professional men owing to the great inconvenience of having the sittings of the County Court and Quarter Sessions held in Drogheda on the same days as similar sittings are held in Navan and Kells; and whether some arrangement can be made with the County Court Judges to accommodate the public by having the sittings fixed in these towns on different days?(Louth, S.)MR. R. McGHEE (Louth, S.)
*: The clashing of the sittings of the Civil Bill Courts at Navan and Drogheda has occurred this year for the first time for the last ten years, and may not occur again. No dissatisfaction such as is mentioned in the question exists, nor is there apparently any ground for it. As the County Court Judge presiding at Drogheda made arrangements to enable solicitors who had business at Navan to attend there. The dates for the holding of the session are fixed by the Chairman of each county in exercise of the power conferred on him by Statute. The Executive have no power in the matter.Londonderry, N.)THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. J. ATKINSON, Londonderry, N.)
: On behalf of the hon. Member for Staffordshire, Leek (Mr. BILL), I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War whether, considering the excellent fighting qualities and discipline shown by the Hausa force commanded by Major Arnold in the late campaign on the Niger, the Secretary of War will reconsider his decision to raise another West Indian Regiment for service on the West Coast of Africa, and arrange instead for the new battalion to be recruited exclusively from the Hausa tribes?(Clapham)MR. P. THORNTON (Clapham)
: I beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether he can take any steps with a view to the prevention of overcrowding in the carriages of the Metropolitan and Metropolitan District Railways?(ROSS and Cromarty)MR. J. G. WEIR (ROSS and Cromarty)
: On a previous occasion my right hon. Friend informed the hon. Member that there was no provision inflicting a penaly on a railway company for overcrowding. It is very difficult to prevent passengers who are anxious to start on their journey from entering one or other of the many carriages which compose a train. The Board of Trade have no power in the matter. They fear that they cannot add anything to that reply.MR. HANBURY (for Mr. RITCHIE)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any one of the States signatories of the North Sea Convention has withdrawn from the Convention or has given notice to withdraw?MR. WEIR
: I beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether, in the event of the Channel Fleet visiting the coasts of Scotland this summer, he will consider the advisability of calls being made at Stornoway and Invergordon?MR. WEIR
: I must refer the hon. Gentleman to the answer I gave to a similar question last Friday by the hon. Member for the Wick Burghs.St. George's, Hanover Square)THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY (Mr. GOSCHEN, St. George's, Hanover Square)
: I am not aware what was that answer. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would repeat it.MR. WEIR
: It was that the movements of the Channel Squadron will he determined by naval considerations only, and will not he influenced by Parliamentary pressure.THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY
: I beg to ask the Lord Advocate whether he is aware that the present condition of the School Board electorate of Scotland, under which a very large number of ratepayers have no voice in the elections, is the source of grave dissatisfaction; and whether it is proposed to take any steps to amend the law?MR. WEIR
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, if he will state when lie proposes to bring in a Bill placing Parish Councils in Scotland on the same footing as similar Councils in England in regard to guarantees which may be required by the Postmaster General for improved postal or telegraph facilities?MR. WEIR
: I hope to deal with this subject in the Post Office omnibus Bill, which will probably be introduced soon after Easter.MR. HANBURY
514: On behalf of the hon. Member for South Donegal (Mr. SWIFT MACNEILL), I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (1) whether a British cruiser has captured three Greek sailing ships carrying provisions from Loutro, on the south-eastern coast, to Souyer, at the south-east end of Crete; and (2) whether the rules of the blockade extend not merely to the import, of provisions but
514(Mayo, E.)MR. JOHN DILLON (Mayo, E.)
: I beg to ask I he Under Secretary of Stale for Foreign Affairs if he can stale the grounds on which Germany has declined to join the other Powers in sending troops to Crete?(Dundee)SIR JOHN LENG (Dundee)
 also asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any of the Powers besides Germany have refused to send reinforcements to Crete; if so, which; and why Britain continues naval and military operations without the full co-operation of the other parties to the European Concert?The HON. MEMBER
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what Powers have sent or have undertaken to send troops to Crete, and what are the grounds assigned for their declining to send troops by the Power or Powers which have so declined?(Montrose Burghs)MR. JOHN MORLEY (Montrose Burghs)
: Will the right hon. Gentleman kindly explain what is meant by the expression "more nearly interested?"MR. J. MORLEY
: Will the expenses of the entire Powers be borne relatively, or will there be an attempt at economy in the Concert of Europe—(Louth, N.)MR. T. M. HEALY (Louth, N.)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the Mussulmans who were rescued from Candano by the international forces have been armed by the Governor of Canea and allowed to take part in fighting the insurgents; and whether it is true, as stated by Colonel Vassos, that he could and would have rescued the Mussulmans a week before the international troops intervened had he been allowed to make arrangements for their removal to Greece as prisoners of war, so as to secure that they would not be further used as combatants against the insurgents?MR. DILLON
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any, and, if so what, information has been received by Her Majesty's Government from the British Consul at Canea with reference to the statement of Colonel Vassos that the besieged Turks who were allowed to leave Candanos and proceed in safety to Canea were armed and sent out to fight the Cretan insurgents, in direct contravention of the written conditions signed by the British Consul and the Commanders of the European Powers acting in the names of their Admirals in Cretan waters?(Flint Boroughs)MR. HERBERT LEWIS (Flint Boroughs)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any of the Great Powers have endeavoured to prevent direct negotiations between the Turkish and Greek Governments for the settlement of the Cretan question; and, if so, with what object?(Sheffield, Ecclesall)SIR ELLIS ASHMEAD-BARTLETT (Sheffield, Ecclesall)
Cheers., who, on returning after illness, was received with cheers from both sides of the House, said: I beg leave to ask the First Lord of the Treasury the following Questions:—First, whether he will state on what date the Turkish troops will be withdrawn from Crete; secondly, whether it is the present intention of Her Majesty's Government to employ the forces of the Crown in a blockade of Greece; and, thirdly, whether Her Majesty's Government will make to the House of Commons a statement on the present situation of affairs in Crete and in Greece, and on the policy of the Government in relation to that situation? [Cheers.(Monmouth, W.)SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT (Monmouth, W.)
Loud cheers.Ministerial cheersCheers.: Before answering the right hon. Gentleman, he will perhaps allow me to congratulate him on his return to the House. [Loud cheers.Ministerial cheersCheers.THE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY (Mr. A. J. BALFOUR, Manchester, E.)
: I should like an answer to the third paragraph of the Question.SIR W. HARCOURT
cheers: Well, Sir, I think the House is realty now in possession of all the material facts both as regards Crete and the general policy of the Government in respect to the preservation of pence on the mainland—[cheersTHE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
Opposition cheers.Ministerial cries of518Opposition cheers: I was very anxious that we should have had a full, statement from the Government of the policy they were intending to pursue, especially having in view the adjournment of the House during the Easier recess — [Opposition cheers.Ministerial cries of518Opposition cheersSIR W. HARCOURT
Ministerial cheers.cheers and laughter: I am not quite sure whether I apprehend that the right hon. Gentleman means by that to raise a definite Vote of Censure upon the Government—[Ministerial cheers.cheers and laughterTHE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
Opposition cheers.Opposition cheers.Ironical Ministerial laughter.Opposition cheers.Ironical Ministerial cheers.519Ministerial cries ofcheers and counter cheersOpposition cheers: My object in asking for a statement from the Government—a statement which has been made by the Governments of other countries on this subject—[Opposition cheers.Opposition cheers.Ironical Ministerial laughter.Opposition cheers.Ironical Ministerial cheers.519Ministerial cries ofcheers and counter cheersOpposition cheersSIR W. HARCOURT
Loud Ministerial cheers.Ministerial cheersMinisterial cheers.520: It will be impossible that any debate should extract from the Government further information than that which we have given to the House. We have explained in the very clearest manner the intentions we have both in Crete and in Greece, and if the right hon. Gentleman's Motion is simply limited to asking us again to repeat that which we have more than once said in this House, I confess I do not think the ordinary course of public business
Loud Ministerial cheers.Ministerial cheersMinisterial cheers.520THE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
: I will put the Motion down on the Paper, as the right hon. Gentleman has been good enough to say he will consider what course he will take in regard to it. The Motion will be put on the Paper, and the object we have in putting it down and desiring its discussion has been sufficiently explained. It will be for the right hon. Gentleman to take the responsibility of preventing that Motion from being discussed.SIR W. HARCOURT
: I beg to ask the Attorney General for Ireland whether in cases of parishes in Ireland now containing fit and secure buildings for the safe custody of their records, the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, under the special power to deal with such given him by the fifth section of The Parochial Records (Ireland) Act, 1876, 39 and 40 Vic, c. 58, is empowered upon application made to him to order that records that have been removed by him to the Record Office in Dublin may be returned to and permitted to remain in the care of the rector, vicar, or curate (as the case may be) of such parishes, upon being satisfied that lit and safe accommodation has been provided for such records and, if not, will the Irish Government take steps to initiate legislation giving the Master of the Rolls in Ireland such power, and thus rendering such records more easy of inspection by interested parties?(Fermanagh, N.)MR. RICHARD M. DANE (Fermanagh, N.)
521: Under the Parochial Records Act of 1876, no power is given to the Master of the Rolls to return to the parish records removed to the Public Record Office after the passing of the
521THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War (1) whether at the present time there is a deficiency amounting to almost 17 per cent. in the establishment of officers for the Militia; and (2) whether the War Office sanctions regiments making up this deficiency during their trainings by procuring the services of Militia Officers from other regiments whose trainings do not coincide, those officers so serving receiving in addition to their ordinary pay special allowances; and (3) if this is so, whether he will issue an Order amending paragraph 243 of the Militia Regulations, so as to allow in place of, or in conjunction with, the present system Officers of the Reserve of Officers who have to go through an annual training to serve with Militia regiments, whereby a considerable saving in expense could be effected without any loss of efficiency?(Aberdeen, N.)CAPTAIN PIRIE (Aberdeen, N.)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War whether those three years' service men who have left the Brigade of Guards, and are now to be, allowed to rejoin, will be compelled to refund any deferred pay they may have received, as is the case with all other reserve men who may desire to rejoin their colours?CAPTAIN PIRIE
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War whether the peace establishment of 6,993 horses, required for the cavalry at home, is fully maintained; and, if not, what is the actual number of horses; and whether, as only about one-half of the establishment of horses are suitable for active service, that is between six and 14 years of age, it is proposed to take any steps to increase the number of efficient horses?CAPTAIN PIRIE
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War what progress has been made in substituting 16-pounders for heavier guns in Volunteer Artillery Position Batteries in Scotland; and whether it is intended to introduce 16-pounder guns into the remaining batteries; and, if so, when it is expected that arrangements for that purpose will be completed?(Glasgow, Bridgeton)SIR CHARLES CAMERON (Glasgow, Bridgeton)
: On behalf of the hon. Member for West Kerry (Sir THOMAS ESMONDE), I beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty if he will state the amount of money voted by Parliament for Naval purposes since 1885, and how much of it has been spent respectively in England, Scotland, and Ireland?CAPTAIN DONELAN
: I must refer the hon. Member to the answer given last Friday by my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House to a similar Question by the hon. Member for the College Green Division of Dublin.THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman, say whether any of Her Majesty's ships have been paid off in Irish ports during the period mentioned in the Question?CAPTAIN DONELAN
: I do not think that the arrangements which exist provide for the paying off of ships in Irish ports.THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether, in view of the number of grocers' spirit licences, which the magistrates in Ireland have been compelled to grant, owing to the state of the Law, he will introduce a Measure assimilating the Law in regard to the granting of grocers' spirit licences to that of granting publicans' licences?(Down, N.)COLONEL WARING (Down, N.)
*bonâ fide: I presume the hon. and gallant Member refers to the decision recently made in Ireland, whereby the publican's licences usually taken out by family grocers, to enable them to sell whisky in quantities between two quarts and two gallons, cannot be renewed where they have not carried on under it the bonâ fideMR. GERALD BALFOUR
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the practice of taking out these grocers' spirit licences is confined almost entirely to the city of Belfast?MR. J. P. FARRELL
*: No; I believe that is not the case.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, whether similar arrangements are being made by the Great Southern and Western Railway Company (Ireland) for the conveyance of third-class passengers by the mail trains, as introduced by the London and North Western Railway Company under the new accelerated mail service to Holyhead?(Limerick, W.)MR. MICHAEL AUSTIN (Limerick, W.)
*: The Postmaster General has no knowledge that arrangements are being made by the Great Southern and Western Railway Company (Ireland) for the conveyance of third-class passengers by the mail trains. The Postmaster General would welcome the conveyance of third-class passengers by mail trains of the Great Southern and Western Railway Company provided that punctuality in the working were maintained, but the matter is one for the decision of the railway company.MR. HANBURY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say how a passenger taking a third-class ticket at Euston can travel to Cork without paying an extra fare at Kingsbridge?MR. MICHAEL AUSTIN
*Laughter: I do not know at all. [LaughterMR. HANBURY
: On behalf of the hon. Member for West Waterford (Mr. J. J. SHEE), I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether he will agree to the Return relating to the Land Law (Ireland) Acts which stands on the Paper this day?CAPTAIN DONELAN
*: The Return in question would entail an enormous amount of labour on the Department of the Land Commission, and would not, in my opinion, be commensurate with the results. I am unable, therefore, to assent to it. Some of the information indicated, I mar add, is already contained in the monthly published Land Commission Returns of Proceedings and Judicial Rents, as well as in the appendices to the annual Report of the Commissioners, and to the Report of the Select Committee on Land Acts of August 1894.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
526: I beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works when the formation of a new doorway to the Terrace, men-
526(Wolverhampton, E.)SIR HENRY FOWLER (Wolverhampton, E.)
: Preparations have been made for doing this work after the Estimate for the Houses of Parliament Buildings shall have been voted. It may take a month or six weeks to carry it out, and I fear it cannot be done while the House is sitting.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (Mr. A. AKERS-DOUGLAS, Kent, St. Augustine's)
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, whether, in view of the fact that thousands of parcels containing liquids, greases, etc., are daily carried through the sample post and delivered to addressees in the United Kingdom, he can in any way modify the statement recently made by him to the effect that the transmission of such packages as samples is impossible; and whether he is aware that, despite the statement recently made by the Post Office that no satisfactory method of transmitting such articles through the letter post has been or can be devised, many hundreds of thousands of such packages are dispatched by the post offices of every country in Europe in accordance with the postal regulations of such countries, and that British manufacturers desiring to send liquid samples by sample post to British Colonies are compelled to forward them to the Continent for dispatch?(Belfast, W.)MR. H. O. ARNOLD-FORSTER (Belfast, W.)
*: I do not know to what statement the hon. Member refers. It was impossible, I said, that substances which it was necessary to pack in airtight canisters should be sent by sample post, but it does not follow that those named by the hon. Member must all be thus named. The Postmaster General is not aware of the number of packages containing liquids and grease which are sent through the post on the Continent of Europe, nor is he aware of the means adopted by British manufacturers for sending liquid samples to British Colonies. The whole question of the transmission of such articles by post, however, is one which the Postmaster General proposes to consider in connection with several other questions of a like nature.MR. HANBURY
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (1) upon what grounds, or upon whose recommendation, the Monaghan Grand Jury at the recent assizes disallowed the contract entered into for the repairs of 775 perches of public road at Cavancreevy, between Middletown and Ballybay, in the County Monaghan; (2) is he aware that the road in question is in an admittedly dangerous state; and (3) that, as it is the only way by which the farmers of five populous townlands can get their produce to market, will he devise some means of redress for those residents in this district?(Monaghan, N.)MR. D. MACALEESE (Monaghan, N.)
*: I am informed that the County Surveyor reported to the Grand Jury that the road in question was not a public road, or of general public utility, that it was questionable whether they had statutory power to repair it, and that there were already 1,200 miles of roads under contract in the county. The Grand Jury, after hearing the parties in favour of the presentment, refused to pass it. I have no information as to the second Question; and, as regards the third Question, I would point out that the Government exercises no control whatever over the proceedings of the Grand Jury in matters of this kind.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland upon what grounds Miss Margaret M'Manus, lady candidate for the representation of the Clones electoral division of the Monaghan Union, at the late election of Guardians, was forcibly ejected from the Board Boom of the Monaghan workhouse; by whose order was Miss M'Manus ejected; and what offence did she commit to render necessary her forcible expulsion?MR. MACALEESE
*528: The only information I have on the subject of the incident referred to is derived from a local newspaper report, from which it appears that Miss M'Manus was removed from the Board Room on the ground that she declined to retire when it was pointed out to her by the Chairman of the Guardians that she had no authority to
528MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether his attention has been called to the proceedings at a meeting held some time ago in Howth, County Dublin, relative to the condition of Howth Harbour; and whether, although it is admitted that the harbour is in urgent need of being dredged, it is proposed to allocate a sum of only £150 to effect the required operation; and, if so, whether the sum will be increased and the Board of Works dredgers, which are now lying in Kingstown Harbour, will be employed to aid in the work?(Dublin Co., N.)MR. J. J. CLANCY (Dublin Co., N.)
*: I have seen the Resolution passed at a meeting held on the 7th November, if that is what the hon. Member means. As a matter of fact, I understand that the low-water depths of the Harbour are quite as good as any that have existed in the last 30 years, even at the time when Howth was the centre of a large herring fishery. The low-water depth at the entrance, and for 400 feet along the West Pier from the Pier Head for some distance out, varies from about 8½ to 8 feet; for 300 feet further for some distance out, from 8 to 5 feet; and for 350 feet further, from 5 to 1 foot. £150 is provided in this year's Estimates for removing about 6 inches more at the entrance, and the work will probably be done by the Kingstown dredgers, if the ground be found suitable.MR. HANBURY
: I beg to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer what is the annual revenue received by the Exchequer on account of tithe rent-charge in Ireland; and whether the amount of this revenue is credited to Ireland in the Return of Irish Revenue; and, if not, why not?MR. CLANCY
*525: No arrangement has yet been come to with the Great Southern and Western Railway Company for the
525MR. HANBURY
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether diplomatic relations have been now resumed betwixt Her Majesty's Government and the Government of Venezuela, and if not fully, then to what extent?(Manchester, N.)MR. C. E. SCHWANN (Manchester, N.)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War if he can state the result of the inquiry into the case of Private Grindle, King's Royal Rifles, who was sentenced to seven days' imprisonment for wearing a shamrock in his cap on last St. Patrick's Day?CAPTAIN DONELAN
Laughter: What compensation will be granted to Private Grindle? [LaughterCAPTAIN DONELAN
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, if he could state what was the cost to the State of the inquiry by the Tweedmouth Committee into the administration of postal establishments?(Leitrim, N.)MR. PATRICK A. M'HUGH (Leitrim, N.)
*: The Postmaster General is not aware of the exact cost of the inquiry because the Office of Works, the Post Office, and the Stationery Office are all concerned, the Post Office bearing the cost of the Secretary, travelling expenses, and allowances to witnesses. But little expense was incurred by the Committee except the ordinary charges for reporting and printing the evidence, and paying the travelling expenses and subsistence allowances of the witnesses, as well as the wages of substitutes who did their duty while they were in London.MR. HANBURY
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, what proportion of the estimated cost of the carrying out of the recommendations of the Tweedmouth Committee will go to the postmen, and what classes of postmen will principally benefit there from?MR. PATRICK A. M'HUGH
*: The postmen will receive about £150,000 a year out of a total expenditure of £275,000 a year. The benefit will practically extend to all classes of postmen, but those postmen who have not reached the maximum of their scale will derive the greater advantage, as they will henceforth receive a larger annual increment to their wages.MR. HANBURY
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, how, in view of his statement that Post Office employés cannot submit to him their objections to the Tweedmouth Committee's Report by way of resolution, they are to be allowed to present their grievances on this subject to the head of the Post Office Department?MR. PATRICK A. M'HUGH
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, whether, considering that no consideration is given to the complaints made by postmen and other postal officials in Ireland, when embodied in resolutions passed by those officials, he will state by what means the complaints of bodies of such officials can be conveyed so as to receive due consideration, and without exposing the officials to loss or censure?MR. McCARTAN
*: It has for a long time been laid down by successive Postmasters General—and the rule is believed to be well understood throughout the Service—that representations from the staff on any subject must be in the form of a memorial, and must be transmitted through their immediate superior officers. Such representations properly made receive full consideration from the Postmaster General, and expose the officials who make them neither to loss nor censure.MR. HANBURY
532: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (1) is he aware that the Grand Jury of Clare passed a resolution at the Spring Assizes, 1896, requesting the Government to take into consideration the claim of the county to a participation in the grant proposed to be made for light railways in Ireland, and stating that they would advocate a railway connecting Lisdoonvarna with Ennistymon and a railway connecting Ennis with Scarriff; and (2) having regard to the fact that the Government offered a free grant of £62,500, being one-half the estimated cost of the latter line, on condition that the other half of the cost should be provided by the Grand Jury; and that the Grand Jury at the next Assizes rejected by a majority of 16 to 6 the offer
532MR. T. M. HEALY
*: The fact is as stated in the first question, though I conceive that the Grand Jury in passing the resolution of 1896 had in view a free grant covering the entire cost of construction of the railway. Full warning was given before the meeting of the Grand Jury at the Spring Assizes of this year that the construction of the line from Ennis to Scarriff would not be recommended by the Irish Government to the Treasury, unless a resolution in favour of it were passed at those Assizes by a decisive majority. The grant cannot now be held over, as negotiations are in progress for otherwise disposing of the money.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland when the Government will decide as to giving the small sum required for the Ballinrobe and Lough Mask Canal out of the £500,000 already voted; and if any legal difficulty exists in the construction of last year's Act, whether it might easily be removed by non-contentious legislation. May I add that I am not responsible either for the grammar or the geography of the question?MR. T. M. HEALY
*533: The terms of the Act of last year would not admit of a grant being given in aid of this scheme, except so far as regards the proposed steamer service. The deepening of the bed of the river is more a question of drainage than a question of the establishment of communications, and I am not disposed to bring in a Bill to amend the Act of 1896, in order to enable it to be included. I am, however, in communication with the Congested Districts
533MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether he intends to introduce again this Session the Weights and Measures Bill, which was Read the First time at the end of last Session?(Kincardineshire)MR. J. W. CROMBIE (Kincardineshire)
*: Yes. Sir; my right hon. Friend proposes to introduce a Measure on the subject referred to, on the lines of the Bill of last Session.MR. HANBURY (for Mr. RITCHIE)
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether his attention has been called to a public statement made at several county meetings of the Irish National Teachers' Association in Ireland, that the pension fund is in a bankrupt condition; and whether it is now proposed to appropriate the arrears of school grant due to the teachers to remedy this state of affairs; whether he is aware that the teachers strongly object to this; and will he take steps to induce the Treasury to place a Vote in Aid on the Estimates for the current year?MR. J. P. FARRELL
*: The hon. Member is evidently not aware of the answers already given by my right hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury in this matter. The arrears of the School Grant will be appropriated to the Pension Fund, but more than this will be required to restore its solvency. The Treasury, I understand, are prepared to deal with the question, and I have no reason to believe that the teachers are dissatisfied, or have any cause to be dissatisfied with the arrangements proposed.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
534: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether he is aware that Michael Muldowney, who after repeated trials was convicted in
534(Leitrim, S.)MR. JASPER TULLY (Leitrim, S.)
*: The convict named in the Question was convicted at Sligo Summer Assizes of July 1884, of the crime of murder, and was sentenced to death, which sentence was commuted to one of penal servitude for life. He had previously been tried at the Spring Assizes of that year, when the Jury disagreed. The convict committed breaches of the prison rules in 1885 and 1888, and these are the only offences recorded aganst him since his incarceration. I know of no reason for extending to this prisoner any exceptional treatment?MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (1) if he has received during the past six months several resolutions from the elected and ex-officio Guardians of the Listowel Union, showing the great distress that prevails in the union; (2) whether an application has been made for a loan to purchase seed oats, owing to the total failure of the oats crop last year; (3) whether he is aware that the potato and other crops were seriously injured both in quantity and quality owing to the disastrous harvest of 1896; and (4) whether any steps will be taken by the Government to alleviate the great distress in existence in the Listowel Union, as was shown by the joint reports of landlords and tenants?(Kerry, N.)MR. M. J. FLAVIN (Kerry, N.)
*535: Resolutions have been received as stated in the first Question; and an application has been made by the Listowel Board of Guardians for a loan for seed oats on the ground stated in the second Question. The extremely wet weather of the Autumn of 1896 was generally unfavourable to the harvest, the oat crop being particularly affected in Listowel Union. The Returns of the numbers relieved give no indication of the existence of abnormal distress in this Union. The numbers on out-door
535MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: May I draw the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the fact that the rates have increased from £1 in 1880 to £3,000 in 1895?MR. FLAVIN
: A cooper being no longer required at Bull Point, H. Williams has been discharged. The maximum gratuity allowed in such cases under the Superannuation Act, 1887, is one week's pay for each year of service, and this has been awarded him. The terms of the Act prevent the inclusion of the value of quarters in the calculation of the gratuity.THE CIVIL LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY (Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN, Worcestershire, E.)
v: I beg to ask the Attorney General whether his attention has been directed to the case of Ecroyd v(Cumberland, Eskdale)MR. R. A. ALLISON (Cumberland, Eskdale)
: I have made inquiries into the case mentioned in the Question of the hon. Member. I find that the breaking off of the hearing of the case was exceptional, and due to the fact that Mr. Justice Romer and Mr. Justice North happened to be both engaged in trying witness actions. I am informed that no witnesses need have been in town before the 9th or after the 17th. Although such interruptions cannot at all times be avoided, I am satisfied that the learned Judges do their utmost to avoid unnecessary delay or expense, and I do not think that any steps can be taken to lessen the possibility of such inconveniences at times being occasioned.THE ATTORNEY GENERAL (Sir RICHARD WEBSTER, Isle of Wight)
: I beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the proposed new Financial Commissioners are precluded by the terms of the reference from taking, if they see fit, the view taken by the majority of the late Commission, viz., that, under the terms of the Act of Union and the Consolidation Act, 1816, the Exchequer expenditure in Ireland (except when similar expenditure is defrayed by local rates in Great Britain) cannot properly be taken as a set off to excess of revenue contributed by Ireland?(Islington, W.)MR. T. LOUGH (Islington, W.)
: I do not think the terms of reference can bind members of the Commission as to any decision to which they may come with regard to the matters submitted to them.THE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
: I beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether be can now say when the proposed inquiry into the procedure on election petitions will take place?(Islington, N.)MR. G. C. T. BARTLEY (Islington, N.)
: In answer to my hon. Friend, I have to say that I think there should be a Select Committee appointed to consider the questions to which, he refers. But the terms of reference cannot be worded as my hon. Friend seems to suggest. They ought, I think, to be strictly confined to the method of inquiry.THE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
: Is the Committee likely to be appointed this Session?MR. BARTLEY
: Yes, Sir. I think the sooner the better.THE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
*: Will the Government move?(Gloucester, Forest of Dean)SIR C. DILKE (Gloucester, Forest of Dean)
: I think it would be convenient for the Government to move.THE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
CheersOpposition laughter and Ministerial cheersLaughter546Opposition laughter and criesLaughter545544543542541540"That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by Parliament of an addition to the grant payable to School Boards under Section 97 of the Elementary Education Act 1870, by increasing the sum
540 rose to move: —
CheersOpposition laughter and Ministerial cheersLaughter546Opposition laughter and criesLaughter545544543542541540"That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by Parliament of an addition to the grant payable to School Boards under Section 97 of the Elementary Education Act 1870, by increasing the sum
540THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL (SIR JOHN GORST, Cambridge University)
CheersCheersCheers550549Ministerial cheers"the larger number of School Boards in our opinion stand in no need of relief, or, if they do, the relief is to a very large extent in the hands of those by whom the School Boards are elected."548547Cheers said it was clear from the right hon. Gentleman's statement that before they could trace the working of the proposal in its details they should have some return showing the effect of the Bill upon the different districts to be benefited. ["Hear, hear!"] While poor School Boards would welcome the Bill, and while nobody in the House—and especially the representatives of School Board districts—was likely to refuse any offer which the Government might make, he thought it would be found that the School Boards throughout the country, who did such admirable educational work for nearly half the children, would, when they came to express an opinion on the proposal, pronounce it to be exceedingly inadequate. [CheersCheersCheers550549Ministerial cheers"the larger number of School Boards in our opinion stand in no need of relief, or, if they do, the relief is to a very large extent in the hands of those by whom the School Boards are elected."548547Cheers(York, W.R., Rotherham)MR. A. H. DYKE ACLAND (York, W.R., Rotherham)
Cheers552laughterLaughter and cheersCheers and laughterCheers and laughterMinisterial cheers551Cheers and laughter, who was received with Ministerial cheers: Certainly the old proverb that there is no zeal like the zeal of the convert is happily illustrated in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. [Cheers552laughterLaughter and cheersCheers and laughterCheers and laughterMinisterial cheers551Cheers and laughterTHE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY (Mr. A. J. BALFOUR, Manchester, E.)
: As a basis.MR. ACLAND
Cheers555Opposition cheersCheers554cheersCheersCheerscries ofCheers553CheersCheersCheers: As a basis. But the right hon. Gentleman, with all his courage, cannot pretend that 5s. per head all round is required to increase the efficiency of education in London, Manchester, and Liverpool, and in the great body of the School Board districts of the country. [Cheers555Opposition cheersCheers554cheersCheersCheerscries ofCheers553CheersCheersCheersTHE FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY
*557Cheers556CheersMinisterial cries ofMinisterial cries ofCheersCheers thought the First Lord of the Treasury would have added much greater weight to his recommendation that the Committee should hurry over this stage of the Bill had he not made his speech first. ["Hear, hear!"] He had made a detailed and provocative speech, which must he replied to. [557Cheers556CheersMinisterial cries ofMinisterial cries ofCheersCheers(Wolverhampton, E.)SIR HENRY FOWLER (Wolverhampton, E.)
: No, not all.SIR J. GORST
* said Leeds and Hull were the exceptional cases, but, so far as the general ratepayers were concerned, they would get no relief. He did understand that the Voluntary Schools were to have £600,000 and the Board Schools £100,000. What was the reason for this limitation? They knew without waiting for the Budget that the revenue had increased by three millions, and he certainly thought they had a right to plead on behalf of the ratepayers. Whether that was a just contention or not, he should invite the Vice President to give them some detailed statement as to how this scheme would work out. Taking the average brain, he did not think hon. Members understood from the speech what it was the Vice President proposed. He had intended to move that evening for a return which would have given the House the information, but he learnt that the return was opposed.SIR H. FOWLER
 said he had had no notice, and he proposed to confer with the right hon. Gentleman.SIR J. GORST
*558 said he would be happy to confer with the right hon. Gentleman on matters of detail. He should like to say a few words as to the claim for relief, and, having quoted Mr. Forster's original proposal, and as amended by Mr. Gladstone, which was based upon equality of grant to both classes of schools, the right hon. Gentleman said that his case was that they should give to Voluntary Schools and Board Schools equally. They gave the Voluntary Schools £600,000, and he said the rated schools were entitled to an equal amount from the Exchequer, not only upon the principle of equality, but on the ground of justice to the urban ratepayers. It was absurd to speak of the bottomless purse of the ratepayers; there was no such purse. The ratepayers felt the burden very severely. The large towns which were now heavily rated would get no relief. Take Manchester, where the Voluntary Schools cost the
558SIR H. FOWLER
559 said that the right hon. Gentleman had not succeeded in showing that, while the relief to the rural rates went to the landlords, the relief to the urban rates did not go to the landlords. It was far more probable that the money given in relief of the urban rates would go to the landlords, because there was in towns such a thing as compounding the rates. He was quite willing that that should happen to some extent; but it was not reasonable to blame the Government for not doing this year what they were blamed for doing last year. There was a prevalent fallacy among lion. Gentlemen opposite that it was a sign of grace in a district to have a School Board. It simply showed that the inhabitants cared too little about education to support Voluntary Schools. The sacrifices made by the supporters of Voluntary Schools were far more meritorious than those
559(York, N.R., Thirsk)MR. GRANT LAWSON (York, N.R., Thirsk)
* said that the question was one of extreme complexity, and they must wait, to see the Bill before discussing its details. The Vice President had spoken of "the rate levied." The rate returned to the Education Department was not the rate levied in the ordinary sense. For instance, in one of the poor School Board districts in his constituency, the precept of the School Board was 2s. 10d., and that was the amount which would be returned in the education statistics. But the amount levied on the ratepayers by the rating authority was not 2s. 10d., but 3s. The right hon. Gentleman had explained a very elaborate sliding scale; but he had given no reason why it should stop at the particular point mentioned by the right lion. Gentleman—a rate of 2s. 5d. The Bill would give an extra £110,000 to the Board Schools. That was a very much smaller sum than had been expected, or than had been mentioned at the deputation from the representatives of the poor School Boards last year. There would be great disappointment felt on this point.(Gloucester, Forest of Dean)SIR CHARLES DILKE (Gloucester, Forest of Dean)
: Do I understand that the man is released?CAPTAIN DONELAN
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, with reference to the Poor Law Amalgamation Bill, whether it is his intention to appoint a Committee to make inquiry into the working of the existing Poor Law in Ireland; and whether he is aware of the prevailing opinion as to the necessity for classification and other reforms in connection with the present state of the Poor Law there?MR. McCARTAN
*: It is not intended to appoint a Committee to make inquiry into the working of the Poor Law system in connection with the Poor Relief Bill shortly to be introduced. It is hoped that the effect of the Bill will be to remove one of the difficulties standing in the way of classification and of other reforms.MR. GERALD BALFOUR
: I beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education whether it is the intention of the Education Department to formulate, for the guidance of school managers, any suggestions or regulations in reference to the associations to be formed under the Voluntary Schools Bill when it becomes law; whether these models for associations, if drawn up, will be distributed to Members of Parliament; and whether, in view of the numerous new duties imposed upon the Education Department by the Measure referred to, an increase in the staff of examiners and inspectors is contemplated?(Denbighshire, W.)MR. HERBERT ROBERTS (Denbighshire, W.)
536: As soon as the Bill becomes law, the Committee of Council will lay
536Cambridge University)THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL (Sir JOHN GORST, Cambridge University)
: I beg to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the interest charged on loans under the Irish Church Act 1869, in respect of "instalment mortgages," and under the Landlord and Tenant (Ireland) Acts, 1870 and 1872, and the Land Law (Ireland) Act, 1881, which was reduced by the Land Law (Ireland) Act, 1887, from 4 per cent. and 3½ per cent. respectively, to 3⅛ per cent. still remains at 3⅛ per cent.; and, if so, what has been the annual profit to the Treasury on loans under these Acts for each of the last three years for which the Returns are complete?(Waterford, W.)MR. J. J. SHEE (Waterford, W.)
* said he based his argument mainly on the case of the small, heavily burdened and rated shopkeepers, not the artisans living in 3s. a week houses.SIR H. FOWLER
*: The Voluntary Schools Bill does not deal with rates.SIR H. FOWLER
563 said the hon. and learned Member had given one of the strongest and ablest arguments for condemning the policy of the Government in separating the two Bills, because his whole argument was that these Bills should be one cohesive whole, and should interdepend upon principles which applied equally to both. The hon. and learned Gentleman spoke of the necessity of dealing equally and fairly with the Board Schools as well as with the Voluntary Schools; they assented to that, but he ventured to say this proposal was not a fair and equal settlement of this question. The sliding scale system which the Vice President had introduced was a good system, and he thought it would be recognised as a valuable idea by those practically acquainted with the details of this subject, but the proper method, he thought, would have been to give the grant of 5s. per head all round to begin with, and on the top of that to apply this sliding scale. He would give some striking instances of how this proposal would work out. Northampton would get a contribution of about £300 from the Exchequer towards her rate expenditure of £9,000; and, at the same time the Voluntary Schools of Northampton were getting under the Voluntary Schools Bill £1,004, in respect of their voluntary subscriptions of only £1,262. That was a proportion enormously in favour of Voluntary Schools. Kettering would receive about £180 towards a rate expenditure of £3,100, while under the previous Bill the Voluntary Schools would receive £37l, in respect of a contribution of £400. In another town in his division, Wellingborough, the Exchequer would contribute about £150 towards a rate expenditure of £2,700, while the Voluntary Schools would receive £252 in respect of voluntary contributions of only £230. The great city of Manchester, in respect of a rate expenditure of £75,000, would get not a single farthing in aid from the Exchequer, whereas the Voluntary Schools of Manchester would receive £11,000 under the other Bill. Salford, in respect of a rate expenditure of £22,000, would receive nothing; whereas
563(Northampton, E.)MR. F. A. CHANNING (Northampton, E.)
564 said he humbly shared with the right hon.
564(Rochester)VISCOUNT CRANBORNE (Rochester)
: The aid is not received by the school, but by the School Board.SIR JOHN GORST
Cheers.Opposition. cheers.566"the climax is readied in the country Board Schools. True, indeed, it is that a few of these ore well managed, but in by far the most there is no management at all worthy the name; there is no progress, but the reverse."565 said that there appeared to be no conditions laid down in the Bill on any School Board which was to receive the money. The Bill in fact differed from the Bill they had discussed to aid Voluntary Schools. That Bill contained many conditions, but here was a Bill to aid Board Schools, and there were no conditions of any kind laid down. In the former Bill, for example, there was a condition as to efficiency. He had no desire to drive up the standard of education in England at the present moment, but there were undoubtedly certain School Boards which would receive the aid under this Bill which were open to the charge of not being altogether efficient. He reminded his right hon. Friend of a passage cited in his speech on the Second Reading of the Bill last year from the Report of Mr. Brodie,
Cheers.Opposition. cheers.566"the climax is readied in the country Board Schools. True, indeed, it is that a few of these ore well managed, but in by far the most there is no management at all worthy the name; there is no progress, but the reverse."565VISCOUNT CRANBORNE
568 recognised in the proposal before the House an effort to meet a great want. How it would work out they could not judge until they saw the Bill, and, even then, they would need experience of its operation. But it was a grievous pity that the matter should be dealt with piecemeal. The Measure before the House was to adjust certain grievances and put certain wrongs right, but in doing this it would create other anoma-
568(Islington, N.)MR. G. C. T. BARTLEY (Islington, N.)
569 joined with the noble Lord the Member for Rochester and the hon. Member who had just spoken in regretting that our educational system was being dealt with in this piecemeal way. The time had come when the Government should set themselves to settle the matter on broader, fairer, and larger lines. Section 97 of the Education Act of 1870 had not worked with particular satisfaction, and he regretted that the Government should have based their proposal upon it instead of proposing a scheme which would have been juster and fairer. In the opinion of Members on the Opposition side of the House the amount to be given to the Board Schools was totally inadequate. Their expenditure amounted to £4,750,000 a year, and £110,000 a year was to be given to meet the strain thrown upon them. The metropolis would receive no benefit. Whatever might be the rateable value of London, the rate of l1d. on a house of £20 was a heavy burden. The whole burden and incidence of the rates should be considered. In his own constituency the rates amounted to 6s. 6d. in the
569(Tower Hamlets, Poplar)MR. SYDNEY BUXTON (Tower Hamlets, Poplar)
*570 observed that, however inadequate hon. Members opposite might think the grant, the Government by proposing it were doing what the Opposition failed to do when they had the opportunities. ["Hear, hear!"] He rose chiefly for the purpose of emphasising the importance of the question asked by the right lion. Baronet the Member for the Forest of Dean. Whether the new grant was to be estimated on the actual rate levied for School Board purposes and paid by the ratepayer, or on the rate as paid to the school authority, was a very important question. He also wished to know whether in a district where a rate of 2s. 6d. was levied, the increase in the grant would be 9s. per scholar, or whether the total grant would be 9s. per scholar. Would the new grant be in lieu of the sum now paid under Section 97, or in addition to the grant paid under that section? He understood that it was to be in addition. He recognised with pleasure that much care and skill had been exercised in drafting this scheme, which would deal with School Board districts in proportion to their necessities. Section 97 of the Act of 1897 was founded on two principles which were just, the rateable value and the number of
570(West Ham, N.)MR. ERNEST GRAY (West Ham, N.)
*572571 regretted that the lion. Member who had last spoken should have thought n necessary to overlay the rest of the matter of his speech with highly partisan remarks with regard to the action of the late Liberal Government in not giving special grants to poor School Board districts. The hon. Member had overlooked the important point that the
572571(Monmouth, N.)MR. REGINALD McKENNA (Monmouth, N.)
Primâ facie574573 said the lion. Member for West Ham had stated that the operation of this Bill would be such that districts which got little
Primâ facie574573(Islington, W.)MR. T. LOUGH (Islington, W.)
 replied to various questions put to him. He had been asked what he meant by speaking of the rate levied. He hoped he did not use that expression, because the rate was neither the rate levied nor the rate paid, but the rate specified and described in the 97th Section of the Act of 1870. That rate was subject to two conditions. First, it must be required; and that had been interpreted to mean needed for the annual expenses of School Boards; and, secondly, it must be actually paid to the School Board by the rating authority. When he spoke of the sliding scale and of the amount of assistance depending upon the amount of the rate, he ought to have explained that by that he meant not the rate levied, not the rate paid, but the rate which was needed for the annual expenses of the Board and which was actually paid by the rating authority to the treasurer of the Board.SIR J. GORST
*: So that arrears on the one side and money carried forward to balance on the other are excluded?SIR C. DILKE
575: Yes; it was merely the rate needed for the actual expenses of the year. The right hon. Baronet had asked why the scale stopped at 2s. 6d.
575SIR J. GORST
 asked whether the right hon. Gentleman would give a Return showing how the scheme would work out before the Second Reading?VISCOUNT CRANBORNE
 said he would be very glad to give any Return which could be laid before Parliament. But there were 769 School Boards in the country, and if they delayed the Second Reading until the Education Department had worked out the way in which the Bill would operate in every one of these districts, he was afraid they would have to delay the Second Reading for a very long time.SIR J. GORST
 said he had no desire to delay the Second Reading, and should be glad to see it taken as soon as possible, but ho hoped the right hon. Gentleman would lay some Papers on the Table in order that, they might, be able to see more in detail how the scheme would work out.VISCOUNT CRANBORNE
*577576 said that a short time ago he was present when a powerful deputation laid before leading Members of the Government the case of the necessitous Board Schools, and he remembered that the hon. Member for West Ham was their spokesman, and presented the case with great force and ability. He thought the Members of that deputation would be very much disappointed to read the speech he had just made, and found that he was
577576(Notts, Mansfield)MR. CARVELL WILLIAMS (Notts, Mansfield)
*578 had tried to work out how the Bill would operate in a concrte case, and had taken his constituency of Halifax, and he would slate what appeared to be the result. By the 97th Section of the present Act, if the 3d. rate did not bring in 7s. 6d. it
578(Halifax)MR. ALFRED BILLSON (Halifax)
580579 said the figures just given showed how in some respects unjustly the proposal would work; but he passed from, details to the general question involved in the Resolution. As he understood, it would not be in order for any Member to move to increase the amount hereafter,
580579(Flint Boroughs)MR. HERBERT LEWIS (Flint Boroughs)
 hoped the First Lord of the Treasury would give them some further information as to how he arrived at the 4d. scale. The position of School Boards in relation to one another was now very much more unsatisfactory than it had been for some time past, and therefore it was very necessary that everything should be made plain. He feared that there would be a strong tendency on the part of districts to lower their rateable value as much as they could in the hope that they might get the relief provided by the Bill.(York, W.R., Keighley)MR. JOHN BRIGG (York, W.R., Keighley)
583582 was surprised that the Government had not availed themselves of the opportunity of giving 5s. per head per child in average attendance at necessitous Board Schools. It was quite evident that the Government had an animus against School Boards in the matter of money. It was well known that relief was given to the Voluntary Schools because of the intolerable strain of the competition between the two sets of schools; indeed, it was admitted that it was not sufficient to give a grant to the Voluntary Schools, but that something must be done to break down the competition of the Board Schools. The Government, acting on the principle of having no sympathy with the Board Schools, to put it no higher than that,
583582(Lanark, Mid)MR. J. CALDWELL (Lanark, Mid)
585 said that the Bill proposed a novel principle. At present the assessor, whose duty it was to decide between the railway companies and the local authorities as to the rateable value of railway property, was appointed by Government; but his salary was paid by the railway companies, and now, under this Bill, he was to be given a superannuation allowance, also payable by the railway companies. These assessors had most responsible duties to discharge, and they ought to hold the balance perfectly equal. There was not much danger in the assessors receiving their salaries from the railway companies, because the amount was fixed by the Secretary for Scotland. But the superannuation allowance was a different matter. The Treasury were not concerned, and the only
585MR. CALDWELL
*laughter said the Bill was a very short and simple one. It was simply to provide for the giving of a retiring allowance, which had hitherto been impossible, to the assessor of railways and canals in Scotland, and the other officers under him. There was really nothing in the considerations which had been urged by the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. He began by contradicting himself, because his first sentence was that this was a novel departure in principle, and he went on to say what was true, that it was not a novel departure in principle—[laughterTHE LORD ADVOCATE
 said he had merely said that it was a departure from the general principle that applied to all these cases.MR. CALDWELL
*587586Ministerial cheers and Opposition cries ofOpposition cheers. said it was, however, a small matter. [587586Ministerial cheers and Opposition cries ofOpposition cheers.THE LORD ADVOCATE
 said it was obvious that the appointment was one which should not depend for salary upon one of the parties interested.(Lanarkshire, N.E.)MR. J. COLVILLE (Lanarkshire, N.E.)
*: Order, order! That is not in question upon this Bill, which is only a superannuation Bill. There is no question as to who shall pay the salary or who shall appoint.MR. SPEAKER
 merely wished to point out that in dealing with the superannuation allowance, regard should be had that appointment in this case was of such a vague nature, and that payment was not for the Crown, but for one of the parties most directly affected by the assessment.MR. COLVILLE
*588 said the Bill proposed to pay £200 per annum to the Archdeacon of Cornwall, and that sum was not to be subscribed by the Members of the Church in that diocese, but was to come out of the common fund of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, instead of coming out of the Truro Chapter endowment. The result, would be that the canonry would be better off by £200 a year, and the common fund of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would be £200 worse off than it was at present. He pointed out that one of the purposes of the common fund of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners was the augmentation of small livings, and that this sum of money might be usefully applied in that way. Inasmuch, however, as the Bill did not
588MR. CARVELL WILLIAMS
 said there were 15 or 16 Superannuation Bills at present before the House.(Flint Boroughs)MR. HERBERT LEWIS (Flint Boroughs)
 asked for some explanation of the provisions of the Bill.(Cork Co., Mid)DR. TANNER (Cork Co., Mid)
* said that a Memorandum in regard to the Bill had been already circulated. The Bill would not increase the charges on the revenues of India, but tended to the contrary result. It applied to certain officials who belonged to the old East India Company, and who were under a special Superannuation Act passed in the reign of George III., the terms of which for lengthened services were more liberal than those of the present Superannuation Act. There had been great difficulty in working the two superannuation funds, and it was thought right to try and amend the terms of the East India Company's Act. The result would be that the few gentlemen who were concerned would be able to retire at a somewhat earlier period at a less pension.THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (Lord GEORGE HAMILTON, Middlesex, Ealing)
 thought the House should deal with these matters in an economical spirit, and he therefore asked how much land was to be purchased, and at what price?DR. TANNER
*590 said the object of the Bill was to acquire only the freehold interest in
590THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (Mr. AKERS-DOUGLAS, Kent, St. Augustine's)
 asked why the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee?(Cavan, W.)MR. J. P. FARRELL (Cavan, W.)
 asked if the right hon. Gentleman would let an Irishman serve on the Committee?MR. J. P. FARRELL
 asked if the right hon. Gentleman would give an explanation of how the money was to be paid?DR. TANNER
"That it is expedient to authorise the issue, out of the Consolidated Fund, of such sums, not exceeding in the whole £500,000, as may be required for the purposes of any Act of the present Session for the acquisition of a Site for Public Offices in or near Whitehall, and for other purposes connected therewith, and to authorise the Treasury, for the purpose of providing for the issue and repayment of such sums, to borrow money by means of terminable annuities for a period not exceeding fifty years, such annuities to be paid out of moneys to be provided by Parliament for the service of the Commissioners of Works, and, if those moneys are insufficient, out of the Consolidated Fund." proposed,
"That it is expedient to authorise the issue, out of the Consolidated Fund, of such sums, not exceeding in the whole £500,000, as may be required for the purposes of any Act of the present Session for the acquisition of a Site for Public Offices in or near Whitehall, and for other purposes connected therewith, and to authorise the Treasury, for the purpose of providing for the issue and repayment of such sums, to borrow money by means of terminable annuities for a period not exceeding fifty years, such annuities to be paid out of moneys to be provided by Parliament for the service of the Commissioners of Works, and, if those moneys are insufficient, out of the Consolidated Fund."MR. AKERS-DOUGLAS
 protested against the voting of this sum of money as absolutely unnecessary. Ireland was interested in this sum, at least, to the extent of 1–11th, and he should divide the Committee against the Resolution in order to emphasise their protest. He moved to leave out "£500,000," in order to insert instead thereof "£455,000."MR. J. P. FARRELL
 said that, instead of the Committee committing itself to the grant of this money, hon. Members ought really to raise the question as to the why and wherefore of its expenditure. He wished to know what extra offices were required, what was the price to be paid for the land, and what offices were to be erected upon it?DR. TANNER
, who rose to move the Second Reading of this Bill, said that it was based on the recommendations of a Select Committee which sat three or four years ago. Before the hon. Member had proceeded further,(Preston)MR. W. E. M. TOMLINSON (Preston)
* said the hon. Member was not in order in asking that question.MR. SPEAKER
* said that Motion was not one for the nomination, but for the appointment of the Committee. The nomination would be subsequently moved.MR. SPEAKER
* said it was referred to a Select Committee, in accordance with the invariable practice of the House where private Bill powers were sought by a public Bill.MR. SPEAKER
*: Order, order! The Question is irregular.MR. SPEAKER
*: Order, order!MR. SPEAKER
*: Order, order! The Question which the hon. Gentleman is asking does not arise out of the Question on the Paper.MR. SPEAKER
*: Order, order! Notice must be given of that Question.MR. SPEAKER
*567 said that many hon. Members would disagree with the noble Lord as to his desire for finality in the expenditure on education. He did not suppose that there should be it general debate on a wide question like this, but he urged on the right hon. Gentleman the absolute necessity, before the Committee discussed the Bill in detail, of giving it the effect of the somewhat complicated system of relief on the various School Board districts. He found some difficulty in understanding what was the object of the Bill. Was the Bill for the improvement of education, or was it a Bill for the relief of the ratepayers? If it was a Bill for the improvement of education he sympathised with a good deal of what the noble Lord had said if there was to be omitted from the Bill the conditions under which the money was to be applied; but he did not gather from the speech of the right hon.
567(Shoreditch, Hoxton)MR. JAMES STUART (Shoreditch, Hoxton)
: I beg to ask the Lord Advocate what steps he intends to take to prevent the deportation of paupers from Scotland to Ireland?(Monaghan, S.)MR. JAMES DALY (Monaghan, S.)
581 had listened with great attention to the proposal of the Government, and regretted extremely that it was a bitter disappointment to Members on either side and educationalists generally. Unquestionably the hope of liberality towards necessitous Board Schools, and the sympathy expressed for them, added to the support given to the Voluntary Schools Bill. The Government had lost a golden opportunity to recover the confidence of educationalists, and their ridiculously inadequate proposal would be received with contempt throughout the country. Large School Boards, including London, would have no interest in the Bill. In the large town he had the honour to represent there were no more denominational schools than there were 25 years since. The ratepayers had spent £400,000 on education, and were now paying 1s. in the pound rates for maintenance of schools, with a capital behind them of £300,000, which would have to be paid by present and succeeding ratepayers. Why should they not be considered when relief was being given from public resources to denominational schools? They had a much stronger claim to relief than many of the districts which would be granted relief under the Voluntary Schools Bill, and for the very reason that large communities, which were mainly composed of working people, were continually increasing the educational facilities in their midst. An increase of 2,000 or 3,000 in the population every year necessitated a heavier rate upon the community. The relief afforded under the Bill just passed did not affect such a community as he represented in the slightest degree, but left it in a worse position than it was in before. He trusted the Government would reconsider the main principles of the Measure and make a grant which would afford satisfaction to the supporters of the Board Schools. The Leader of the House had referred to the allegation that relief of rates in urban districts was a grant to the landowners and property owners. There was not a vestige of truth in that allegation. In urban districts the rates fell on the tenants. In the case of a few rack-rented tenements in respect of which weekly rents were paid, the landlord
581(Portsmouth)SIR JOHN BAKER (Portsmouth)
537i.e: I beg to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether he is aware that H. Williams, the cooper at Bull Point, Devonport, has been given notice of discharge on account of the work being reduced; whether, if this be the case, the conditions under which he was appointed after probation, 537i.e(Devon, Tavistock)MR. H. C. F. LUTTRELL (Devon, Tavistock)
562561 said the other Education Bill dealt most distinctly with rates in this sense, that if they destroyed the Voluntary Schools they would place a greater burden on the rates of the country. In laying down a proper test, they had to consider not only the amount of I the rate at so much per pound, but the resources and economic conditions of the area within which the particular rate was levied. That was the scheme of the Vice President's proposal; that was the real
562561MR. CRIPPS
 said his contention remained the same. If one took the poorest classes in the large towns, the criticism the right hon. Gentleman applied, as regarded the burden of rates, did not attach to them at all, because in that case the rates were not paid by them, but by the owners of coupound tenements. Everyone, of course, sympathised with the poor shopkeeper, and every class of ratepayer where the burden was heavy, but they forgot to draw the distinction. He might take out of the right hon. Gentleman's Bill any effect of this Bill, or of the other Bill, on the poorest class of ratepayers, or the class of ratepayers who would be the poorest if the incidence of the burden fell upon them at all, namely, the artisans and workpeople in our large industrial cities.MR. CRIPPS
560 wished to make a few remarks on the argument addressed to the Committee by the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton. Following through the argument of the right hon. Gentleman, he claimed him as an advocate on all future occasions for doing all he could to relieve the burden of rates in this country, whether in agricultural or urban
560(Gloucestershire, Stroud)MR. C. A. CRIPPS (Gloucestershire, Stroud)
529: As I explained in answer
529THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Sir MICHAEL HICKS BEACH, Bristol, W.)
: The interest charged on all the classes of loans referred to in the Question remains at the rate of 3⅛ per cent. per annum. Repayments in respect of loans under the Irish Church Act 1869 are carried to the Irish Church Fund, and no question of profit or loss arises regarding them. Repayments in respect of loans under the Acts of 1870, 1872, and 1881 referred to are carried to the Local Loans Fund. The total amount of interest received by that fund from all classes of public loans barely suffices to meet the interest of Local Loans Stock, together with the charges which the fund has to bear; and, it is certain that the fund makes no profit, but more probably a loss, from the classes on which 3⅛ per cent., the lowest rate of interest, is charged.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER
 said it had been found necessary to provide larger accommodation for the Patent Office, and this Bill was to enable the land to be taken under the ordinary law in the ordinary way.Bristol, W.)THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Sir MICHAEL HICKS BEACH, Bristol, W.)
: None of the States who are parties to the North Sea Fisheries Convention have withdrawn or given notice of withdrawal from the Convention.Lancashire, Southport)THE UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. G. CURZON, Lancashire, Southport)
: Diplomatic relations with Venezuela, have not yet been renewed. Her Majesty's Government are ready to give the most friendly consideration to any proposal for their renewal that may be received from the Government of Venezuela, by whom they were broken off in 1887.MR. CURZON
*: The meaning, I think, is that many others of the Great Powers interested are great naval Powers, with obvious interests in the Mediterranean. Of course, Germany does not fall under that description.MR. CURZON
: We have no knowledge of any such action on the part of any of the Great Powers, nor have we ever heard of any direct negotiations between the Turkish and Greek Governments.MR. CURZON
"it is well known that it was through the energetic measures taken by me, in obedience to the orders of His Majesty the King, that the besieged were enabled to proceed safe and sound to Canea."The Daily Telegraph516: In reply to our inquiry, Her Majesty's Consul has telegraphed from Candia that he left Canea on the 25th ultimo, and has no knowledge of Candamos Mussulmans having been rearmed after their disarmament had been faithfully carried out as promised by the naval Captains and himself. He adds that the Acting Governor General had many times stated to him that he had no
"it is well known that it was through the energetic measures taken by me, in obedience to the orders of His Majesty the King, that the besieged were enabled to proceed safe and sound to Canea."The Daily Telegraph516MR. CURZON
*: All the Powers, with the exception of Germany, have throughout been represented by military contingents in Crete, and all without exception by naval forces. We have received no official explanation of the grounds on which the German Government have refrained from sending any military contingent to Crete. Their participation, both in the views and in the action of the European Concert, has been testified by the dispatch of a ship of war, but we understand that as regards the more local question of the pacification of the island, they are satisfied that it should be taken in hand by the Powers who are more nearly interested, the distance and geographical position of Germany being an obstacle to her participation in the same degree and with the same promptitude as other Powers.MR. CURZON
*: We have no information of the reported capture referred to in the first paragraph of the Question. In reply to the second paragraph, the rules were drawn up by the Admirals, and the method of application is left to them. I am unable, therefore, to give a precise answer to the Question, but presumably the action of the Admirals would lie guided by the consideration whether the provisions were or were not intended for the Greek troops or insurgent Cretans.MR. CURZON
*: The deficiency in Militia officers is 641. The answer to the second question is in the affirmative. As regards the third question, the question will be considered.MR. BRODRICK
*: The General Officer Commanding at Aldershot reports that Private Grindle appeared on parade with a shamrock in his cap, and was twice ordered to remove it by Second Lieutenant Blundell. This he refused to do, and was then made a prisoner. The Officer Commanding awarded him 168 hours' imprisonment for direct disobedience of an order given by an officer on parade, not for wearing the shamrock, and this he explained to Private Grindle at the time. Any soldier must obey any order given by an officer, but the General Officer Commanding considers that Second Lieutenant Blundell should not have given the order for the removal of the shamrock without referring the question to his Officer Commanding, and has ordered the entry in Private Grindle's defaulter sheet to be expunged.MR. BRODRICK
*: There is no question of compensation. ["Hear, hear!"] Private Grindle committed two errors. In the first place, he did not ask for leave to wear the shamrock, when authority would have been granted; and, in the second place, disobeyed an order given twice on parade. On the other hand, the General Officer Commanding, looking at all the circumstances, has ordered the record to be expunged from the order sheet, so that it will not stand against him in his future service.MR. BRODRICK
*523: The urgent demands in other directions have rendered it impracticable as yet to issue 16-pounders to the Volunteer Batteries of position in
523MR. BRODRICK
*: The peace establishment of horses for the cavalry at home is fully maintaned. The assumption that about only one-half of them are fit for active service is inaccurate. No further steps are contemplated.MR. BRODRICK
*522: Men enlisted for three years' service with the colours, if they do not extend their services, receive a gratuity, but are not entitled to deferred pay. If they return to the colours, the whole of their time from
522MR. BRODRICK
*: His imprisonment is over.MR. BRODRICK
*: Recruits for the West India Regiment are raised wherever the best soldiers of African blood are obtainable. At present the supply of Hausa tribesmen has not been equal to the demand for them as local police.MR. BRODRICK
*509: There is a small increase in the invaliding of men under two years' service. It is probably attributable to the increased attention paid to physical training, by which men who are unable to bear the strain are more rapidly and surely found out. The diminution in the numbers of Militiamen who have joined the Regular Forces may to some little extent be due to the reduction in the rate of bounty payable on
509MR. BRODRICK
: In the seven years ending 1896 the numbers of pensioners discharged from Chelsea Hospital at their own request were respectively 9, 17, 13, 13, 12, 24, 18, giving a yearly average of 15. The total number of in-pensioners is 547.MR. BRODRICK
: The actual troops to be quartered at Canterbury must depend to some extent on the buildings available, as to which an estimate is now being made. Some cost will be involved in the necessary new buildings, but I cannot at present state the precise figure to be expended.MR. BRODRICK
: Yes, Sir. The allowance of small arm ammunition for Engineer Volunteers has recently been reduced to the amount considered adequate by the military authorities. The musketry requirements for efficiency of Engineer Volunteers are so moderate that they are not susceptible of reduction. Volunteers will continue to be allowed to purchase ammunition at the lowest possible cost.THE UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WAR (Mr. BRODRICK, Surrey, Guild-ford)
: On behalf of the hon. Member for Dublin, St. Patrick (Mr. W. FIELD), I beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether the Government will consider the necessity of introducing a Measure similar to the sections of the Canada Criminal Code, which came into operation in March 1893, prohibiting gambling in prices?(Kilkenny)MR. PATRICK O'BRIEN (Kilkenny)
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, if he is aware that there is at present a considerable number of Auxiliary Sorting Clerks in the Limerick Post Office who have been in the employment of the Department for a period extending over six years, but who have received very small remuneration; and whether the Department will, in view of the fact that the duties performed by the officials mentioned are essentially necessary to the efficient working of the Limerick Sorting Branch, place those deserving auxiliaries on the established list?MR. PATRICK O'BRIEN
: I beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, as representing the Postmaster General, whether he can inform the House if any arrangement has yet been come to with the Great Southern and Western Railway Company to carry out the proposal for the acceleration of the mails to the southern districts of Roscrea, Nenagh, and Birr; and if he is aware that the Traffic Manager of the Company has intimated that the directors are prepared to entertain any reasonable proposal from the Post Office towards that object?(Tipperary, N.)MR. PATRICK J. O'BRIEN (Tipperary, N.)
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that the men of one regiment in the service wear roses on St. George's Day?MR. PATRICK O'BRIEN
Laughter: If you will allow me, Sir, I will develop it. [LaughterMR. PATRICK O'BRIEN
*: I think the hon. Member should be aware, from previous answers, that negotiations tire in progress with a view to determining the future treatment of this Question. In my administrative capacity I have no power to alter or to go beyond the existing law.THE LORD ADVOCATE
*: It is not possible to make any alteration in the law regarding School Board elections which would affect the election now in progress, but the subject will receive consideration before the next triennial election.Buteshire)THE LORD ADVOCATE (Mr. GRAHAM MURRAY, Buteshire)
: I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War whether his attention has been dawn, to the fact, as shown in the Annual Report of Recruiting, that although the number of men under two years' service in the Army was less last year than in any of the previous four years, yet the number of men under that length of service who were discharged as invalids was greater than in any of those years; and whether he can explain the reason for this increase of invalid recruits; and, with reference to the same Report, whether he can state the reason why the numbers of Militiamen who joined the Regular forces have constantly diminished during the last five years; and whether the question of the reduction of the bounty given on completion of preliminary drill hag been considered in connection with this decrease?(Bath)COLONEL WYNDHAM MURRAY (Bath)
