 said, he was happy to concur with any motion that was made for the benefit of those who served in the navy, or the near relations of those who fell in battle; but he must inform the house, that the present motion was unnecessary; as the commissioners were framing regulations for the conduct of the Naval Asylum. Two years ago an account of the state of the Naval Asylum was laid before the house, and the hon. admiral now only came forward with a pompous parade of his complaints, though he never said any thing on the subject while he was himself one of the lords of the admiralty. The institution was established originally by voluntary subscription; and when it was taken under the protection of his majesty, and the duke of Cumberland was appointed president, it was then agreed to retain Dr. Clarke, who first suggested the idea of the institution, and two commissioners, at the request of the original subscribers. He declared that he was not personally acquainted with any of the parties, nor did he recommend a single person to any office, and for these reasons he moved the previous question.Mr. Rose
l. entered into a vindication of the character and conduct, and appointment of Dr. Clarke, who, he said, was a gentleman of high respectability and accomplished manners; and such a man only was fit for the situation he filled, and the official intercourse he had to maintain. His employment, however, was not such as could be easily filled, as the hon. admiral stated. He had not only the disbursements of the charity to audit, but the accounts of the officers in every department. He had to prepare the estimates, to manage the contracts, and to examine the accounts of all the builders and other tradesmen employed. Besides, to his superintending care of this institution in its infancy, was its present existence owing; and his continuance in the situation which he held from the beginning, was at the special and stipulated recommendation of the private subscribers, who had contributed 40,000l.Mr. Lockhart
 observed, that at the commencement of the institution, it was made a point by the founders that Dr. Clarke should be placed in his present office; and it would be a little hard if he who was himself one of the first founders of this establishment should be himself precluded from all its advantages. An hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread) thought a great point was gained for him by the motion for the residence of spiritual persons in Ireland, since he had found out that Dr. Clarke possessed livings to a great amount. This very bill should set the hon. gent, at ease, for by it Dr. Clarke would be reduced to the dilemma of either relinquishing his valuable livings, or of relinquishing the situation of auditor of the Naval Asylum.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 proposed the usual annual giants. He stated, that he would postpone any of them on reason assigned.Mr. Foster
l. hoped he would postpone the whole, as the papers were not yet printed. He objected particularly to the grant of 1,200l.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 agreed with the right hon. member as to the irregularity of the distribution, and promised to attend to that subject; but this was merely for 250 copies for the use of the public offices. He saw no reason for postponing the whole of the propositions.—The grant was then agreed to.—On the proposition for grants to various clerks in public offices,Mr. Foster
 observed, that no statement had been made respecting their necessity. He thought that some explanation ought to have been given as to the insufficiency of the salaries of these officers, before these sums were voted by parliament.Mr. Biddulph
 said that these grants had been always made ever since he had been in parliament.Mr. Foster
 also stated, that the sums had been always allowed by the Irish parliament, and that the officers looked to them as part of their emoluments.Colonel Barry
 would not oppose them now, though he was not quite satisfied with the answer, and would inquire further into the subject.Mr. Biddulph
 observed, that the hon. gent, might find in the journals what these officers had done for the grants.Mr. Foster
 said that the question was, whether their regular salaries were not a compensation for their trouble? If they were not, he thought that an addition to their salaries would be a better mode of rewarding them than these annual votes.— The grants were then agreed to.Mr. Tierney
9l. wished that the grant of 23,1039l.Mr. Parnell
 hoped the hon. gent, did not wish to prevent this charitable institution from receiving the necessary supplies for the present year, because he objected to the principles on which it was founded. These might afterward undergo alterations, but the present grants were absolutely necessary.Mr. Foster
 thought the matter might be compromised by granting a small supply for the present, and afterwards, when a larger supply came to be voted in another committee, the subject might be thoroughly investigated.Mr. Tierney
 said, he did not fee] at all surprised to perceive the hon. gentlemen opposite anxious to oppose the prosperity of the Protestant establishment. This establishment was solely for deserted and helpless children, who were, in consequence of their forlorn condition, received into these schools, and educated in the Protestant religion. During the vice-royalty of the duke of Bedford, these schools had been subjected to the examination of a committee, by no means overstocked with Protestant zeal. Their report was highly favourable to the institution. The grant had been uniformly made, for 50 or 70 years back, without any objection. The catechism in use, he believed, was the usual Protestant catechism, set forth in the Rubric, and was calculated to correct the political errors of the Roman Catholics, which were founded on their monstrous religious tenets.Dr. Duigenan
10 said, the catechism was very different from that in common use. The first question in this catechism, he stated, was, 'What religion are you of?' To which the child was taught to reply, 'I am, thank God! a Protestant.' Such opinions were merely calculated to revive all those latent sparks of animosity, which, but for the culpable industry of some, might have long since been extinguished. The whole system of education in those schools, he maintained, was destructive to the peace and tranquillity of that people, who had been too long and too lately reminded of those mischievous and unfounded assertions, those envenomed calumnies, and antiquated stories, which had hitherto been employed most effectually as the means of exciting those against each other, whose natural benevolence of dis-
10Mr. Parnell
 thought the opposition of the hon. member, even supposing he had the document to which he wished to refer the house now in his hand, perfectly irregular, since there could be no motion made in the committee for the reformation of the general establishment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 maintained, that the antiquity of these establishments and grants were alone but sorry reasons for their continuance. Many others, which had commenced nearly about the same time with these, loudly called for abolition. It was not the character of the lower order of Irish to neglect their children, nor were the Catholics of Ireland the most prone to commit this unnatural crime; they had at least the feelings and humanity of men, if they had not their political advantages. He maintained, that the children educated in these schools were not proper objects of charity. Their education and temporary support were too often made the means of purchasing them perhaps by the inadvertence of their parents, from the religion of their forefathers. Hence whatever pains might be taken, there was not above one-fifth of those who received their education in these schools, who were added to the number of the established church. It was, then, a great delusion held out to parliament to suppose the supplies yearly granted for this purpose were in any degree proportioned to the advantages the country received. In most Catholic and remote parts of Ireland, those schools had been much on the decline, while they had proportionally increased within the vicinity of Dublin.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
11 rose to justify the character of the board appointed under the government of the duke of Bedford. By enumerating some of the persons who composed that board, he thought he could justify them from any intentions hostile to the established religion. These were the primate of Ireland, the provost of Trinity
11Mr. Elliot
 said, the evils of Ireland were of a particular description, and arose from the prejudices of the lower order, and the mischievous principles disseminated by misguided and depraved characters of the higher order. The publications of the day were fraught with the venom of party; and a late pamphlet published in Dublin by an association of priests, to the amount of 110, had set forth a detail of all the flagitious and criminal misrepresentations of the conduct of England to Ireland. When such extravagancies were committed without reprehension, he was almost surprised to hear there existed in Ireland an Attorney-General.Dr. Duigenan
 thought these works, if they did exist, had been published by way of reprisals; many of a Very inflammatory nature having been published on the opposite side of the question, by the friends of the learned doctor. He had still, however, to congratulate the country, from the disposition betrayed by the learned doctor, that he did not fill the situation of Attorney-General for Ireland.—This Supply was also granted.Mr. Parnell
l. thought the arrangements for the service of the present year might and ought to be made without any additional taxes. He recommended the creation of a contingent fund by the sale of Crown-Lands, to which the public might become tenants. The sums for which Crown rents might be sold were almost inconceivable. One hundred pounds had been demanded of him for a rent of 8s. 9d. Such parts as might be sold to advantage might be disposed of, and the sum of 600,000l.Mr. Biddulph
 maintained, that in conniving, as the hon. gent. termed it, with his colleague in another house, he had only been actuated by a wish, that the house of lords should not completely defeat a bill which had been approved of by that, house. He saw no chance of its passing the house of lords without the amendment which had been proposed. If there was any thing improper, to the ideas of the hon. member, in the suggestion of that amendment to his colleague, he could only say, that he was not aware of any such feeling.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 at War opposed the bill, as not likely to produce any good effect whatever. It had been held up as the corner-stone of a system of reform which he was much afraid could never be realized; and it was a duty which the house peculiarly owed to themselves, by way of supporting their own honour and dignity, not to hold out hopes which must inevitably be disappointed. He had no doubt but the Committee of Finance had great merit, not only in the diligence of their researches, but in the acuteness with which they were desirous of entering upon the investigation of the public expenditure; yet he was of opinion, that no false hopes or expectations should be held out to the people at the present moment.The Secretary
22 alluded to the expressions of Mr. Fuller, who appeared to suppose that in his characteristic coarseness he monopolised in his own breast the whole political honesty of that house. With respect to the bill, it was the peculiar province and duty of parliament to regulate and watch over the distribution of the public money; to sec that it was not lavishly expended; and to be frequent in the exercise of those functions, which as the representatives of the people, were vested in them by the constitution. At this most important crisis, any thing which related to public economy was not unimportant. It became the legislature to institute inquiry, to stop abuses, and to prevent, as much as lay in their power, prodigality. For these reasons, he, as one delegated by the people, could not approve of the middle course which the house were now pursuing in adopting this bill—a bill which savoured more of prudence than of spirit. The
22Mr. Lyttleton
 made some observations, in a good-humoured tone, by way of reply to the last speaker; in which he observed, that the hon. gent, was undoubtedly possessed of every quality which was either agreeable, convincing, or persuasive. (A laugh.)Mr. Lyttleton
 thought it better that the bill should be read a third time, and then such modifications as might be deemed necessary could be proposed.—[The bill was accordingly read a third time.]—The noble lord then proposed certain amendments, with the view of reconciling the bill to what was originally in the contemplation of the house. He should deplore any difference of opinion between that house and the house of lords; but they surely did not ask too much of their lordships in requesting that they would suspend their opinion for a season, and grant to the commons a sort of armistice, till the grounds on which they differed were explained. They were not to go to their lordships as sturdy beggars, who, if they could not get their petition granted in one shape were ready to accept of it in another. What he proposed was, that the word prohibit' should be restored in the preamble of the bill, instead of the word 'suspended,' and that the words 'with the view to inquiries now pending in the house of commons,' also in the preamble, be omitted. The only other amendment he should propose was one limiting the endurance of the bill to six weeks after the commencement of the next session of parliament, which, being more in unison with the former proceedings of that house, would be conceding less on their part, and would be desiring less on the part of the lords. He concluded by moving one of his amendments.Lord Porchester
 thought the country would find themselves disappointed in the public advantages expected to be derived from the measure, which would not take off a single burthen.Mr. Robinson
292827***26 combated the arguments of the learned gentleman (Mr. Stephens), who having rebuked others for the temper shewn by them in this debate, had himself exhibited more of what was peculiarly denominated temper, than he had often witnessed in that house. Indeed, the whole speech of the learned gentleman seemed to have proceeded from it, consisting chiefly of reflections cast upon persons no longer in office, and its whole scope and tendency seemed to have that in view, rather than the question, or any of those important considerations na-
292827***26Sir Francis Burdett
 observed to the hon. gent, that lie must see the inconvenience resulting from allusions to former debates.The Speaker
25 observed, that a noble lord had said that he did not wish to go like a beggar, with a club and crutch to the house of lords. Now, it was his wish, that having before gone with a club to that house, that noble lord, or any other member of that house, should not now be sent up there limping upon crutches, and begging alms of them in the name of that house. It was his wish that they should continue to express their sentiments, not captiously, or in a vexatious manner, but boldly, manfully, and constitutionally, as they were warranted in supporting the consistency of that house; that they should go hand in hand with the wishes of the country; and if this mode of proceeding should be found to fail, that an humble Address should be presented to the throne, where they would be sure of obtaining success; where no dark intrigue or unconstitutional influence could intervene. Where places were useful, they ought to be granted in possession only, because then the possessor and his capacity were known; whereas, if a useful place was granted in reversion, an idiot might rise from his cradle to inherit the office, or the places might revert, as was lately mentioned by a worthy baronet (sir J. Newport) from the son to the father, and the reversion be delayed so long that the father would be incapacitated by age to perform the duties of the office. Gentlemen could hardly mean to urge that useful places ought to be kept in reserve, in order that they might be filled by fools or dotards. On the other hand, where the place was unnecessary, no patriotic man, no man in his senses, in fact, would
25Mr. Tierney
 should be always ready to bring forward the present measure when he saw any chance of succeeding in it; but he did not pledge himself to agitate it at all times, whether success was to be looked for or not. He should prefer the bill as it stood to an address to his majesty, as he should conceive the concurrence of the other house in the present hill went to pledge them to the principle of the measure. He was satisfied with having the practice suspended in the mean time, and hoped the period was not far distant, when he should be able to do a great deal more.Mr. Bankes
 spoke in favour of the bill.—If, would reflect honour on the hon. gent. who brought it in; and, if passed by the other house, would also add honour on the administration under whose auspices it was carried.Mr. Willoughby
21l. thought the house was not in a situation to give an opinion of what gentlemen on the other side would be at; at one time they were satisfied with the bill, now they were dissatisfied. It was impossible to understand their meaning. They had talked a great deal about places in reversion, and of the necessity of shutting the book. Why had not the minister of the day, to whom those gentlemen were attached, who received 24,00021l.Mr. Fuller
 proceeded. He thought there never was a time so ill calculated to bring forward such a subject. When the country had a minister who set himself forward as an honest man, which he certainly was, he could not help considering an opposition of this kind as the most unprincipled that ever existed. They only wished to set themselves up in the places of the present administration. (Much laughter from the opposition side of the house.) 'As for you,' said the hon. gent., 'I have known you these thirty years.'Mr. Fuller
23 here arose again, and exclaimed, that the words imputed to him by the hon. gent, had not been spoken. He had never said he possessed all the hones-
23Mr. Fuller
20 expressed himself decidedly hostile to the present bill, because it did not, in his mind, tend to
20Mr. M. A. Taylor
 should not have been provoked to say a word at so late an hour, by any thing but the extraordinary position which he had just heard from his right hon. friend. What! all corruption in the state was to be found only at the root! The people were the root, and from the people, then, sprung up all corruption! He must beg his right hon. friend to recollect that he had successively represented such a variety of places; whether the county of Norfolk, the city of Norwich, St. Mawe's, or Higham Ferrers, that even a memory like his, and such a known acquaintance with the constitution of parliament, could not well enable him to say of what place he was really the representative. His light hon. friend had chiefly insisted, that the root of corruption was to be traced only to the people. He would contend the very contrary. It was government that was the seducer; the people the seduced. The present question would put it to the test; and if his right hon. friend's principles were to be adhered to, it would only prove, that the drippings of the top of the tree were often the real cause of the branches of the branches, and the corruption of the root. Where root, branches, &c. all were undermined, could any fair fruit be after expected to blossom from such a ground?Mr. Sheridan
 said, that he had never heard of a transaction, that could with greater justice be termed a job, than the appointment of Dr. Clarke; but could not agree with his hon. friend on the floor in his expression of surprize, that the reverend doctor should himself prove to be one of the non-residents he had been so active in detecting; as it appeared to him to be nothing more than an illustration of the truth of the homely proverb, "set a thief to catch a thief."Mr. Biddulph
 opposed the amendment of the noble lord in toto. It had by no means been yet proved that the practice of granting offices in reversion was injurious to the country, and it appeared to him to be at least a very questionable assertion to contend that it was so.—He maintained that the language lately used in parliament was calculated to intimidate and dispirit the people from bearing up against the storms with which we were now threatened. Nay, it was calculated to exasperate them against ministers and their sovereign. These were times of uncommon difficulty and danger, and therefore the king's prerogative ought to be strengthened, instead of being curtailed; that his majesty might meet the common danger with increased energy. These were not times in which to harass ministers with frivolous and nugatory debates.Mr. Stephens
l.19 said, that it had been the inclination of his mind to have opposed the third reading of this Bill, in order that the house might take another course,
l.19Mr. Whitbread
6 said, if the right hon. gent, had imputed to his hon. friend the charge of having brought forward the present motion with that simplicity, manliness, and good sense which distinguished all his efforts in that house, it would have been a charge more likely to be credited than that of parade and ostentation. As to the motion itself, he could see no one ground for rejecting it. He thought it very strange, that a person who had been so active in informing against non-residents, should himself have been all the
6Mr. Whitbread
 said he would support the present bill, rather than run the chance of losing it entirely. He observed, with much irony, upon the polite, urbane, and gentlemanly conduct of the hon. member who had that night been so often declared out or order by the chair.Mr. W. Smith
 did not think that the measure of abolishing Reversions would he so productive of advantage to the people as some of its warmest advocates seemed to suppose. The assertion of the hon. baronet, that it would be the commencement of reform, was to him no recommendation of it, knowing, as he did, the dreadful dangers which might ensue from misguided attempts at reformation, of which we had had sufficient examples in a neighbouring country. As to the corruption that was so generally asserted to exist among the higher orders, he contended that that corruption existed in an equal degree to the lower, and that the tree struck its roots as deep into the earth as it elevated its branches into the air.Mr. Windham,
7 supported the motion. He said, an hon. member had given a very comical reason for the appointment of doctor Clarke, viz. that he had good will to the navy. Why, upon the same ground every man should become an auditor, for every one bore good will as well as the good doctor; it was said, however, that the doctor was concerned
7Mr. Windham
 said a few words in reply, in which he stated the case of a purser who had served a long time in the navy, and who certainly was full as competent to fill the situation of auditor as a doctor of divinity.—The house then divided, For the Resolution, 46; Against it, 71. Majority, 25.Sir Charles Pole
5l.l.l.l.;4l.l. rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move a certain Resolution relative to the above institution, somewhat similar to that which he had lately proposed as to Greenwich Hospital. He knew it would be objected to what he was about to propose, that this charitable institution had been originally supported by private voluntary donations, but it appeared to him to be now under the immediate management of government, the more especially as parliament had been called on to vote considerable sums of money for its support. No doubt the private donations from other individuals were very important, but still there appeared no reason for separating its mode of management from that of Greenwich Hospital, as described in the Charter. Here the hon. baronet gave a statement of the most important public and private contributions to this Asylum. He observed, that a very large portion of that called "private contribution" was given from the Patriotic Fund, which was avowedly for the purpose of relieving the distresses of the relations of those who fell in the naval battles of their country. Surely, then, the offices of this charitable and naval institution could not be better bestowed than upon those who had survived these battles, but unfortunately were disabled. The sum subscribed by the Patriotic Fund amounted to 40,0005l.l.l.l.;4l.l.Sir Charles Pole
33 desired
33The Chancellor of the Exchequer
34 felt no objection to receiving the Petition, if that could be done without departing from the constant practice of parliament. From the bulk of the petition, it appeared that there was a great mass of names annexed to it, and amongst the number, there must be many who had actually signed it, and whose names might be retained. But, if the signatures which had not really been written by the parties could not be detached, he should be rather inclined to receive the Petition even as it was. If any doubt existed as to the practice of the house, he should certainly prefer receiving the Petition, at the same time protesting against this case being drawn into
34The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 (knight of Kerry) felt much difficulty upon the present occasion, bowing, as he did, to the authority of the Chair. He was convinced that more inconvenience would result from sending the petition back to be regularly signed, than from receiving the petition in its present form. Having taken some pains to ascertain the real state of the case respecting the signatures to this petition, he could assure the house that they were 17,000 in number, and that several thousands of these were original signatures. Many of the other signatures had been added on the authority of petitions upon the same subject from different counties in Ireland, which were actually subscribed by the persons whose names appeared to them. When the petition was subscribed by several thousands of original signatures, it became a serious question, if the object of it was to be defeated by an error in point of form. If sent back, it would be easy to obtain millions of subscribers, but he begged the house to consider what might be the effect of referring this petition back to these millions. He put it to his majesty's ministers whether they would risk, by rendering such a course necessary, the disturbance of that harmony, which they were all so anxious to preserve. The signatures had been procured from all parts of Ireland, and included the most respectable amongst the Roman Catholics, because it had been objected against former petitions that they did not express the sentiments of the whole body. But if the house should send it back, he was sure that the signatures would be procured, in a temperate manner. There would be other petitions presented from different parts of the country, and, as he understood, one from a Northern county, with upwards of 30,000 signatures.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
36 adverted shortly to the Manchester Petition for Peace, which was said to have contained 47,000 signatures, and stated, that he had since been informed that there had been no more than 1600 original signatures to that petition, and that many of the names annexed to it were those of men long dead. He was glad the law of parliament had been now laid down, because, though it was the first right of the subject to bring his complaint before that house, much inconvenience would arise if the practice of annexing the names
36Sir Robert Peele
 did not wish to reject the Petition; on the contrary, he was desirous that it should be withdrawn, in order to its being presented in a more regular form. It. would be a painful duty, but if pressed in the present form, he must vote for its rejection. He was anxious that the Petition should be received, and as numbers could not add weight to the importance of the subject, the right hon. gent. by withdrawing the Petition, and presenting it to-morrow with any number of original signatures, would attain the end he desired. As Petitions were to be presented from the different counties of Ireland, the house would have the names authenticated annexed to these particular petitions. He had been informed of the circumstance respecting the Manchester Petition. One of the members for Cork had also presented a Petition, purporting to be from the merchants of that city, and in a few days after had informed him, that by letters received from that city, it appeared, that the great body of the merchants knew nothing of the matter till they saw it stated in the newspapers. He mentioned these cases, to show how loose the practice was becoming with respect to petitions, and how necessary it was to adhere to the regular practice.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 felt great anxiety on the subject of this petition. The petition did not derive weight from the numbers subscribed, but from its matter. But, if the signatures were so intermixed as not to be separated, he thought that it should be received in its present state making a special entry upon the journals, that it should not be drawn into a precedent.Mr. Yorke
 was desirous that some way might be found out for avoiding the present difficulty, but did not think that any thing with respect to these forms should be granted as a present indulgence, which might be a future embarrassment. He thought it impossible but that in such a mass of names the right hon. gentleman would find many which he could attest, and as numbers made no difference in the importance of this question, the petition might be presented with these signatures only.Mr. Secretary Canning
 severally explained; after which, Mr. Grattan proposed, with the leave of the house, to withdraw the Petition, with a view to procure original signatures, in which case he should not be able to present it before the recess. He should, however, present it by the 16th of May, on which day, he should move for the appointment of a Committee upon it.—After a few words from Messrs. Whitbread and William Smith, recommending the adoption of the line pointed out by Mr. Yorke, to receive the Petition and make a special entry, the Petition was withdrawn.Mr. Windham and Mr. Secretary Canning
48l.4746454443424140 said, he had not long since had occasion to call the attention of the house to the general consideration of our military establishment; but, at the same time, the house would allow, with reason, that the first consideration was due to our regular army, rather than to those descriptions of force which were secondary and collateral to it. It was the duty of government, however, to attend to all parts of the military system, and to provide effectually for the maintenance and discipline, not only of those descriptions of force that always had arms in their hands, but also of those that were armed only provisionally for the purpose of training and discipline, with a view to eventual emergency. Having proposed that first which was of most importance, he was happy to congratulate the house, that by the success that had attended the measures which it had been his good fortune to propose to the house last year, no legislative care was any longer necessary for the establishment of a regular army. The zeal with which the act passed on his suggestion had been carried into effect, having added 40,000 men to our regular establishment, that most important branch of our military system might be safely left to the protection of the ordinary recruiting. The regular army and militia being in this perfect state, we might now proceed to the arrangement of those other parts of our establishment which were neither less important, nor less difficult to be properly regulated. Having taken the measures last year, which operated so beneficially for the regular army, he thought the country might rest with safety upon those measures, till more precise information as to the number and discipline of the volunteers under arms should furnish to the
48l.4746454443424140Lord Castlereagh
49 expressed his approbation of the principal features of the plan which the noble lord had just submitted to the house. For himself, he had long been impressed with the necessity of placing the country in that state of military habits which would enable us to look without fear on any danger with which it might be threatened. The plan of a local and permanent militia, he considered as peculiarly suited to the genius of our constitution, and the manners of the people. In the present convulsed and disorganised state of Europe, no one could foresee what might happen. If ever there was a time when the country had occasion for a full array of the whole of its military population it was the present. He hoped at last we were come to the time when the house would lay down some solid, well-digested, and permanent plan of internal defence, and that they should hear no more of annual motions on this important subject. The plan of the noble lord he understood to be composed, first of the regular army, maintained at its present establishment; next, of a numerous local militia; and lastly, of an intermediate force, the whole of which should be perfectly adequate to the defence of G. Britain and Ireland,
49Mr. Yorke
l. after narrating the proceedings of both houses, relative to the former bills on this subject, stated, that as the house seemed to be of opinion generally, that the condition of the Curates of this country was such as required amelioration, he should now move for leave to bring in a Bill for that purpose. He should propose that, in most cases, those gentlemen should have a salary equal to one-fifth of that of the beneficed clergyman; but that, in no case, it should exceed 250l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
55 reprobated in strong terms the principle and real object of this bill, the most unconstitutional that was ever submitted to the consideration of parliament. He was astonished that the right hon. mover should think of persevering in such a measure, after being thrice defeated in his attempt at carrying it into a law. It was not with the amelioration which it proposed in the condition of the subordinate clergy, nor with the alledged purpose of enforcing the residence of clergymen in their respective parishes, that he
55Lord Porchester
 in explanation, denied that he had abandoned the right hon. gent.'s training system. All he wished was, not to carry it to greater lengths than what was necessary. With respect to the recruiting officers from the army alluded to by the right hon. gent. they were 400 in number when he came into office, and were rapidly increasing. A Serjeant was attached to each, so that the expence to the country was considerable. It had, therefore, been determined by his majesty's government, that those among them who had not evinced any exertion, should be dismissed. The volunteer Serjeants had only commissions given them to enlist, but no sum, unless the men were raised. Certainly, the inspecting field officers were allowed to make advances to those Serjeants, and the only reason why no bond of security was given by them on those advances, was the large duties on such bonds.Lord Castlereagh,
 replied to the objections advanced against the measure, and enforced the necessity of going into a committee, when the opposers of the bill would have an opportunity of submitting their various amendments and modifications.—After some brief observations from Mr. Tierney and Mr. Windham, leave was granted to bring in the Bill, under an implied undertaking that its principle was to be fully discussed on the committal of it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 re-stated what he had antecedently communicated to the house; and observed that it could be no disrespect to him, for any hon. member who thought otherwise, to vote according to his individual impression. He had when called upon, as it was his duty, stated the practice of the house to the best of his judgment; and it would be for the house to decide, whether it would adhere to its regular practice, or depart from it in this instance.The Speaker
 having been appealed to, stated, that it was quite clear, that if a petition was offered to that house with signatures, avowed Hot to be in the handwriting of the parties whose names they purported to be, it was not receivable. The simple remedy for this was, if these signatures could be detached from the petition, to present it with such only as had been actually subscribed by the parties, in which case the Petition would be received. That house knew of no petitioners; it considered only the matters substantially contained in the petition. There were two ways, by either of which the present difficulty might be got over. The signatures which were not real might be erased, and the petition presented with the original signatures; but that was hazardous both to the parties and the hon. member who should undertake to cancel any names appearing to the petition. The other course was, to detach the signatures that were not original from the petition, and as far as that could be done, to present it with such of the original signatures as were annexed to the petition.The Speaker
 suggested that it would be extremely desirable, if the right hon. gent. could point out any distinctive mark by which those which purported to be the signatures of the parties could be known and distinguished from the real signatures.The Speaker
54 contended, that the time for making a radical reformation in an army was peace and not war; and that the army in this country, if a proper disposition were made of it, would be amply sufficient, without the imposition of any additional burden upon the people, by ballot or otherwise, to repel whatever enemy might venture to attack us. The pathetic manner in which the right hon. gent. had so repeatedly deplored the subversion of his military system, reminded him of the lamentation of Rachel over her children, who, according to the Scriptures, 'would not be comforted.' Among other regulations which he thought it would be adviseable to adopt in the present juncture, he strenuously recommended the formation of camps for the exercise of our army, both regulars and militia. He was convinced also, that if the volunteers were united for a time to regular troops for the
54General Tarleton
 considered the bill as an innovation, and said he would take another opportunity of stating his objections fully on this subject.Dr. Laurence
35 acquiesced in the rule laid down by the Chair in ail ordinary cases, but asserted that the peculiar circumstances of the present case were such as to except it from the application of the ordinary rule. There was no man from Ireland who did not know that two or three millions of signatures could be obtained for the petition. The petition might be received as the petition of those only who had actually subscribed it. If the petition had come from persons partially interested, there might be some reason for inquiring into the signatures, but as this petition expressed the sentiments of so large a portion of the people of Ireland, no form ought to be allowed to keep it out of that house. He thought, therefore, that it ought to be received upon the assurance of his right hon. friend, that he
35Mr. Tierney
 explained, and desired to know, whether if the question should come to a vote and he should vote for receiving the petition, it would be any disrespect to the chair, after the statement of the practice of the house which had been so distinctly given from the Chair?Mr. Tierney
 lamented the awkward situation in which the petitioners would be placed if this petition should be rejected. It would be an inhospitable reception that would be given to the claims of the petitioners. If the rule laid down was to be strictly observed, it would be peculiarly severe with respect to petitions from Ireland. No member who might present one from that country, particularly if of a popular nature, could possibly prove that all the signatures were real. Under these circumstances, the people of Ireland could have no communication with that house. He had presented petitions from several cities in Ireland, the signatures to which he could not have verified. He left it to the good sense of the house, whether they ought to be too critical in judging of petitions, when they conscientiously knew that the petitions contained the sentiments of those whose signatures were annexed. He protested against the application of the statement of the hon. baronet (sir R. Peele) to this case, because he was perfectly convinced, that the petition expressed the real sentiments of all whose names were subscribed to it. If they sent that back which other great bodies received, would not the Catholics of Ireland be discouraged from, any communication with the lower house of parliament? He remembered having presented a petition at one time to the Irish parliament, which had 40 or 50,000 signatures, of which only 7000 were original, yet that produced no difficulty. He knew it was discretionary in the house to receive the petition in its present shape, and he must put it therefore to their discretion. If the petition was to be sent back, and meetings should be called for obtaining signatures, it was not his fault. He would not undertake the responsibility of it. He could authenticate many of the signatures himself, as others could many more, and he therefore again put it to the good sense and discretion of the house, to receive the petition.Mr. Grattan
 replied, that all signatures by the authority of the parties, were written in the same hand, whereas the bona fide signatures were written in the various hands of the subscribing persons. He could prove the signatures of some of them himself, and these were men of the highest respectability, some of them, for instance lord Fingal, being at present in London. He had stated in candour the nature of some of the signatures, and with a view to guard against any imputation that he had presented a Petition purporting to express the sentiments of persons who had never subscribed it. Every person whose name appeared to the Petition, was ready to come forward and subscribe it, but he had thought it better to present the Petition in its present form than to send it back to Ireland and risk the consequences of the various meetings that must necessarily be called in order to obtain signatures.Mr. Grattan
 replied, that he was not prepared to state the proportion, but that the number of signatures affixed by order of the parties, amounted to several thousands.Mr. Grattan
 observed, that he held in his hand a Petition from a numerous body of men, styling themselves Roman Catholics, and praying relief from that house, in the hope that they might be admitted to the franchises of the constitution. He should not for the present enter into the matter of the petitioners' case, but content himself with moving that the Petition be received, and lie upon the table. On the 16th of May, however, he should submit a proposition to the house upon the subject. He fixed upon that day as the most convenient to several gentlemen who took a warm interest in the Petition, and he trusted it would prove equally convenient, to the gentlemen opposite. He had only to add, that this Petition was signed by a great proportion of the most respectable members of the Catholic body, many of whom had actually subscribed the Petition, whilst others, whose names appeared to it, had their signatures affixed by authority given to the persons who subscribed for them. The Petition, however, he should present as that of the persons only who had actually subscribed their own signatures to it. He moved therefore, that the Petition be received.Mr. Grattan
 defended the bill, as calculated to produce two desirable effects, namely, an increase of comfort, to the active curate, and the advantage of a resident, clergyman to the parish.Mr. Babington
 coincided with his noble friend, and declared his determination to oppose the bill in every stage. He designated it, if operative, as an act of plunder on the property of the rector, and if inefficient, one carried under false pretences through the legislature.Mr. Creevey
 observed, that there was not in any quarter a disposition to object to receiving the petition, but contended, that the usual practice of the house with respect to petitions, signed by many names, was of most substantial importance and real utility, and ought not to be departed from; for much inconvenience might arise from a precedent so establised, however strong the inducement might be.Mr. Wilberforce
l.l.53525150 rose to offer a few remarks upon the plan of the noble lord, but he could not help previously making one observation upon what had just fallen from the right hon. gent. who spoke last. The right hon. gent. had expressed a hope, that the time was now arrived in which a permanent system would be adopted for the defence of the country. Why this hope should be entertained by the right hon. gent. now, rather than at any former time, he was at a loss to conceive, and it appeared to him rather curious that such a hope should be entertained by those who were now breaking up the system already established. It was as absurd as a call for unanimity would be at the very moment when matter of contention and dispute was brought forward. The question was, what it was upon which they were to settle? The right hon. gent. certainly could not expect, that he should agree to a system which went to subvert
l.l.53525150Mr. Windham
 did not by any means wish that the house should depart from any rule laid down to regulate its proceedings; but at the same time he thought, in perfect consistence with the rule on this occasion, the petition should be allowed to remain upon the table. He could not see why the fictitious signatures, if any such there were, were to invalidate the real ones. They might let them he dead, and count them for nothing; and, surely, if fifty or sixty well-ascertained signatures could be made out, it would have the same effect as fifty or sixty thousand, since the importance of the petition was not attempted to be denied. He admitted, that if the signatures confessed to be real could be detached, it would be well; but, unfortunately, they were so blended with those called fictitious, that an attempt at discrimination would be utterly impossible. He hoped the house would not push the rule to its extent on this occasion, as it might lead to a manifest inconvenience; viz. that in case any future petition were to be presented, names might be fraudulently and clandestinely fabricated in the same hand, for the purpose of procuring the rejection of the petition. He thought the petition should, at all events, be suffered to lie on the table, with the names separate, if possible; but still, if that could not be effected, he thought it did not signify, as the suspected names might be allowed to go for nothing.Mr. Windham
 stated, that it was notorious that the Petition had been actually subscribed by several of the most eminent and respectable members of the Catholic body, and as such eight to be received.Mr. H. Parnell
l.l. thought, injustice, that a liberal compensation should be made to the curate, proportioned to the duties performed, and to the receipts of the living. Where they amounted to 500l.l.Sir Ralph Milbanke
 deprecated every application of the case stated by the hon. bart. to the present case. Persons might differ on the question respecting war or peace, but no man could doubt that the whole Catholic, population of Ireland were desirous of being admitted to the franchises of the constitution. If ever the rule of the house was to be departed from, it was in the present instance.Sir J. Newport
 observed, that the case of the petition from the merchants of Cork did not at all bear upon the present petition.Sir J. Newport
*56 chairman of the Committee appointed to consider of the propriety of confining for a
*56Lord Binning,
 spoke to the same effect.Mr. Western
 as a member of a barley county, found it impossible to allow the measure to be announced, without announcing at the same time his determined opposition to it. He could not help ascribing the design to party motives: a rumour had reached his ears, that the members for Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex were excluded from the committee in its formation, because they were barley counties.Admiral Hervey,
59 said the committee had by no means been appointed in opposition to the established, principles alluded to by the hon. gent. who had just sat down, or with a view to consult the interests of the colonies, at the expence of those of the mother country. The circumstances which called for the investigation of the committee, were of a temporary nature; so was the relief proposed in the report. These circumstances applied to the mother country as well as the colonies, and so did the relief; and so far was it from being intended to do any premature injury to agriculture, that not even a momentary depression of the price of grain was to take place without a power to put an end to the proposed restriction. He would express no opinion as to the propriety of carrying the recommendation contained in the report into effect. He had formed no opinion; he had avoided forming any till he should have the whole subject and evidence before him in the report. The committee had been appointed to consider the depressed state of the West India produce, and what relief could be afforded by introducing the use of sugar into the distilleries, or by any other means. The committee had taken into consideration the state of our foreign trade, and the probability of our being for some time deprived of our usual supplies of grain from abroad. And upon the general consideration of the state of the country, and of the West Indies, the report
59The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the discussion premature till the report should be printed and in the hands of members a sufficient time for consideration. He did not conceive that the right hon. gent. on whose motion the committee was formed, had passed over the members for Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex, because these were corn counties. He himself had voted in favour of the recommendation to prohibit the use of corn in distillation, but he by no means would have done so, if he could have thought the prohibition likely to prove injurious to the landed interest.Lord Binning
58 thought it must be a most extravagant degree of alarm that could suggest to one member that the barley fields would lie uncultivated, and to another that the representation of the people, and composition of the house of commons, would be deteriorated by affording the relief which West India produce required, which could be afforded without injury, and to which persons interested in the West India colonies were well entitled. The committee had been formed as fairly as possible, by including a just proportion of every interest concerned. He hoped the landed interest would take up this
58Mr. Lushington
 then gave notice, that unless some other person should offer a motion to the house founded on the Report, he should do so in proper time.Lord Binning
 brought in a bill to encourage the residence of Stipendiary Curates.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said his majesty had not been consulted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.63 expressed his readiness to abandon the Bills he had introduced to provide for the interest and sinking fund for the sums wanted for the public service, if the hon. gent. could devise means of answering these claims without new taxes. He would be grateful, even, for any suggestion that could tend, to diminish the taxes he had felt himself called upon to propose; but he did not see how what the hon. gent. proposed, so
l.63The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supposed it possible that this 'Protestant Catechism' might have been composed before the Catholics formally and solemnly disavowed the sentiments imputed to them.Colonel Barry
l.66 (knight of Kerry) said, that Mr. Parnell had been absolutely obliged to bring the matter before the house, as he had been defied to produce such a Catechism at the time he alluded to it. The Catechism had now been produced, and it was a composition only fit for a Portuguese Jesuit, in the 16th century. If Ignatius Loyola had now been alive, and
l.66Mr. Fitzgerald
 having moved the order of the day for the house going into a committee on the Petitions against the Orders in Council, and the house having gone into a committee, several witnesses were called in to answer the evidence in support of these petitions.—The house resumed, and the chairman obtained leave to sit again on Tuesday se'nnight, with an understanding that the evidence in support of the Orders was then closed, and that the witnesses which had been named on a former day by Mr. Tierney should then attend.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated the impediment in point of form.The Speaker
 stated, that it was contrary to precedent that the house should interfere with the hereditary revenue of the crown, without the authority of a special communication from his majesty.The Speaker
 condemned the opposition shewn to the report as premature; the object of the report could yet be scarcely known, and certainly the reasons on which that object was founded, and the regulations and restrictions by which the proposed measure was to be accompanied, were not. He was satisfied, that no member of the committee would have voted for the report, if there could have been the slightest idea that the measure proposed would be injurious to agriculture. The committee was fairly formed of persons selected from every interest, and framed its report from the best view of the general situation and circumstances of the country.Mr. C. Ellis
 declared himself satisfied after the explanation of the chancellor of the exchequer, that the rumour of the members for the corn counties having been excluded from, improper motives, was without foundation.Admiral Harvey
d.57** could not suffer misconceptions, such as those expressed by the hon. members who had spoken before him, to go abroad, and operate uncontradicted during the recess. Though he was a merchant, he felt the importance of agriculture as much as any man, and knew that the principal dependence of the country was upon it. It would be found, when the Report should come to be examined, that the committee had looked not only to the interests of the West Indies, but also more particularly to those of the country at home, taking into consideration the present state of its foreign relations, which proba-
d.57**Mr. Hibbert
65 bore, testimony to the good management of the charter schools in other respects; but he condemned this 'Protestant Catechism,' which had been composed for their use. Among other extracts which he read from it was one where the child is asked, was there any salvation for persons in the communion of the
65Mr. Grattan
 was sorry that this subject had been drawn into discussion in that house. It had already engaged the attention of the Board of Education, who would probably give directions respecting it. He certainly never had seen the 'Protestant Catechism,' nor was he acquainted with those documents which the hon. gent. quoted to refute it; but he thought, that when he had stated what was taught in some schools, he ought also to have stated what was taught in others. He had been informed, that at several Catholic schools children had been taught to read, not in the Bible, but in Paine's Rights of Man, and in books which gave an account of what the Roman Catholics of Ireland had suffered from the Protestants. Such an education as this would breed them up in a fixed and rooted hatred to Protestants.Sir A. Wellesley
 would be glad of a provision that would secure even the residence of Curates; for the only object of many of those who possessed a plurality of livings, was to get the duty done as cheaply as possible. The Clergy Residence act had in a great measure failed from the facility of procuring licences. He knew an instance of a clergyman who had two livings in different parts of the country, who procured an exemption from residing at any of them; from the one upon a certificate that the country did not agree with his constitution, and from the other because the country did not agree with his wife.—The bill was then read a first and second time, committed and reported.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 having maintained, on a former night, that the interest and sinking fund for the sum wanted for the service of the year, might be found without imposing any new taxes on the subject, had to propose certain Resolutions with a view to that object, which he hoped the house would allow to be laid on the table, and to be printed, in order to their being taken into consideration on a future day.—On the suggestion of the chancellor of the exchequer, it was agreed, that the Resolutions should be read, and the debate arising on them adjourned to Friday fortnight.—Several Resolutions relating to the amount of Supplies voted, the surplus of the Consolidated Fund, &c. were read and disposed of accordingly, but on a Resolution proposing the sale of some parts of the Hereditary Revenue of the crown,Mr. Biddulph
62 proposed to reconcile this
62Mr. Biddulph
l.l. refused to withdraw his motion, and thought the difficulties of form ought to be accommodated rather than made a bar to the consideration of a proposition, the object of which was to save the subject from any additional burthens this year. As certain property, such as warehouses and legal quays, had been purchased by money from the Consolidated Fund, and vested in his majesty, so he thought parts of the other property of the crown might be granted for the service of the public. He did not mean to touch any property essential to the dignity, splendour, or comfort of the crown. The property he alluded to consisted chiefly of detached houses and small pieces of land in Piccadilly, and other parts of the town, to the sale of which he could not see any good ground of opposition. He would give a schedule of this property in due time. It consisted, first of property attended with constant loss; secondly, of trifling rents, which had constantly declined in value from the time of Philip and Mary, when they were worth 5,100l.l.Mr. Biddulph
 replied, that he was very willing to withdraw the resolution, if the rt. hon. gent. would endeavour to procure for the object of it the recommendation of the crown.—On the suggestion of the Speaker, the last Resolution was withdrawn, and the consideration of the other Resolutions was postponed to the 25th of this month.Mr. Biddulph
 stated, that the greatest alarm prevailed in the county he represented (Ross), and the adjoining county of Sutherland, at the idea of the measure recommended in this report. He was sure there would be meetings, and petitions to parliament on the subject.Mr. Macleod
 allowed that the West India trade was entitled to relief, and would be ready to support any relief given at the general expence of the country. What he complained of was a relief proposed to be given by the injury and oppression of the barley counties. A committee was not to be appointed to revise and bring into question the fundamental principles of public economy, so decidedly laid down by Hume, Stuart, and Smith, in this country, and by Turgot and Condorcet, in France. The uncertain wealth of speculation should not be supported by the sacrifice of the certain benefits of agriculture. He should look to the Report narrowly, and oppose it in every stage, if, as he feared, it contained a recommendation to prohibit the distillation of corn.Mr. Brand
 hoped the hon. gent. would withdraw his motion. It was quite improper to think of interfering with the hereditary revenue, without his majesty's permission, intimated either by a special message or by his confidential advisers.Mr. Lethbridge
 agreed with the hon. baronet. The landed interest was sufficiently depressed, and the influence of members whose consequence arose from trade was already sufficiently great, without striking a general blow at an extensive branch of the agriculture of the country. He should give his determined opposition to the measure.Mr. Chute
 read from the Roman Catholic prayer-book, which was published by the sanction of the four Catholic archbishops of Ireland, and which was put into the hands of all the Catholic children of that country, doctrines totally different from those which had been imputed to them in this 'Protestant Catechism.' The precepts in the Catholic prayer-book were allegiance to the king, and respect to existing governments. In that part of it which related to love and charity to our neighbours, the question is put to the Catholic child, 'Who is your neighbour?' the answer is, 'mankind of every persuasion, and we are bound to love those who differ from us in opinion, and even those who injure us.'Mr. Elliot
 said, the attention of the committee was always directed to the interests of the country, as well as to those, of the West India trade. He should have felt himself unworthy of the trust reposed in him as a member of the committee, if he had acted on any other principle. The measure recommended was but of a temporary nature, to be in force for twelve months from the 1st of July next; and if the restriction should at any time be found injurious to the price of corn, it might be removed without delay. But, if the restriction on the exportation of corn from the port of London to the colonies should be taken off, the landed interest would gain more by opening that trade than it could by any possibility suffer from the limitation. He thought it right to state this now, to correct as far as possible the misconception and alarm that had gone abroad. Such explanation was the more essential, as from the voluminous nature of the Report, it would be a long time before it could be printed and circulated in such a manner as to do itself that justice. As a proof of the impartiality that regulated the formation of the Committee, he stated, that he did not know his name was on the list till he heard it pronounced from the chair. Most of the merchants on the committee were wholly unconnected with the West-Indies.Mr. Manning
60 knew nothing of the Re-
60Mr. Windham
 thought it right to apprize the house, that the part of the Report which went to prohibit the use of grain in distillation, though sanctioned by a majority of the committee, had by no means its unanimous approbation. If any legislative measure should be proposed on the Report, tending to carry that principle into effect, he gave notice that he should feel it his duty to oppose it. There was no sufficient public ground for such a measure, and it would be extremely injurious to the barley counties, one of which he had the honour to represent. He was confident that his constituents would give him instructions to oppose the proposition, and that they would petition against the measure.Sir H. Mildmay
 said, that he had not intended to find fault with any thing else in these institutions, and having mentioned this matter publickly, he should not refuse to vote the sum named in the resolution.—The Resolution was then agreed to.Mr. Parnell
64 rose to draw the attention of the house to a circumstance respecting those institutions he had before alluded to, and which he thought ought to be redressed. A sort of Catechism had been composed for those schools, called the 'Protestant Catechism,' which did not dwell, as the Catechisms we were best acquainted with, upon prayers, creed, or commandments, but went almost entirely to abuse the tenets of the Catholic church, which
64Mr. Parnell
 stated, that the agricultural part of the community throughout the empire had felt the greatest alarm since the committee had been formed. It was therefore essential that the Report should be printed as speedily as possible, and that it should be circulated through the country, and full time given for the consideration of it. Then the sentiments of the farmers and land-owners might be conveyed to parliament; the case would be decided on an attentive view of the whole of the merits; and the landed interest would receive that protection to which it was entitled.Sir J. Sinclair
 thought that it was no sort of excuse for such doctrines being taught in our charter-schools, which were national institutions, under the controul of government, and paid by the public, to say that at some obscure Catholic school doctrines as mischievous were taught. He thought his hon. friend had done very right in bringing the business forward in this manner, as it was often by the animadversions of the public that the grossest abuses were corrected. It was not above 14 years ago when no children could be educated at those Protestant charier schools but the children of popish parents, and it was very lately a custom to send the children from the South of Ireland to the North, and change their names for the purpose of cutting off all intercourse with their parents or relations. Those abuses had been hitherto principally corrected by becoming subjects of general conversation and censure.Sir J. Newport
 could not resolve the question, from his recollection of the provisions of the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that, he put the question, not merely from knowing how interesting the result must be to those who stood in this predicament, but also in compliance with a requisition which had been made to him.—Adjourned till Tuesday the 26th instant.Sir J. C. Hippisley
67 begged to put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer, in the absence of a noble viscount who had brought in this bill; which was, Whether any exception was to be made in favour of those balloted men, who had relied on the faith of parliament for not being again called upon till the lists of their respective parishes were exhausted? For such was the construction of the law: and gentlemen, like himself, who had acted in carrying into effect the provisions of the late Militia Transfer bill, had witnessed the anxiety
67Sir J. C. Hippisley
68 said, his right hon. friend had considerably limited the cases where non-residence was allowed in Ireland. And it would be for parliament hereafter to see how far the power of dispensing with residence had been extended. With respect to the curates of Ireland, it was his wish that the provision for augmenting their salaries should be
68The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as the affairs of the East India Company were already under the consideration of a committee of that house, which was then employed in investigating them, he would move, That the Petition be referred to the said committee.Mr. Grant
l. said, that it was clear, that whatever the company might be able to do at a future period, they were now unable to pay their dividend, and called upon that house to enable them by a sum of money, to be raised upon the country, to supply their deficiency, and enable them to pay the dividend of their particular stock. He thought that before the house agreed to dispose of 2,400,000l.Mr. Ponsonby
76 said, that there was at present no call for a determination whether it was fit to comply with the prayer of the petition or not. That question must depend upon the Report of the Committee With regard to the complaint of an hon. gent. that no notice had been given, he conceived that it was not customary to require a notice of an intention to present a petition. If indeed there had been any doubt or difficulty with respect to the motion, founded upon it, that might be a good reason for a delay in the proceeding. But the whole that was now proposed was, to put the petition in a state of enquiry, and for that purpose nothing could be so proper as to refer it to the committee actually employed in the investigation of the subject to which it related; and there was no occasion therefore for any notice. The right hon. gent. who spoke last had begged that he might not be considered as pledging himself to any assent to the prayer of the petition by not objecting to this reference. This caution was unnecessary, because nobody could be pledged till the result of
76The Chancellor of the Exchequer
77l. in explanation, stated, that he had given no opinion as to the propriety or impropriety of complying with the prayer of the petition. He had merely said, that this must be considered as a gift, and not a loan, and his reason was, that if the credit of the Company was sound, they might borrow money upon it without coming to parliament: another reason was, that after all the promises as to the assistance they would be enabled to give the public, they had never advanced more than 500,00077l.Mr. Ponsonby,
79 replied, that it was not usual to produce documents in support of the allegations contained in a petition, but that the only reason none were offered in this case was, that they could not be prepared in time for the petition to be presented within the limits prescribed by the house. As to the deficiency of the East
79Mr. R. Dundas
75 declared that he had no wish to take the house by surprise, or to pass any measure of importance in a thin house; but he conceived that many of the observations just made, had a tendency to prejudice the company in the eyes of the public, and therefore he would make a short reply to them. With respect to the trade of the Americans to India, the public laboured under a great mistake. The situation of Europe was such as necessarily to check the extent of our Indian trade; and the neutral state of the Americans enabled them to derive advantages from that trade, which it was not in the power of the company to prevent. Whenever this case should come to be fully discussed before the house, sufficient evidence would be shewn to remove every prejudice that might exist on the subject. None other could supply the continent of Europe with Indian produce, but the Americans; and it was not the fault of the company that they engrossed so great a share of the trade. With respect to the observations which fell from an hon. gent. (Mr. Creevey,) he did not know how far it was regular for a member of the committee to give an opinion from documents which, in that character, he had access to, and thus prejudice the judgment of the house, before any report was made. The company had the guarantee of parliament to expect that their present request would be granted. He denied that it was to be considered in the light of a gift; and he hoped
75Mr. Grant
l.72l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.71l.l.70l.l.l.69 presented a Petition of the United Company of Merchants of England trading to the East Indies, setting forth,l.72l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.71l.l.70l.l.l.69Mr. C. Grant
 in explanation, said, that he meant no more than that the noble lords had been much too sanguine in their calculations.—The motion was then agreed to.Mr. Tierney,
78l. stated that the Company had a right, by act of parliament, to increase their capital to a sum equivalent to four millions, and last year parliament authorised them to issue bonds to one half that amount, he considered this application as similar to that of last year. The Company now had a right to demand a debt of 1,200,00078l.Mr. Tierney
 in reply, said, that it was his intention to propose an augmentation to the salaries of the curates in Ireland; which he should do, either in the committee on the bill of his right hon. friend, or by a separate bill. With respect to the hon. baronet's observation against granting power to bishops to dispense with residence, he was afraid that, as pluralities must exist in Ireland, in consequence of the present state of the church there, it would be impossible to enforce residence in every instance.Sir A. Wellesley,
 insisted, that there had of late been a total suppression of the East India Company's affairs, and the last budget had only brought them up to 1803–4, since which time not a document on the subject had been produced. Neither were there any documents in support of the petition, and he considered it only fair and reasonable, that before parliament granted any aid, a complete state of the Company's returns, sales, profits, and assets, should be laid before it.Mr. Howorth
 in explanation, said, that he had not asserted that any notice was requisite before presenting the petition. What he did say was, that in a question of this magnitude it would have been proper to have given notice of the motion for reference.Mr. M. A. Taylor,
73 said, although he should be inclined to bow to any recommendation of that committee, yet he could not help thinking the most fair way would be to refer this Petition to a special committee, as it appeared to be a question of very great importance, in order to ascertain whether the East India Company were preferring a claim or a demand. He thought that as such a full investigation was necessary, the hon. gent. who presented this petition ought to have given the house a regular notice of his intention to refer it to the consideration and investigation of a committee. He did not wish to enter into any discussion of East India affairs at present, but he thought that when the house were to be induced to agree that such a sum should be given away, the case ought not to be submitted to them in such a thin house. In the most common cases such notices had uniformly been given, and was it not absurd to endeavour, under other circumstances, to make the house sanction and encourage a demand to that extent upon the public? He hoped, therefore, that a regular notice would yet be given, for he could not so permit one shilling of his constituents to go towards the East India company. He had been formerly one of the East India committee, and then thought, as he still did think, that that company was a monopoly that ought not long to exist. This was a question which would
73Mr. M. A. Taylor
74 thought the house under obligations to his hon. friend, for the manner in which he had brought this subject forward. Being a member of the committee for inquiring into the affairs of the India company, he had an opportunity of seeing documents which enabled him to form an opinion, that the Company never would be able to repay the loan they were now calling on parliament to grant. There was a deficit in the present year's account of no less than three millions; and what reason was there to suppose that the Company would not come next year and call for another loan? If the money they called for now was granted, it must be considered as a gift, and not as a loan. It, therefore, was necessary immediately to consider whether the monopoly ought to be renewed. The Company was now carrying on a trade without any surplus revenue, by borrowing money at a high interest. Their trade was daily decreasing, and the Americans had become their rivals in it. Some means should be devised to stop this Ame-
74Mr. Creevey
 observed, that the East India company had not come, as some gentlemen imagined, to ask the house for any indulgence but such as had been granted to other mercantile companies, and on former occasions to themselves. They had, some years ago, applied for and obtained similar relief, which they had invariably returned to the public; and he could not see why they should now be refused assistance, when they shewed the same grounds for it, and had kept their faith so well on former occasions. He denied in strong terms that there had been any attempt on the part of the Company to delude the public, or to keep from them a fair state of their affairs, and deprecated the ingrafting on this subject the question of the policy of throwing open the East India trade. He trusted that when this question came to be discussed hereafter, it would not be canvassed in a mere commercial point of view, but that the whole political bearings of the case would be taken into consideration, both as relating to the welfare of that country, and, in his opinion, to the very existence of this. He would not, however ready he was to enter upon this investigation, trouble the house further on this occasion, than to express his doubts as to the practicability of the export trade to India being carried on by individual exertion, whatever facility opening the intercourse of private traders might afford to the importation of East India goods.Sir John Anstruther
 considered the sum now demanded as nothing less than a gift; and as Ireland must be obliged to contribute a part of it, he would now lay his claim on behalf of Ireland, to a revision of the act by which Ireland gave up her right to any part of the trade to India, in order that she might receive remuneration for her losses in consequence of this monopoly. This was the opinion of all the commercial bodies in Ireland, who felt that if they contributed anything towards relieving the East India company, they ought to have a share in the trade.Sir John Newport
l.l. said, he fully concurred in the measure, so far as it went: but this bill fell very far short of the efficient purposes for which it had been framed. He thought it should make more ample provision for curates, who, in case of the non-residence of the rectors, would have to do the whole of the duty, and that the power of dispensing with, or enforcing residence, should not rest with the bishops. The person who did not reside on his living, ought to give a considerable portion of the profits to him who did reside, and who performed the duty. He was also at a less to know why this bill contained no provision to augment the salaries of curates. The hon. baronet then stated instances of curates having no more than 20l.l.Sir John Newport
 rose pursuant to the notice he gave yesterday. He said that in various cases of shipwreck, dead bodies were cast on the shores of this kingdom, which sometimes could not receive the common rights of burial. This was a disgusting circumstance, and disgraceful to the character of the country. The cause was, that parish officers were afraid to order bodies to be buried, on account of the expences they might bring upon the parishes. His object in the present measure, was to propose that parish officers should be compelled to bury all bodies so cast on shore; and that the expence of the same should be defrayed by the countries. Also, that rewards should be given to persons discovering dead bodies, and giving information of the same to the parish officers. He then moved for leave to bring in a bill to that effect, which was granted.Mr. Tremaine
 these cause were so numerous and so scattered through different parts of Ireland, that he did not see how it was possible to procure the returns which the hon. gent. desired.Dr. Duigenan
80 replied, that the objection stated by the learned doctor, was the principal reason why he wished to have such returns laid before the house. It was because these processes were so numerous, and because litigations respecting tythes in Ireland had increased to so great a pitch, that he thought it necessary for parliament to have the fullest information con-
80Mr. Parnell
 gave notice, that on Monday he would move several amendments in the bill for increasing the Assessed taxes. While he was on his legs, he would take that opportunity of asking his majesty's ministers, whether it was intended to adopt any new regulations in pursuance of that part of the Report of the commissioners of Military Inquiry, which related to the abuses in the medical department of the army?Mr. Wardell
 observed, that if the honourable gentleman recollected the period at which the report he alluded to was made, he must not conclude, that there was any ministers, if they had not finally determined what measures ought to be adopted on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that he was not satisfied with the answer he had received, and wished to know if it was intended to bring forward any proposition on this subject at an early period.Mr. Wardel
 said, he could not give a precise answer to the question, but the hon. gent was at liberty to fix on any time he chose, for bringing the Report under the consideration of the house.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
81 said, he only knew of this rumour, from what he saw in the newspapers. It was, however, natural to suppose, that persons in Ireland would wish to get
81Mr. Foster
 said the sentiment just expressed by the hon. baronet, respecting the union with Ireland, was one calculated to produce as many mischievous consequences as any that ever had been uttered in that house. He called on the hon. baronet to state one instance in which the principle he alluded to had been acted upon by parliament. If he knew of any instances in which a disposition prejudicial to Ireland had been shewn, let him bring them before the house. As to the principle of the present bill, the hon. baronet did not withhold his approbation towards it at the time when he had a seat in his majesty's councils. If ever there should be a question to be decided, whether advantages were to be granted to Ireland or to G. Britain, he was confident that the house, so far from acting injuriously towards Ireland, would be inclined rather to turn the scale of advantage in her favour. He could recollect no instance in which the proceedings of that house could justify the insinuation of the hon. baronet.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the hon. baronet, though called on to prove his assertion, produced only one solitary instance. Now, if the, house should, come to the examination of the act of union, and the hon. baronet should state the article which he considered to have been infringed by this bill, he himself would undertake to prove that such article was one which required explanation, and that what had been done was strictly conformable to the spirit of the act of union. Let not the hon. baronet make general charges, but state the specific grounds on which his principle stood. As to this particular bill, he surely could not object to the continuance of it for a certain time.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared he had always found in that house a most favourable disposition towards Ireland. The bill in question was the only instance the hon. baronet could produce to prove his assertion. He defied him to produce any other; or even to shew in what manner this bill was unfavourable to Ireland.Mr. Foster
 replied, that there never was an instance so opposite to the thing he wanted to establish, as that noticed by the hon. baronet. That bill had been introduced by a friend to the Irish distilleries, namely, by himself. It permitted them to warehouse their spirits if they chose, and to export them with as much drawback as could be allowed consistently with the articles of union. It was therefore rather favourable than otherwise to the Irish distiller.Mr. Foster
83 conceived that nothing could be more mischievous than to suffer such language as that used by the hon.83Mr. Mac Naghten
 considered the speech of the hon. baronet as calculated to do much mischief in Ireland; the interests of which country, he contended, had always been treated with candour and fairness by that house.Mr. D. Browne
 observed, that the act in question was in force while the hon. baronet was in administration, and he made no complaint against it during all that time, nor introduced a single regulation for encouraging the spirit trade of Ireland, although it was entirely in his power. Therefore, as this was the only instance the hon. baronet could advance to show that Ireland had been unfairly dealt with, he hoped the house would attach to it the weight which it deserved.—The bill then went through the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
85 contended, that there was no additional expence incurred by the re-publication of those old proclamations which were alluded to, as the editors were generally paid by the year, and not for each particular publication. As to any attempt at influence, he disclaimed it as far as concerned himself altogether; nor did he think the publica-
85Sir A. Wellesley
 said he could not see how the grant of that money was in any degree abused; it certainly was not his fault if the editors made a bad selection of proclamations.Sir A. Wellesley
 said, that being intimate with an editor of an Irish newspaper, he had remarked to him particularly the circumstances now alluded to, that of the reprinting old proclamations. The answer the editor gave was "Indeed, to tell you the truth, we often are so barren of news, and so pinched for want of paragraphs, that we consider ourselves very well off when we can make shift with a convenient proclamation; it, is not very interesting to be sure, but then it serves to fill up the paper."—He said inferior newspapers only republished them.Mr. Croker
 objected to the present bill as unnecessary.Mr. W. Taylor
 declared, he never felt more pain than he now did, at what fell from his right lion, friend. He had ever observed in that house a disposition to do the amplest justice to Ireland. The present charge was not alone directed against his majesty's ministers, but against every member of that house, and he felt it was directed against his own parliamentary conduct. He hoped his right hon. friend would abstain from sowing the seeds of hostility between the two countries, and endeavour to do away the effect of his assertion.Mr. Wilberforce
 considered the admission of the last speaker conclusive in support of the amendment moved by his hon. friend. If the editors of newspapers wished to promote the sale of their papers, they would, naturally, reprint all those proclamations which referred to important national objects, and where there were minor or subordinate documents, the parties interested in their operation would take care to inform themselves of their nature and tendency by means of the Dublin Gazette. The present mode was proved to be a job, and ought instantly to be abolished.Mr. Windham
 said, there appeared to him to be a regular traffic carried on between the press and the government in Ireland; it seemed as if the first step of each succeeding ministry was to see what each editor would sell for. There was a peculiar loss attending the insertion of these proclamations, inasmuch as they paid no stamp duty, and so prevented the insertion of advertisements that did. As to the arguments made use of to shew the disinterestedness of government by extending the proclamations to opposition papers, he thought they made against those who produced them, as they shewed not only an inclination to increase the expence to the country, but also to try to the utmost what temptation could do.Mr. Parnell
86 said, he had not intended to state the names of the papers he al-
86Mr. Parnell
 contended that his right hon. friend was right in the supposition, that the act would tend to injure the Irish distillers. If the act of union gave an advantage in one point to one of the countries, he supposed it gave an equivalent to the other: that was matter of consideration at the time of its enactment, and certainly it would be highly unjust now to alter any of the provisions which were advantageous to Ireland. He thought the imputation cast on this act was perfectly justified by the circumstances: as to the surprise which the chancellor of the exchequer intimated, at the supposition that this bill went to injure Ireland, he did not see any particular grounds for it: the report of the committee now sitting on the subject of distillation he thought might tend, together with the operation of this act, materially to prevent the sale of Irish manufacture.Mr. Parnell
 rose for the purpose of moving, that the words 'and other papers,' be left out. He stated that these proclamations were extended by government to other papers merely for the purpose of undue influence. There was no necessity for this: it entailed an exorbitant expence on the country, which was increased as much as possible by the editors of newspapers, for their own emolument. He instanced three cases out of many in which old proclamations were actually inserted for no other purpose; one of them was of so old a date as 1805, warning all his majesty's good and loving subjects in 1808, of a fever which raged at Gibraltar at the first issuing of the proclamation. A second was also inserted in 1808, giving notice of a limitation to the exportation of goods from Ireland, which limitation expired in 1807. A third was lately inserted also, giving notice of a supply of seamen wanted in 1805. Such was the service for the support of which parliament was now solicited; if he did not miscall that a service which was in itself unnecessary, or made necessary only for the purposes of corruption.Mr. Parnell
 persisted in his assertion. He avowed every deference to the opinion of the hon. gent, but said he could not be deterred by any imputations upon his motives, from making his complaints in that house, where they might be answered or redressed, rather than out of doors, where they could only excite murmurs and discontents.Sir J. Newport
 said that spirits were prohibited from being sent from Ireland to England, unless they were warehoused.Sir J. Newport
82 stated, that he considered the act of union to have been violated in the law for disallowing the drawback on
82Sir J. Newport
 rose to complain of it as the renewal of a measure which, when originally passed, was nothing less than a violation of the act of union. It appeared to him that such articles of the union as were beneficial to G. Britain and injurious to Ireland, were acted upon, and that no disposition had been manifested by the parliament to promote the prosperity of Ireland. He was one of those who, in the parliament of Ireland, had supported the union, because he expected many important benefits from it to that country. If these benefits were not to follow from it, the union must be considered as a curse instead of a blessing.Sir John Newport
 said, he understood by public rumour, stated in some of the newspapers, that in consequence of the deficiency of Flax-seed imported this year into Ireland, owing to the embargo in the American ports, a considerable quantity of the flax-seed remaining in G. Britain, and which was intended to be expressed into oil, had been sent over to Ireland, and allowed to pass. As this was a subject of great importance to the kingdom, masmuch as it involved in it the staple manufacture of Ireland, he wished to know if there was any truth in the rumour.Sir John Newport
l.l.l.l. rose to move the Resolution for a grant to Maynooth College. The grant in former years had been 8,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Foster
 declared, that the ground on which he was induced to concur in the motion of his right hon. friend was, his conviction that the number of priests who would be educated at the College of Maynooth, would, according to his right hon. friend's proposition, added to those educated in other parts of Ireland (of whom the right hon. baronet had taken no notice), be folly adequate to the purposes for which they were required. As far as he understood, the number of Catholic priests necessary in Ireland was 2000. One hundred and eleven students were educated in different parts of that island, which he enumerated; these, added to the 250 which it was proposed to educate at Maynooth, made 361. The term of education was seven years, but frequently it did not extend beyond live. Supposing, therefore, that on the average 50 students would annually become fit for ordination, he conceived that this number would be sufficient to keep up the necessary establishment. The fact was, that when the Maynooth Institution was first established, it was not intended that it should be maintained by the public purse. The memorial presented previously to the foundation of that establishment, prayed for a charter, in order that their funds might be better secured. With respect to the 478 Catholic students, who, according to the right hon. baronet, were educated on the continent before the French Revolution, the fact was, that most of them received priests orders before, they went abroad. It would be found, upon enquiry, that about 300 of them supported themselves when abroad by the exercise of their functions as priests.Sir A. Wellesley
93l.l.l.92 ironically observed, that he had great satisfaction in noticing the strong disposition to economy manifested by the right hon. gentlemen opposite. To this motive alone could the curtailment now proposed be attributed. It was not
93l.l.l.92Mr. Ponsonby
94 disclaimed having ever stated a principle of economy, as the ground of the part he had felt it his duty to take on the subject of this grant. On the contrary, he was of opinion, that a saving of three, five, or ten thousand pounds, should not be any consideration to impede a measure of great and important public advantage. As to what the right hon. gent. had said with respect to the Bill now before the house, for the improvement of the Police of Dublin, he did not understand him to object to the grant for that purpose, and certainly the arguments he used in favour of an extended grant in the case under consideration, would apply with full effect in favour of that measure. The right hon. gent. argued, that the conduct of those who supported the original vote, arose from the pleasure they felt in refusing a boon to so large a proportion of the people of Ireland. But he was convinced that the generous mind of that right hon. gent. was incapable of supposing that any man could entertain such a sentiment. For himself, he felt no such sentiment, and when, from the perhaps mistaken view he had of the subject, (for he did not think himself infallible,) he was bound to refuse a grant that would be agreeable to a large portion of his majesty's subjects, it was always to him a painful duty. As to the assertion that the vote which he was to give was dictated by bigotry or intolerance, he could not admit that it could be ascribed to either. It was no part of religious toleration to make a provision for the education of the clergy of the tolerated sect. If it were so, they ought to go much farther, for the ministers of the Methodists, Anabaptists, and Quakers, would on that ground have as good a claim to education as the Catholic clergy; for in this respect, numbers made no difference. The present question was, therefore, unconnected with intolerance. It was the duty of the state to provide for the education of the ministers of the religion of its own establishment, but the same obligation did not apply to other sects. All that toleration required with respect to them, was, that no difficulty should be created to any measures they might take for their own education. On every question for an increase of grant, it was fit to
94The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 insisted, that there had been an understanding between government and the Catholics, that a sum should be granted to this institution, sufficient to defray the expences of educating 400 students, and therefore he maintained that the present was a curtailed grant.Mr. Ponsonby
 replied that whatever might have been the understanding between the Catholics and the government of which the right hon. gent. was a member, parliament did not stand committed by any such pledge.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.95l. begged leave to explain how the fact really stood. The grant to the college of Maynooth, previous to the union, was only 8,000l.l.l.95l.Mr. W. Elliot
97 contended, that a provision for the education of 250 students would be insufficient to supply the vacancies that would occur in the Catholic clergy by deaths or casualties. To make up for this deficiency, the country would be left to two chances, private or foreign charity. One right hon. gent. had said that 111 were educated for the priesthood in private seminaries. But the education in these being only preparatory for the college, that was no education for the priesthood. By reducing the grant, the house would secure the ignorance and inveterate prejudices of a great portion of the Catholics. Proselytism was not to be expected under such circumstances. Religious conformity was impracticable, and political conformity, which was in their power, they would destroy by the course proposed. In endeavouring to enforce religious conformity, they would make the mass of that people inveterate Catholics and political enemies. Give them uneducated and ignorant priests, and you weaken the Protestant religion and the Protestant government. If provision be not made at home for the education of their clergy, they must seek it abroad. At present that could not happen; but we ought to look forward to a time of peace. Then they Mould go and bring back with them foreign connexions and foreign obligations. Why did we fear the Catholic religion? was it not from the foreign connexion which it involved? And whilst the spirit of Bonaparte pervaded the whole of the continent, was that a time I for keeping up the connexion? The students that went abroad for education under such circumstances, would acquire the same Deistical principles and political antipathies that would spread every where around them. They would therefore return religious Deists and political Catholics, to the great danger of overthrowing the government. It was true, that neither the ministers of the Methodists nor of the Quakers were educated at the public expence; but they were few in comparison, and the Catholics formed the great body of the people of Ireland. If the priests had any influence over the Catholics, they should be educated with sentiments of domestic attachment, not with those of our political enemies. He doubted whether the priests had as much absolute influence over the people of Ireland as was supposed, and the cause was, that they were not well educated. If they wished the
97Mr. Grattan
 gave his rote for the smaller sum, not from any indisposition to the great body of the Irish Catholics, but because 250 students, for whose education that sum was adequate to provide, were amply sufficient to supply the vacancies in 2000 parishes. He stated that 369 persons had been educated at the College of Maynooth, and that one fifth of these had not taken religious orders, but had adopted other professions. He likewise objected generally to the principles of the Maynooth Institution, because, from the circumstance of the education being entirely gratuitous, the students were persons from the lowest ranks of life; and if this were not the case, the higher classes of those who belonged to the Roman Catholic persuasion would bring up their sons as clergymen; of which, at present, there were few or no instances.Mr. Croker
l.l.98l. thought it extremely impolitic to hazard the irritation of the Catholics of Ireland for the sake of the paltry sum of 3,750l.l.98l.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 vindicated the Roman Catholic clergy, and read extracts from documents in the year 1793, when Defenderism broke out in Ireland, and in 1798, the period of the late Rebellion, to prove their loyalty and peaceful demeanour.—The question being now loudly called for, the committee divided,Mr. Parnell
 contended that it was the intention of Mr. Burke, in his bill, to accomplish the object which the right hon. gent. proposed. He dwelt at some length on the hardship to which Paymasters were exposed, who, having quitted office for many years, were called upon to make up their accounts, when the documents by which they might be enabled to do so were exposed to be stolen, and actually were stolen, for the purpose of sale to tallow chandlers and others, engaged in various businesses in which waste paper was necessary.Dr. Laurence
 again disclaimed any imputation whatever on Mr. Burke; but still contended, that his bill did not go to make the Paymaster's account a cash account.—Leave was granted to bring in the bill.Mr. Long
8988 in pursuance of his notice, rose
8988Mr. Long,
101 in rising to move the order of the day for the second reading of the Local Militia bill, thought it might be for the convenience of the house, and tend to save time, that he should take that opportunity of apprizing gentlemen of a few alterations which he meant to propose in the committee upon the bill. The alterations he had in view bore so directly and so much upon the general principle of the bill, that he was inclined to suppose they would, when explained, narrow considerably the limits of any discussion upon that head. The first alteration which he meant to propose, he adopted in consequence of its having been thought desirable that the measure under consideration should contain a proviso for the exemption from its operation of persons who had actually served in the militia, either personally or by substitute, or who had incurred any penalties in consequence of the militia acts. In framing his bill, he had followed the principle of the Training bill of the right hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Windham), which looked to personal service, and extended to all not actually serving in some other force. It was thought, however, desirable to allow persons of the description to which he had alluded, an immunity equivalent to that which they enjoyed under the militia laws, and for that purpose a certain number of years was fixed upon as the period of exemption, rather than an indefinite time.—The next point upon which he proposed an alteration was, to enable Volunteer corps that might be disposed to serve as local militia rather than as volunteers, to change the nature of their service: and on this head it was to be expressly provided, that no decision of a majority of any corps should bind those, either officers or men, who might be indisposed to the change of service, to serve in the local militia contrary to their own wish. The clause he had to propose,
101Lord Castlereagh,
117116115 replied shortly to the several objections made against the bill. He had been taxed, he said, with having borrowed a great part of the materials from the plan of the right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham), and he was free to own, that in some instances that might be the case. He was by no means ashamed of borrowing any idea from the right hon. gent., as he was extremely desirous to give the country every possible advantage which it could derive from the talents of the right hon.
117116115Lord Castlereagh
105 was happy to find that the only substantial objection that could be urged against the bill was removed by the amendments proposed by the noble lord this night. He had been always a decided friend to the volunteer system. He was sorry the volunteers were not engaged for the war, as they might have been at its commencement. It remained now to apply the best remedy to the error then committed; and this measure was the remedy most efficacious, as it would go directly to make up for the falling off that must take place in a pure volunteer force after the urgency of the immediate call for their service should have ceased to operate with
105Mr. J. Smith
 (of Kerry) saw nothing exceptionable in the bill, which he had read over with attention. The magnitude of the dangers with which the country was threatened required the exertion of all the powers of the empire for our defence; and this measure contained no more severity than the time required. The noble lord had made one material omission, which, however, might yet be remedied. The empire was indebted to the noble lord for the great measure of the Union; but that great measure was still imperfect, while there was not an unity of defensive force between the united kingdoms. It would be a measure worthy of the noble lord who had combated in the foremost ranks to effect the Union, to remedy that imperfection, and to render the great work complete. The hardship of the more distant removal from home would be reconciled by the urgency of the case, and would be but an addition to the alterations and improvements that had already been made on the original constitution of the militia. He was anxious that the bill should go to a committee, and hoped that the amendment he suggested would be made in that stage.Mr. Herbert
108107106 agreed that the noble lord was the fittest person to originate such a measure as that now before the house. But the hon. gent, who spoke last, did not seem aware of what that measure would subject the country to. In former times, when the army was so composed that it could not be kept in order without extreme severity, it might have been right to enact and to enforce that military code, the penalties of which were now the exclusive disgrace of the British army and the British nation. But at the present time, when so great an amelioration had taken place in the discipline and composition of our military force, it was no longer excusable to continue those penal enactments; and, certainly, he should pause before he would give his consent to commit the whole people of England to what was dishonourable, and pernicious to the army itself. He had no objection to a conscription, in the full force of the word. He could never consider it a hardship on a man to be called upon to defend his home and his coun-
108107106Sir Francis Burdett
109tollendi.laudandi, ornandi could easily remove the difficulty which the hon. gentleman had, of conceiving how any thing that would give patronage could be unpopular. Measures of taxation, for instance, were extremely unpopular, yet no measures were attended with more extensive patronage in the appointment of collectors, &c.; and even that patronage was felt as one of the greatest hardships annexed to them. His hon. friend behind him (Mr. Herbert) had complimented the noble lord opposite on his gallantry in fighting in the foremost ranks for the Union, and conquering the opponents of that measure. His hon. friend ought, however, to have recollected, that one of the greatest conquerors of antiquity asserted, that he would take any town into which he could get room for an ass laden with gold to enter. That this was the sort of agency employed in the conquest for which his hon. friend gave the noble lord so much credit, he had the authority of the Irish chancellor of the exchequer for believing. It was strange that the noble lord, who was formerly foremost in defence of the Volunteers, and who for that purpose imputed expressions to his right hon. friend which he had never made use of, should now bring forward a measure which went to absorb them altogether. For if that was not the object of the present measure, he could not see what it was good for. The noble lord regarded the Volunteers as an ancient orator did a great but dangerous political character of his time: 109tollendi.laudandi, ornandiMr. Whitbread
102 expressed his hope that in the committee the noble lord would introduce some clause to remedy the gross injustice suffered by those who were serving by substitute in the army of reserve, and had since been ballotted into the militia, and obliged to serve in person. There were several who had expended the fruits of all their earnings in providing a substitute in the army of reserve, at the expence of forty or fifty guineas, and who having afterwards been drawn for the militia, had not the means of procuring another substitute, and were consequently obliged to
102Mr. Whitbread
104103 could not let this bill pass, even in this stage, or in any other, without entering his decided protest against its objects. It was remarkable enough, that in these times, when changes of ministry were so frequent, that every successive change was the parent of a new military system. Whatever might have been the merit of other systems, he could see in this neither an accession of strength to the country, nor of advantage to the army. Its only object seemed to be art increase of influence to ministers, unnecessary and unmerited. Little, indeed, did it consider the dignity or the comfort of the soldiery! To the system produced last year, he had the pleasure to give his unqualified approbation. It gave no influence to government; it flung no disgrace
104103Colonel Shipley
111110 began with lamenting that the country did not seem awake to the perils by which it was surrounded. Neither in nor out of parliament could he find that there was a sense adequate to the greatness of the dangers which impended
111110Mr. Wilberforce
114113112 vindicated himself and his friends from the imputation of under-rating the danger of invasion. He could, however, remember a period of danger, the year 1798, when the hon. gent, who brought the charge (Mr. Wilberforce) had been mainly instrumental in forcing on the minister at that time (Mr. Pitt) a measure which put the government of this country in a course entirely new, and to which the
114113112Mr. Windham
 said, there never was a period in the history of this country, wherein any man could have a better opportunity to immortalize his name than by the establishment of an efficient system of defence and security, menaced as we were by the combined hostilities of united Europe, urged on by the ambition and resentments of a too successful and implacable foe. He clearly saw that the object of the noble lord in the present bill was to repair that breach in the national strength, occasioned by a decay in the volunteering spirit of the people, by which he was compelled to the necessity of adopting the only means of organizing the whole physical strength of the country, namely, that of raising a force by ballot. It was very possible the bill might not be every thing which could be wished; but he approved of the principle; and if nothing better could be offered, he should give this bill his support. It was possible in the committee to make many amendments, and supply any defects which the bill in its present form might probably present.Sir James Hall
 vindicated the military code of this country, which he pronounced to be the most lenient in Europe. It had been contended that the present plan was unpopular, and calculated to increase the influence of ministers: this he thought a contradiction in terms. He could not understand how a measure could give ministers influence, and be at the same time unpopular.Colonel Wood
 was unwilling, even in that early stage of the business, to let the present question pass without stating his objection to the principle. In the first place, there was no analogy whatever between those Judges and the Judges in England or Ireland, as the latter went circuit, and had, after discharging the business in their respective courts in the metropolis, to go through a weighty provincial duty; whereas, the former had not employment for two thirds of the year, and had no circuits to attend; the duties of the barons of the exchequer were not only very easy, and such as almost any man might perform, but also very light. He could not, under such circumstances, consent to any addition to the burthens of the people, so much burdened already, by compensation so unmerited and uncalled for.Mr. Abercromby
 of Scotland, though be admitted that the duties of the exchequer barons was not heavy, still thought that Scotland had a right to expect that the liberality of this country would not deny to a supreme court of judicature in Scotland what they had already given to their own. He thought too, that the less the barons had to do, the less temptation they would have to retire from such light duty, and that consequently the public money would be the less encroached upon.The Lord Advocate
118 was anxious, that those who should have properly executed the laborious and important duty of administering justice should be liberally rewarded; and if the like laborious duties attached to the barons of the exchequer in Scotland as to those of England, there could be no reason why they should not have the same advantages of retirement. But the point was, that the judicial duties of the barons of the exchequer in Scotland were nothing; and their ministerial duties
118Mr. H. Martin
 of Scotland supported the proposed provision generally. The paucity of the causes that were tried by the barons of the exchequer, was a proof of their beneficial arrangements in the collection of the revenue. The act of union, and subsequent acts, guaranteed and sanctioned that court; why, then, should it be excluded from the benefit of the general arrangement, the principle of which was universally approved of. Why should this exclusion be made at a time when, from the increase of the revenue, the business of the court of exchequer was every day extending, and when the court of exchequer passed all the public accounts of Scotland, even to those of the militia?The Solicitor-General
 allowed there was no principle better than that of rewarding meritorious public servants, and particularly those concerned in the administration of justice. But a balance should always be held, in order that the public should pay neither too much nor too little. He thought it would be best in this case to await the returns, which by shewing the service done by the court of Exchequer in Scotland, would best direct the house, as to the proper extent of recompense. If this should not be done, he must oppose the provision, so far as regarded the barons of the Scotch Exchequer.Mr. Whitbread
 thought it would have an injurious effect on the characters of the present barons of the Exchequer of Scotland, and that it would prevent persons of respectable professional character from coming into that court in future, if an invidious exclusion should be made in the arrangement of the general provision. The extensive nature of their general functions, and their able external administration of the revenue, compensated for the paucity of the causes tried by them, of which paucity, the ability of their external administration of the revenue was, in fact, the cause.Mr. Rose
 contended, that it was not unfair to apportion public remuneration to the amount of public service, and for that purpose, to examine the particular nature and extent of the service was not invidious. It was proper to pause and inquire, before those who did much service and those who did little, were lumped in one general provision.Mr. Macdonald
119 enlarged on the extensive duties performed by the Barons of the
119Mr. R. Dundas
 thought it impossible for the house, after what had passed, not to hesitate before it granted pensions to persons in the situation of the Barons of Exchequer in Scotland, who, it appeared, were not men who had quitted great professional practice and emolument to become Judges, but were, generally speaking, men to whom it would, from their former habits of life, be an object, on account even of the emolument, to be appointed to such an office. But still, he could not agree with the doctrine that it was expedient that Judges should be allowed to retire on their salaries, or rather with pensions, after a certain number of years service. Why was not a Judge sufficiently recompenced for the discharge of his judicial functions at the time he performed them? If he was not so, he wished to know why that was not the case, and why adequate provisions against the ordinary chances of declining years or health were not made in their annual salary? He could easily see how, from the adoption of a contrary practice, abuses might creep in. If at one time, a good ground for granting a pension of this kind chanced to occur, that would, on every future occasion, be esteemed sufficient, even where there was no propriety whatever in the grant. He often heard gentlemen on the ministerial side of the house call upon those on the side on which he sat for parliamentary grounds, for any proposition submitted by them. He did not see that there was any such ground for the proposed measure, and he should not do his duty if he did not oppose it. He protested against the idea of liberality, when such liberality was to be shewn by grants out of other people's pockets.Sir F. Burdett
 supported the motion for going into a committee, and Dr. Laurence opposed it; when the house divided,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. objected that the crown had already a sufficiency of funds in its hands for carrying into execution the measure now proposed. He thought it would have the effect of liberating too great a fund of patronage to the crown, independant of the pensions which already existed. Perhaps it was not generally known, that in Scotland, during his present majesty's reign, the pension-list had been increased eight-fold. There was no limit to it as there was to the pension-list in England. It was, indeed, unlimited, and was only bounded by the surplus revenue. He was, therefore, of opinion, that the house should stop till it saw whether this additional power was required to be granted to the crown. As to the barons of exchequer, they seemed to him to be rather a board of revenue than of justice, and for the remuneration of revenue officers, there were unquestionably already sufficient funds in the hands of the crown. The honourable member stated afterwards the amount of pensions in Scotland to be at present upwards of 40,000l.l.Mr. Bankes
121l. opposed the motion, as his objection to the bill was radical, and was not confined to any of its provisions. He understood that the sum to be produced by it, and to accrue to the Consolidated Fund, in consequence, was about 100,000121l.Mr. Biddulph
l.l. shewed, that if those Revenues had been applied as wished for by the hon. gent. a deficiency must then be occasioned in the Civil List, which it would become necessary for parliament to make good. In the amount also, the hon. gent. must be very much mistaken. So far from amounting to 100,000l.l.Mr. Rose
l. held in his hand the Accounts moved for by the hon. gent, by which it appeared, that since 1797, they amounted only to 30,614l.Mr. Huskisson
 declared, that the Account which had been laid on the table of the house in consequence of his motion, was a very imperfect one, and complained of the difficulty which he experienced in obtaining satisfactory documents on this subject.—The house then divided on the question that the Speaker do leave the chair:Mr. Biddulph
l. brought up the report, of the Committee of Supply, relative to the grant of 9,250l.Mr. Wharton
 lamented the secret influence by which the measures of the government were defeated, and the interests of the country sacrificed. Even the cabinet could not be agreed upon this reduction. Neither the duke of Portland, lord Camden, a right hon. secretary, not then in his place, nor a noble lord high in his majesty's councils, who was also absent, could have concurred in this proceeding. If any one duty was more imperious than another upon that house, it was that of providing for the education of the great body of his majesty's subjects in Ireland.Mr. C. Wynne
124l. disclaimed the odious principle of intolerance. The memorial of the Catholics which led to the establishment at Maynooth, claimed no pecuniary aid. The Catholics promised to defray the whole expence themselves, and though the government and parliament gave them 8000124l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 (of Kerry) was of opinion that, in the present circumstances, curtailing the former grant to the Irish catholic seminary was one of the most impolitic measures that could be devised.Mr. Herbert
 supported the grant of the larger sum.Lord Porchester
l.l.;126 did not wish to take up the time of the house; but, at the same time, it was impossible not to notice what had fallen from the chancellor of the exchequer. No person was indeed better
l.l.;126Mr. Ponsonby
 read the oath of the catholic priests, in order to shew that they paid an obedience to the pope, which was inconsistent with the king's supremacy. The provisions for the education of the established clergy, fell short of those proposed to be granted for the priests at Maynooth. There were in the University of Dublin, 30 poor scholars, who got but a dinner once a day; and 72 scholars of the house that got a dinner once a day, and no lodgings. He described the catholics as bad subjects and hostile to the state.Dr. Duigenan
 repeated his former sentiments. He declared, that if any one would move to withdraw the public aid altogether from Maynooth, he would second the motion.Dr. Duigenan
 did not believe the order to that effect had gone over.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, that the freedom of debate did not preclude such language.The Speaker
 was not surprised that the right hon. gent. was so indignant at the imputation of secret influence, when it was so well known that the present administration was formed on principles particularly repugnant, to that sort of influence! The proceedings with respect to a late measure (the Reversion bill) were fully illustrative of this point. The absence of the right hon. gent.'s colleagues on the present occasion, was probably owing to a sort of compromise which did not yield obedience to such influence, nor yet decidedly resist its interposition. The money which was the subject of the present debate, was in amount little to give, but was every thing to refuse. It was not a fourth part of what within the last 24 hours had been voted for a more ample provision for the Scotch judges, a provision very proper where service had been done to give a claim to it, but in his opinion, not so proper where there had been no service. The principle of the education of the Catholic clergy had received the countenance of the nominal head of the present administration, who, if he preserved a shred of any principle, was bound to support it now. It had also received the countenance of lord Westmoreland and lord Camden, both members of the present cabinet, when in the situation of lords lieutenant of Ireland. It had been sanctioned by the revered lord Cornwallis, the respected lord Hardwicke, and the late chief governor of Ireland.Lord H. Petty
 was sure the right hon. gent. would not quibble with him on this point. It was nothing to say the order was not gone; did the right hon. gent, believe it would go?Mr. Tierney
 wished simply to ask the right hon. gent. opposite, whether the learned gentleman who had been alluded to was of the Privy Council of Ireland, or was about to be?Mr. Tierney
128 was sorry to see gentlemen enter so largely into an attack on the religion of one-fifth of the subjects of these kingdoms. He believed they spoke in the sincerity of their hearts, and from the purest motives; but these would produce consequences deadly to the interests of this country, and advantageous to France. To discourage the education of the catholic
128Mr. Grattan
 stated in reply, that when he had asserted in a former debate, that the Catholics had originally proposed to support this institution, he had done so on the authority of their original memorial to government, a copy of which had been furnished him by Dr. Troy. This memorial was dated the 14th of Jan. 1794, and shewed that the object in the contemplation of the Catholics at that time was to be permitted to establish the institution with their own funds.Sir A. Wellesley
 had no hesitation to say, that the lord lieutenant had recommended that the learned gent. should be made a member of the privy council; and the reason of that recommendation was, that the learned gent.'s presence was absolutely necessary for the dispatch of the ecclesiastical affairs, which were so considerable n part of the business of the Privy Council.Sir A. Wellesley
 expressed his abhorrence of the language used by Dr. Duigenan, declaring that never words were uttered so dangerous, abominable, and false; or so likely to separate the kingdom and to deluge it in blood. Of the religion of the
Mr. Barham
 to order, objected to the use of such language in speaking of 4,000,000 of his majesty's subjects.Mr. Barham
l. contended, that the present was not a question of toleration or of bigotry, but of pure legislation. It was only by conferring benefits upon the Roman-catholics that their affections could be gained, and that they could be rendered good and loyal subjects. In this view he considered it as highly impolitic to sacrifice so important an object for a consideration so extremely inconsiderable as 3,000l.Mr. Laing
123 expressed his astonishment, that the hon. general who came forward as minister for Ireland, should be more ignorant of its situation than an humble individual like himself. He could tell that hon. member, that the private seminaries were only preparatory schools for the college of Maynooth. He had been within the last ten days at Maynooth, and he could assure the house, that unless the whole of last year's grant should be voted, the buildings upon which former grants had been expended, would fall. There was no lead on the roofs, and the rain penetrated through them. He declared himself to be a supporter of the Catholics, and having lived on terms of intimacy with the people of the South of Ireland for several years past, he could declare for them also. The hon. colonel then alluded to the offer made by order of Buonaparte, to induce Irish Students to go for education to France from Lisbon and Ireland, upon a promise of a restoration of all the Irish bourses, and read an extract from the answer of the Irish Catholic Bishops, stating their gratitude to the government for the liberal support of Maynooth, and denouncing suspension against any functionaries, and exclusion from preferment in Ireland against any students, who should accept the offers of the enemy of their country. Would any one say after that, that the Catholics were not to be confided in? If they were not to be trusted, why not dismiss them from the army and navy? Why allow them to vote at elections? Why had lord Westmoreland come down to the Irish parliament
123Colonel Montagu Mathew
127 adverted to one or two of the general objections which Protestants have to the Catholic faith; but only so far as was necessary to repel some harsh attacks of the opposition speakers, and support his declared opinion that we could not, as members of a Protestant communion, consistently or conscientiously educate clergymen for the Catholic Church, a ground on which he would have opposed that particular mode of assisting the Catholics of Ireland, if the question of founding the Maynooth College were then before the house, and on the same principle felt himself bound to oppose the further, and as he conceived, needless extension of that establishment. He was sure that the feelings of sincere and pious Papists would revolt at the idea of educating, at their own charge, clergymen for the Church of England, to propagate what they deemed heretical doctrines; and sincere Protestants, who regarded the distinguishing tenets and rites of the church of Rome as corruptions of Christianity, were bound on the same principle, not to be directly
127Mr. Stephens
 could not help congratulating the councils of his majesty, and the British empire, on the wisdom and liberality they were likely to acquire in the person of the learned gent, who had just sat down, and who, if report spoke correctly, was about to assume the title of 'right honourable.' If ever there was a mark of wisdom in the councils of any country, it was to be found in this latter circumstance, joined to the refusal of the higher grant now moved for. Ministers were now about to recommend to his majesty to take into his councils a gentleman, who told that house that four millions of his majesty's subjects were hostile to his government, and would, in case of emergency, be its bitterest enemies. He called on the hon. gent. (Mr. Wilberforce), to say where was now the liberality of which the government had to boast; and he appealed to him, whether the language of the gentleman alluded to, was not most vilifying and disgraceful?Mr. W. Smith
125 considered the present as a subject of considerable delicacy, and the difficulties arising out of the subject itself were not a little aggravated by the manner in which it had been discussed, and which tended to produce irritation rather than conciliation. He should have expected something better from the patriotism of the noble lord, and of those with whom he acted, and it was not without very great pain that he had heard the mode of argument to which they had this evening resorted. Toleration, he said, as explained both by Mr. Locke and Rousseau, was to leave to others the right of professing and teaching their own religious principles in their own way, as far as was compatible with the peace and security of society,
125Mr. Wilberforce
122 contended that the reduction of the grant of last year was calculated to irritate the great body of the Catholics, and particularly to alienate the priests, whose influence had been so much talked of. The question now was, whether the priests should be educated or uneducated, for priests would be at all events found. The reason why the Roman Catholic nobility and gentry did not educate their sons for the priesthood was, because it afforded them neither prospects of honours or emolument. When he looked to the situation of the empire and of Europe, when he considered the exclusion of the Catholics from education on the continent
122Sir J. Newport
 doubted his hon. colleague's practical regard for toleration, when he recollected his opposition to a bill to enable dissenters to hold commissions in his majesty's service. He was as warm a friend to the protestant religion as his hon. colleague; but it was because he was a friend to protestantism that he wished to enlighten the catholics; for this was the most likely means of gaining them over to the protestant faith.Lord Milton
 was glad that his hon. friend had brought this question before the house, and should give his support to the motion.Lord Folkestone
 thought that his hon. friend had been harshly treated. Without meaning any personality, and disclaiming any intention of disrespect to any member of the committee, his hon. friend had alluded to the general unfitness, which arose from his immediate interest. But, certainly the imputation ought not to have been met by
Mr.F W. Smith
 defended the character of the committee for impartiality, and had no objection to the production of the accounts, because he was convinced that they would convey a very favourable impression of the state of the company's affairs. He deprecated, however, all discussion upon the subject before the committee made their report, not only as premature, but uncandid. As far as regarded his own conduct, he expressed a hope, that as a member of that committee, as well as in every other situation, his conduct would be guided by a principle of integrity and uprightness.Mr. Grant
 declared, that in suggesting the persons who formed the committee on Indian affairs, he had nothing in view but to propose those who, from their knowledge of the subject, were most likely to give satisfactory information to the committee. He was sorry the hon. gent. had
not objected to them at the time they were appointed. He confessed he did not see what progress could have been made in the inquiry without the assistance of the very persons alluded to. He was certain the hon. gent. would admit that no information in the power of the directors to procure had been withheld. The paper, however, which the hon. member first moved for, was one which must, in the course of a few days, come before the house, under the act of parliament. The committee was in the course of preparing a report, which would be submitted to the house along with every document necessary. There was no ground for supposing that the report would not be made, or that the house would be called on to grant any loan without having the requisite evidence before them in the first place. The motion was therefore premature, if not altogether unnecessary. He thought it was not perfectly candid of the hon. gent. to insinuate that any of the members of the committee would be induced from interested motives to make a report they would not otherwise have made. To shew that they were above all suspicion, he read the names of the committee, and concluded by moving the previous question.Mr. R. Dundas
 vindicated the position of his hon. friend relative to the constitution of the committee, and contended, that without meaning any personality or disrespect to any individual of which it was composed, it was perfectly competent to him to state any legal disqualification for their serving on such a committee.Dr. Laurence
 had seen no reason to complain of a disposition on the part of those connected with the Company, to withhold any information that was necessary to guide the inquiries and decision of the committee.Mr. Patteson
 foretold that the East India Company would again apply next year to parliament for a loan, that the year after a similar application would be made, and that there was no probability of any loan that was granted ever being repaid. Upon this ground, he contended that it was highly expedient that the public should be made thoroughly acquainted with the real state of their affairs. He should not, however, press the question to a division, if the sense of the house appeared to be against him.—After some farther conversation, the motions were withdrawn, as was likewise the previous question.Mr. Creevey
l.,130lll.,ll129l rose, agreeably to notice, to move for certain papers to elucidate the real state of the Affairs of the East India Company. He said, he should shortly state his reasons for making the motions with which it was his intention to conclude. Last year a petition had been presented for leave to borrow two millions on bonds, and about a fortnight ago a petition was presented asking a loan of the public money to the extent of 1,200,000l.,130lll.,ll129lMr. Creevey
 considered that the papers wanted would necessarily come under consideration when the committee should have made its report, and therefore, that the motion was premature.Mr. Wallace
 vindicated, at some length, the conduct of the committee; he said as to himself, the situation which he held did by no means incapacitate him from judging and deciding fairly any question concerning the solvency or insolvency of the East India Company: his situation did not depend upon them, and his income was solely derived from the India revenue.Sir J. Anstruther
 thought that if the house had never adopted a rule to prevent this practice, they ought to do so. Nothing could be more injurious to debate, or more replete with absurdity, for what would be the consequence if—Mr. Ponsonby
 spoke to order, observing, that it was one thing to state what the order of the house at present was, and another to consider what it would be expedient to make it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that if the hon. gent. persisted in reading a document not formally before the house, he should move an adjournment of the debate.Mr. Ponsonby
l.131l. in rising to move for certain papers relative to the hereditary revenue of the crown, stated his object to be the correction of a number of errors into which an hon. gent. who proposed to make this revenue the subject of a financial arrangement for the year (Mr. Biddulph) had fallen. That hon. gent, had stated, that the crown lands were let for only 50,000l.131l.Mr. Rose,
 was not aware of any official objection to the motion, but he thought it would be but fair to the gallant admiral with whose conduct the paper was connected, to allow him every opportunity of elucidating the circumstances as far as he was concerned.Mr. R. Ward
 thought that some satisfactory reason ought to have been assigned for the production of this paper. He complimented admiral Duckworth in high terms, and expressed a wish that it had fallen to his lot to pass the Dardanelles in the same circumstances with admiral Duckworth, as he certainly should have considered it as a feather in his cap as long as he lived. If the hon. gent. wished for information, he was surprized that he had not moved for a copy of the admiral's, and not of the captain's, Log-book.Admiral Harvey
132 said, that it was notorious that the expedition to the Dardanelles had failed of its object, and as had been given out, from the state of the winds and currents. It was of importance, then, that that house should know what really was the state of the winds and currents at the time; which could only be done in a satisfactory way, by the production of one of the captain's log-books who was employed on the expedition. It was extremely desirable that the house should know whether the expedition failed from misconduct or from unavoidable causes;
132Colonel Wood
 said a few words in favour of the motion.Mr. W. Taylor
 was of opinion, that sufficient reasons had not been given for the production of the paper; at any rate, he did not see why the log-book of the Royal George should be particularly singled out; and if information was wanted, why all the log-books of the squadron were not called for.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had no objection whatever to the production of the log-books of all the ships.Colonel Wood
 professed to entertain the highest respect for the character of admiral Duckworth, but he did not consider the splendid achievements of that gallant officer as a bar to any investigation into the causes of the failure of the expedition to the Dardanelles. He should therefore vote for the production of the paper.Mr. Whitbread
 contended, that if it was meant to impute any blame to admiral Duckworth, either directly or indirectly, it would be but fair that he should have timely notice of such an intention. He likewise took this opportunity of observing, that, in his opinion, the question which stood for discussion on this evening, ought not to have been brought on in the absence of sir R. Strachan, or of some person qualified and authorized to defend his conduct, as far as it might be implicated in the question.Sir C. Pole
 was also of opinion, that if there was an intention of imputing blame to admiral Duckworth, ample notice should be given, for the purpose of allowing the gallant admiral sufficient time to take measures for the vindication of his honour and character. As to what had fallen from the honourable admiral who spoke last, respecting sir Rd. Strachan, he must observe that it was not the intention of the hon. gent. who had given notice of a motion on this evening, to impute the least degree of blame to that gallant officer. He meant, as he understood his intention, to bring forward a charge in a manly way against the admiralty board; and certainly, in defending the conduct of that board, he should not throw the smallest censure upon the conduct of that excellent and meritorious officer.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 withdrew his motion for the present evening, with the intention of bringing it forward on this day se'nnight.Colonel Wood
139 observed, that the Resolution went to say that sir R. Strachan's squadron was not supplied with provisions, and that was proved by the documents on the table, beyond a question. It had been said, that sir Richard had never left his station on account of the want of provisions. A letter from him, dated the 21st of Nov., says, 'The wind having veered to the Northward, he stretched out to sea to try to meet some of the transports that he had expected.' Why proceed to sea, in an uncertain pursuit, to look after transports, if not in want of provisions? and if he did proceed to sea, he must have gone off his station. The letter of sir Richard, upon which the hon. gentlemen prided themselves so much, contained not a particle of any thing that could support them. Sir Richard had written several letters to his commanding officer, lord Gardner, stating the situation of the squadron, and its want of provisions; but finding the supplies did not come, he wrote to the Board of Admiralty. The consequence was, he received a supply; and this boasted prize, this letter, commending the board, went just so far as to say, he thanked them for the attention they had paid to his communication. Did this exculpate them? Did he say any thing about what had been the situation of the fleet? No: but look to his letter of the 23d of Jan., four days after the French had got out, and what does he say, after all the boasted supplies reached him? 'That if his provision and water would last him, he would follow the enemy over the world.' A blockading squadron ought to have pro-
139Mr. G. Ponsonby
 said, that certainly much had lately passed upon this subject in the house. He did not however feel authorized to state that any precise or positive rule of order existed, with regard to it. It appeared to him to rest wholly with the discretion of the house, who would of course pronounce their judgment according to the circumstances of the case.The Speaker
 spoke to order. He observed that all the papers moved for by his hon. friend, and all the papers moved for in justification of their conduct by the gentlemen opposite, were on the table. He conceived it would be productive of great inconvenience were the practice to be continued of allowing a member to draw from his pocket a paper, not regularly before the house, and to read from it such portions as he might think conducive to his object.Mr. Tierney
134133 in rising to Tiring forward the motion of which he had given notice, began with professing, that nothing was more distant from his intention than to throw out the slightest reflection upon the conduct of sir Rd. Strachan, for whose character, both as a naval officer and a man, he entertained the highest veneration: and nothing which had fallen from the hon. baronet (sir C. Pole) went to impute to him any such intention. All that that hon. baronet had said, was, that the testimony of sir Rd. Strachan would be very material in guiding the decision of the house upon the question, which he was now bringing before it, and in this he perfectly agreed with him. For example, there was one paper that had been moved for, for the purpose of shewing the reasons which made it necessary for sir Rd. Strachan to quit his station before the port of Rochfort, prior to the sailing of the French squadron from that port in Jan. last. He understood that no such communication had been received at the admiralty, and therefore there remained a chasm in the evidence, which it would have been most desirable to supply by the evidence of the gallant admiral himself, could he have been called to give such evidence at the bar of the house. He had also good reason to believe, that sir Rd. Strachan had found it necessary to take water and provisions from the Ferrol squadron; but there was no evidence to this effect in the papers which were on the table of the house; and as the admiral was not present to be examined as to the truth of the fact, he should leave this circumstance out of the charge that he meant to bring forward. The charge, limited as it was, he did not bring forward upon trivial or light grounds. It was important that its merits should be fairly and fully investigated, both for the interests of the public service and for the honour of the admiralty. When the gentlemen belonging to this department of government talked of a squadron being victualled for two or three months, if they meant any thing at all, they must mean that the squadron was in a state capable of serving all the purposes to which it might be, called. When a squadron was employed in a blockading service, it was necessary, not only that it should be in a condition to keep its station, but as its utmost vigilance did not at all times suffice to prevent the enemy's fleet from putting to sea, it ought also to
134133Mr. Calcraft,
 stated, that the general plan pursued by every Admiralty, was to keep a sufficient, force off every blockaded port, adequately equipped and provisioned to watch the force of the enemy. The mode of relieving these squadrons was by sending out vessels, ship by ship, provided, not only with their own equipments, but loaded also for the equipment of others. The commander in chief of the Channel Fleet was the person to see that they were properly victualled, and regularly relieved, and he corresponded for that purpose with the port admiral at Portsmouth and Plymouth. Every page of the papers shewed that lord Gardner had acted in that manner. It might happen, however, that this plan of blockade, during a naval campaign, might, under the pressure of more important objects, be altogether suspended. At the time to which the papers referred, the expedition to Copenhagen, and the return of the fleet and the prizes, had occupied much of the attention of the Admiralty. Squadrons were also provided to blockade the Tagus, and to convey the Royal Family of Portugal to the Brazils. Another squadron was also assembled at Spithead, of sufficient force to meet the Russian fleet then expected to come up the Channel. He called upon the gentlemen opposite, who were disposed to be fair, to give credit to the letter of sir Rd. Strachan, declaring his approbation of the attention of the Admiralty to his squadron. It appeared by the papers, that, in November, the squadron had ten weeks provisions on board, and that 18 days after, ten transports, one of which was immediately driven back, and only four of which were able to reach their destination, had been sent out with 700 ton of water to the squadron. The large ship was sent out with a temporary supply only, and he admitted that the Admiralty was answerable for every thing up to 21st of December, at which date the squadron had six weeks water, six weeks and four days bread, and eight or nine weeks beef, pork, and wine. It might be a question why the Mediator had not sailed till the 6th of Jan.; but he shewed from the letters from admiral Young, that the weather alone prevented her sailing, and he was confident the hon. gent. would not question the authority of that, gallant officer. He denied most positively, and challenged any gentleman to prove, that sir Rd. Strachan had for a single moment, left his station. The hon. bart. had fallen into an error, when he asserted, that the Admiralty was blamable for not sending out the supplies earlier. They could not contend with the elements,
Mr. R. Ward
 rose and said, that as the hon. gent, had thought proper to move a series of Resolutions without at present following them up with any thing expressive of the object avowed, he should feel it his duty to move the previous question upon the first Resolution. He was, he confessed, not a little surprised to hear that object still avowed by the hon. gent., after his having perused the papers that had been laid upon the table of the house, because he thought that those papers must impress the mind of every candid man with a conviction of the zeal, vigilance, and activity, of the present board of admiralty. The hon. gent, had brought two most serious charges against the board; one was, that the board paid no attention whatever to the repeated and earnest requisitions of the several commanders of the blockading squadrons, complaining of want of provisions, and requiring relief and supply. The other was, that sir R. Strachan had been compelled to abandon his station off Rochfort, in consequence of want of provisions. Here he would observe, that the rendezvous appointed by the admiralty for sir R. Strachan's squadron in case of their being dispersed by bad weather, was off the Chasseron light-house. He
Mr. Wellesley Pole
versus136135 then said, that he should be sorry to persist in any thing unpleasant to the house, and should not press doing what might be offensive to the gentlemen opposite. He would therefore not read the letter, but content himself with stating the substance of that letter, and let the house give it whatever credit it thought due to his character. He would then take upon himself to assert, that sir
versus136135Mr. Wellesley Pole
138137 totally differed from the hon. gent, who had just sat down, both as to the facts themselves, and the inferences which he drew from them: he read extracts from many different letters on the table, by which he shewed that the fleet off Rochfort were very badly provided, and could not have followed the enemy move than three or four days. The power of dispatching ships to relieve sir R. Strachan, it was plain, was not vested in lord Gardner; else he surely would not have sent off five different and anxious letters to the admiralty on the subject. He read extracts from a letter, dated 11th of Dec. stating to the admiralty the distress of the fleet, which letter was answered by the admiralty on the 18th, sending a supply of provisions in one victualling ship: although this ship was intended for the supply of three squadrons, namely, that off L' Orient, off Ferrol, and Rochefort, yet she did not convey more than equal to sixteen days bread, for the line of battle ships off Rochefort alone. He said, if every pound of bread, which had been so sent, had been received by the Rochefort fleet alone, it would not have put it in a situation to follow the enemy. Such inattention on the part of the admiralty was the greatest blow England could receive, as it would be the greatest triumph the enemy could obtain. That day was perilous to us indeed, when we found ourselves unable to furnish 7 sail of the line sufficiently to keep their stations. He could not conceive what was meant by sending one store-ship out to supply such a fleet with bread, wine, and water. He could not foretel what would be the decision of the house, but he knew well what would be the sense of the country on such conduct: the house might divide three to one in its favour, but the nation would not be a whit the more convinced. He then read an extract from a letter to the board of admiralty, dated the 15th Dec. in which it was declared, that the fleet was in total want both of sails, water, and every other necessary with which a fleet should be provided. In consequence of such a situation, sir Richard Strachan was compelled to quit his anchorage, to look out for victuallers; what was the event? The enemy, taking the advantage of his absence, escaped out of Rochefort, which they never could have done,
138137Sir Charles Pole
 supported the bill, as a measure that was best adapted to the welfare of the church.The Solicitor General
141R. presented the following Message from the king:141R.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. questioned the accuracy of some of the hon. gent.'s statements, and denied that the present amount of the demised crown revenues exceeded 35,000l.l.Mr. Rose
142 argued against the bill, on the ground that while it violated the
142Lord Porchester
 argued, that there was danger in almost every view in which the measure in question could be taken.Dr. Laurence
l. in pursuance of his notice, moved for a committee to consider how far the provisions of the act of the 1st of his present majesty, by which it had been directed, that the Demised Revenues of the Crown should be carried into and made a part of the Aggregate Fund, had been complied with. The hon. gent, entered into a long explanation of the subject. He repeated his former assertions with regard to the value of these revenues, which he estimated at 200,000l.Mr. Biddulph,
 would vote for the bill being committed. The only objection he had to it was that it did not go far enough.—The house then divided upon lord Porchester's amendment. Ayes, 11; Noes, 94; Majority, 83.Mr. Whitbread
 had carefully applied himself to the examination of the bill, and the result was that he thought it very injudicious, very pernicious in point of principle, and inefficient as to any good practical purpose. He remarked, that two views were entertained of the nature of church property; the one was, that it was inviolable, like private property; the other, that it was merely to be considered in the nature of a salary for a particular duty, and that the legislature might interfere with it and alter it with as little ceremony as the salaries of any public office. He thought that neither of these two propositions was just in its full extent. He was disposed to concur in the theory of the right hon. gent., that it was inviolable like private property; but that the legislature had a right to interfere, so far as to provide that the duties attached to it were performed. But then he asserted, that the meddling with this property, in the manner proposed by the bill, was dangerous to the church establishment; for the bill seemed to be founded on the principle maintained by those who held that all those clergymen, who were not employed in parish duties, were useless members of that establishment. The law allowed pluralities. Clergymen, therefore, could not always reside on their livings; and attaching penalties to that which the law permitted, he contended, was unjust. It also seemed to proceed on the supposition, that the number of curates was limited. This was not the case; and the augmenting a few curacies would only bring a greater number into holy orders, and by that means increase the distress of the whole. On the whole, the bill went to a dangerous violation of church property, without any chance of improving the general condition of the curates.Mr. Windham
 rose. He had expected to hear some reason offered for an appointment likely to be attended with so much mischief. The necessity of the presence of the learned doctor for the dispatch of ecclesiastical business in the privy council, which was alledged the other night, was a mere empty excuse, for the privy council of Ireland exercised no ecclesiastical jurisdiction whatsoever. He looked upon this appointment as precisely similar in motive and effect to the appointment of Mr. Giffard. When the Catholics were not encouraged to hope for all the rights to which he and many others thought them entitled, at least care ought to be taken to avoid what would have the appearance of studiously irritating and insulting them.Mr. C. Wynne
 maintained that whoever charged the Roman Catholics with being-bad subjects, libelled and belied them: but to call in question any appointment for language made use of in parliament, however indiscreet, was at once to interfere with the prerogative of the crown, and the first privilege of parliament, freedom of speech.Mr. Beresford
 rose, amidst a loud cry of! 'question! question!' He said, from the turn the debate had taken on the other side of the house he should wish for some little information. He was anxious to know how far they meant to carry their intolerance? Hitherto they had been debating how far the disabilities of the Catholics were to be taken off. The house was now discussing how far a learned gentleman, who had expressed an ardent opinion in favour of the Protestant religion, was unfit for a situation of trust and honour. Instead of removing the Catholic disabilities, the gentlemen opposite called upon the house to degrade a man for using strong language in favour of his religion If this was their religious toleration, he was afraid it might degenerate into religious apathy and indifference.Mr. Lockhart
143 rose, not to object to the Resolution, for he concurred entirely in the sum proposed. That house, he was sure, would, at all times, be ready to shew its attachment to his majesty's person and family. It was on that ground alone, and not in consequence of any circumstances that attended the death of the duke of
143Mr. Whitbread
 highly approved of the grant, and trusted the house would always recollect that the princess was an Englishwoman, in addition to whatever claims she might have to their regard.Lord Morpeth
 approved of the grant, and affirmed that the duke of Brunswick had, on different occasions, done, much service to this country.—The Resolution was then agreed to.General Tarleton
144 had waited till he saw the house in a sufficient state of attendance, before he stated how he was circumstanced with respect to a transaction which in his view of it involved a breach of the privileges of that house. It would be necessary for him in order to explain the situation in which he stood, to state to the house a transaction which had taken place in one of the courts below. It was well known, that at the last election for the city of Westminster, the electors had nominated him as one of the candidates without his knowing any thing of the fact; and it was only towards the close of the election, that he was made acquainted with it. The electors claimed to be exempt from paying any part of the expence of that election, and the High Bailiff of Westminster had brought an action against him as one of the candidates, to recover a proportion of the expense of taking the election. Though there was no law to authorise such a demand, nor any custom to sanction the practise, though it was well known that he had not taken any share or portion in the conduct or
144Sir Francis Burdett
 did not know how to address the house on this occasion; indeed, he felt he should apologize for offering himself, as there was he motion before them. He trusted, however, that the house would allow him to state what occurred to him in the view he at present had of the case; and from, every attention that he could give to the statement of the hon. baronet, it did not appear to him to be a case in which the house could interfere. If the hon. baronet was right in his conception of the law, respecting the misdirection of the learned judge, he had been very ill advised by his counsel, not to apply for a review of the whole case, by a motion for a new trial, or by a bill of exceptions. As he apprehended the case, the action had been brought against the hon. baronet for the use which he or his agents had made of certain erections for hustings, and the facts went to be decided upon to a jury. The direction of a judge might be right or might be wrong, but in either case that house was not the proper tribunal in which to have the proceedings of the court below-reviewed. The course of practise in the administration of law, was in such cases either to proceed by motion to the court out of which the record issued for a new trial, or by a bill of exceptions; and if either of these had been resorted to by the hon. baronet and not been successful, there would be no relief for him. It was not for him to say whether or not the direction of the learned judge was correct; but the jury had no doubt decided upon the evidence produced to them of the use made of the erections by the agents of the hon. baronet. That was his view of the subject, but it would remain for the hon. baronet to decide what course he should pursue to attain any object he may have in contemplation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said that whatever might be his opinion on the general subject of what was called Catholic emancipation, he could by no means approve of the system which seemed now to be adopted, of heaping insult upon insult on the Catholics of Ireland. Upon the general question which was to come on, he might probably be of the same opinion which his constituents had expressed; but he was sure his constituents never could approve of such a wanton insult as this appeared to be to the Catholics of Ireland.Sir Robert Williams,
145 did not know that he was not bound, upon an application of this description to the house, to state what occurred to him upon the subject. Undoubtedly, as he understood the matter, the hon. member had offered himself to the house with perfect regularity, on a transaction which appeared to him to amount
145The Speaker
 expressed his surprise, that his majesty's ministers should have thought this a proper time for promoting a man who was remarkable for nothing so much as his rooted hostility to a considerable proportion of the population of this empire. When the gentlemen on the other side of the house did not venture to say a word in favour of the man who was the object of their choice, it appeared to him that their silence, however prudent, must yet be considered as a guilty silence. If the appointment was agreeable to their opinion, they ought to defend it; and if it was not agreeable to their opinion, they should not have made it. Their silence might be in some respects pardoned, for there might be a factitious unanimity in silence; whereas, in speaking, some differences might have arisen.Lord H. Petty
153 would have wished much to have heard some of his majesty's ministers undertake to defend the present appointment. All that he knew of the learned doctor who was the object of it, was, that he understood him to be a man whose life had been occupied in religious contentions; and that all the sentiments which he bad delivered in that house, were given in such a manner, and carried to so extravagant a length, that he believed there was not a single member in the house who would venture to say that he concurred with him. The learned doctor had long held the office which he now held, and it was never before thought necessary to raise him to the rank of privy counsellor. What could be the motive, then, of such an appointment at the present time; or how could his majesty's ministers suppose, that in recommending such an appointment, they were cherishing that unity and harmony which it appeared to be his majesty's earnest desire to cultivate? He wished to hear some of his majesty's ministers state, for what merits the learned doctor had been recommended. The sort of defence of the appointment which the right hon. secretary for Ireland (sir A. Wellesley) had made, was any thing but complimentary to the learned doctor. He had stated, that his power of doing mischief would be very limited, and that he would only be called upon for his advice on ecclesiastical questions. But what security was there for the house and the country, that the learned doctor would abstain from any of the duties of a privy counsellor? As soon as he was appointed, he might think it his duty to offer his
153Mr. Tierney
151 declared, that the learned gent, so frequently alluded to on this occasion, had not himself made any application whatever for the appointment which it had been thought fit to extend to him. The appointment had been recommended on the ground that the learned gent. filled the office of Judge of the Prerogative Court, the holders of which, with the exception of the learned doctor's immediate predecessor, had sat in the privy council. There was a great deal of ecclesiastical business relating to the union and disunion of benefices before the privy council.
151Sir A. Wellesley
 said, if the right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning) ever had any portion of the respect of the house or the public, he must or ought to have forfeited it by his present conduct. When the world saw that house debating in the manner they had done this night, it was impossible not to think that if the people had energy, the ministers had none. There was a secret influence in the cabinet of this country, which Mr. Pitt would have spurned at, and which any man who had been, as the right hon. gent, pretended to be, in his confidence, and emulated his conduct, must equally have despised.Mr. Curwen
 vindicated the learned judge from the imputation of having obtained his present exalted station by any party services, and contended that his elevation was altogether owing to his transcendant talents; as an abler or more upright judge had never sat upon, the bench.Mr. Curwen
150149148147146 rose to make his promised motion respecting the appointment of Dr. Duigenan as a Privy Counsellor of Ireland. He began by disclaiming all personal motives towards the learned gent, with whom he had never happened to have the smallest intercourse in his life, and whom he was disposed to regard with respect, in every other view but what belonged to the subject of which he was about to complain. This, however, he considered as of so much importance, that under similar circumstances he should not be deterred from a similar course, by any degree of respect which he either did or could entertain for any man whatever. The motion was of the greatest importance, fur if it were received, it could not fail in a considerable degree to counteract the ill effects which a late measure (the reduction of the Maynooth establishment) must infallibly produce by irritating the minds of the catholics in Ireland. The matter in question was small in itself, but the effect would be great. Prompt to a sense of injury, and still more of affront, the Irish character was equally sensible to marks of kindness.
150149148147146Mr. Barham
 said, that he was aware that a member who brought forward a specific motion, was, by the rules of the house, entitled to reply, but as nothing in the shape of argument had been urged on the other side, he had his doubts whether he should avail himself of the courtesy granted upon such occasions. The hon. member then briefly adverted to some observations which fell from the other side; after which the house divided:Mr. Barham
 thought it an unpardonable insult to Ireland, and every one connected with Ireland, to the house of commons, and to the empire at large, that his majesty's ministers would not condescend to offer any explanation on this scandalous appointment, but sat silent relying on their majority.Colonel Montague Mathew
157 thought it impossible to add to the arguments, or the provocation, which had been used to stimulate ministers to speak upon the present question. He could only now ask these right hon. gentlemen, in the language which had been put to a noble lord on another occasion; ' Will you yet sit still in dumb despair?' He asked whether they were like a jury, agreed among themselves, and if they were, to speak by their foreman. They seemed to be completely spell-bound, as had just been stated by his right hon. friend; but he perceived from their countenances that they were yet alive. He could easily read in the countenance of a right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning), who was fond of sometimes reading in his, that that right hon. gent, was fully as impatient of his silence as was the house, and that if he would speak his sentiments, it would be in reprobation of the appointment of doctor Duigenan to a seat in the privy council. It was easy to perceive that there was no sympathy, no union in the cabinet, and that ministers were united only for the purpose of creating disunion. He observed that many gentlemen who were very regular in their attendance were absent from the house this evening, and among these several zealous supporters of ministers; but of those who were present, he demanded if there was a single man who would rise up and approve of the appointment of doctor Duigenan to the office of privy counsellor. Reverting to the
157Mr. Whitbread
155 assured the hon gentlemen on the opposite side of the house, that a great majority of those who were in the habit of regularly voting with ministers did not scruple to censure the measure of making doctor Duigenan a privy counsellor in the severest terms. Not only had ministers great power over themselves, but they seemed also to possess complete influence over those of their own party, in preventing them from saying a single word in defence of this most extraordinary proceeding. As for what had fallen from the right hon. secretary for Ireland, the reasons which he had given for this proceeding were not only wholly unsatisfactory, but he did not believe them to be the true reasons. But though he had no hope of extracting any explanation or defence of the act "from his majesty's confidential ministers, he assured them that if by persisting in their silence, they believed they would persuade the country, that this silence arose from any other cause than a total inability to vin-
155Mr. W. Smith
tolero,156 seing that the right hon. gentlemen sat still completely spell-bound, professed to entertain very little hope of rousing them from the state of silence and stupor into which they had fallen. The feelings which this silence excited, were in the first instance those of indignation; but these had already subsided into compassion, and he was afraid that they would terminate in ridicule and laughter. Never, since the Speaker sat in the chair of the house, was there an example of such conduct in the official servants of the crown. If, however, they were insensible to what they owed, both to their public duty, and to their private characters, he implored them to have pity on those from whom on this evening they expected support, and to assign some reasons for the vote which they expected them to give. It must be implicit confidence indeed, which was given, when those who looked for it, would not even deign to ask it. What must be the religion, where a monkey is the god? Would nothing, he asked, operate upon the right hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Canning) who was such an advocate for boldness and openness of proceeding? or was the whole burthen of debate on that side of the house to be left to the gallant general (sir A. Wellesley) and the hon. gent, under the gallery (Mr. Beresford)? The former had stepped forward with much zeal and intrepidity; and in such a task, courage was certainly wanting, for never before, he firmly believed, had that gallant officer volunteered on such a forlorn hope. The amount of his defence was, that the appointment was not of material importance, and, as far as related to doctor Duigenan personally, no danger was to be apprehended from it, because he was to be tethered down in the council, and only to be let out on ecclesiastical questions. The other hon. gent, chose a different line of argument; he gave up both the cause and the doctor; contending that the proposer of the motion should be nonsuited, because it was not laid on proper grounds. He had not, however, condescended, to state any grounds for the vote of those who were expected to oppose it. The hungry sheep looked up, but they were not fed; they were not gratified with the boon of so much as a single argument. In opposition to the allegation of the gallant officer, Mr. Windham contended, that the
tolero,156Mr. Windham,
152 said, he had little idea, when he directed the attention of the house to the state of the Irish Church, that he was by any means promoting such a curse to the country, as the promotion of the learned doctor. On what grounds did government seek to justify so extraordinary an appointment? Why, because the urgency of ecclesiastical business required the presence of a distinguished civilian. The house would be surprised to hear, that in England, where the ecclesiastical business was tenfold, the number of ecclesiastics who attended the privy council was much less than in Ireland! As a proof of this, he referred gentlemen to every proclamation issued from the Castle of Dublin, to which the names of two or three bishops were almost always attached. But why did he attempt, from any official reasons, to prove the little necessity there was for the advancement of a man to whom there was every moral and political objection? What! would it be wise or rational to promote a man who, all his life—he begged pardon, he believed only since his accession to a place under the Protestant Church,—had declared himself hostile to the great majority of the Irish people? He denied that it was usual to appoint the
152Sir J. Newport
 presented a Petition from the land-owners, corn masters, and maltsters, of the county of Cambridge, against the proposed measure of exclusive Distillation from Sugar. He hoped that the chairman and members of the West India committee, who had recommended that measure, would not bring forward the motion on Monday, but that they would give time for the satisfactory examination of the voluminous documents that accompanied the report. The importance of the measure required mature deliberation, and he was sure the committee could not wish to hurry it through the house.Mr. Yorke
 had certainly no wish for improper haste, but no delay could take place consistently with any prospect of carrying the measure into effect this year.Lord Binning
 gave his consent to the motion, on the ground, that a Committee would afford the most satisfactory mode, according to the opinion of the honourable mover, for discussing the merits of the case: he begged, however, to be understood as by no means, from his acquiescence in this step, giving his concurrence to the measure, or assenting, in any degree, to the principle of opening anew an arrangement long closed.—The house having gone into a Committee,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
£.£.s.£.£.162 rose and spoke as follows: —Sir; Before I state the grounds of the motion I mean to submit to the consideration of the house, I beg leave to say a few-words in explanation of the reason which has induced me to come forward on this occasion. I trust I shall stand acquitted of any impropriety in being the advocate of what may be considered, in some degree, my own cause. I am fully aware of the difficulty and delicacy of my situation, and how much I stand in need of the patience and kind consideration of those whom I have the honour to address, to enable me to execute what I have felt my duty to undertake. The difficulty I speak of consists solely in that apprehension which I conceive must be natural to any one, like myself, unaccustomed to address this house, and which I think may have occurred even to those whose abilities justified a confidence in themselves, which I only derive from a conviction that, in the present instance, no talents on my part can be requisite.—I beg to assure the house, that whatever my own feelings maybe, I have not a wish to excite an interest with them beyond that of honouring me with their attention, and doing that impartial justice in this case to which, if their own, they might conceive themselves entitled; and that I have no motive in personally bringing it forward, but to conduct any discussion that may be necessary on the part of the Petitioner in such a manner, as to shew how much he wishes to avoid the slightest personal disrespect to those with whom it may have been his misfortune to have differed on this subject, and those of whose liberality in leaving it to the unbiassed decision of the only court to
£.£.s.£.£.162Major Palmer
(a)163 rose and said:—I cannot avoid acknowledging, that I feel very great astonishment at the house being now called upon to express their sentiments upon an arrangement which they had specifically decided upon several years before, and which I have always considered to be a transaction perfectly satisfactory to the public mind. A Committee was appointed in 1797, upon whose Report parliament
(a)163Mr. Long
228227—During the many years which I have had the honour to possess a eat in this house, it has seldom, if ever, fallen to my lot, to witness a Claim brought forward with a more ingratiating propriety of manner, than that which has just been introduced by the hon. gent. Indeed, so powerfully has that manner interested my feelings, that nothing but the most imperious sense of my public duty could now induce me to rise as his opponent. It is strictly correct, as my right hon. friend (Mr. Long) has already stated, that Mr. Pitt, upon his immediate acceptance of Mr. Palmer's Plan, did think he had concluded a very advantageous bargain for the country, and that he did also think the inventor of the Plan intitled to the perfect fulfilment of his Agreement for that great, and growing benefit which the country, through his ingenuity, had obtained. But, if I concede this much to one side of the question, I feel myself equally bound to assert upon the other, that it was
228227Mr. Rose.
l230229l—Sir; as a member of the Committee whose Report is now under consideration, I beg to offer my opinion upon the present occasion. I have, however, to premise, that there is one point in this Report upon which I had the misfortune to differ from those gentlemen with whom I was acting, though it is but fair to confess that on deciding upon the question, the great body of the Committee were against me.—The point to which I allude is the Claim of Mr. Palmer to the salary of 1500l230229lMr. Croker.
scire facias,232a231ll—It is with infinite reluctance that I rise upon this occasion, for the task which I have to perform is irksome to my feelings, but at the same time it is so essentially blended with my sense of public duty, that I cannot possibly avoid it; indeed, if any thing could tend more than another, to make an impression upon the house in favour of the petitioner, it is the speech of the honourable gentleman who opened, the debate; for, certainly, it was urged with every point, and enforced with every argument that such a subject could or would endure. It was calculated to impress the house with high respect for the petitioner, and to give very great importance to the discussion of his claims. I really feel myself in an unfortunate predicament, in being obliged to differ widely from the hon. gentleman, and my situation is rendered more irksome, when, as the ground of that difference in opinion, I am forced to assign very disagreeable reasons. I wish to have the house thoroughly apprised, that in case they acquiesce with the claim now before them, their vote will positively substantiate upon the country a demand for no less a sum than 97,000scire facias,232a231llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer.
239238237236235234233—I cannot, sir, at all admit, that the mode adopted in arguing this
239238237236235234233Mr. Windham.
 stated himself to have been a member of the Committee; which had bestowed upon every transaction connected with the case, the most particular and deliberate attention. He then read various extracts from the Evidence detailed before the Committee, upon the face of which he contended that Mr. Palmer's Claim for remuneration was clearly made out and established.Sir John Newport
l242l241240—Since I have been a member of this assembly, I believe it has never been my reproach that I have been found the champion of needless extravagance, or the advocate of a wanton profusion with the public money. Yet, much as I respect the maxims of economy, I am so far from esteeming them paramount to the claims of justice, that I must rise to give the present ques-
l242l241240Sir Francis Burdett.
 observed, that the mode of attack adopted by the opposition members that night appeared to him quite of a novel complexion; for he believed that this was the first occasion upon which gentlemen sitting upon the treasury bench had been reproached for a too scrupulous regard of the public money, and held out to the nation as over-cautious misers of the enormous trust reposed in their discretion: and he could not avoid remarking as something additionally extraordinary, that the present advocates for a profuse generosity, were the very persons who were clamouring in every man's ears against the increasing hardships of the times, and the necessity of a reduced expenditure. The two parties seemed completely to have shifted their ground while arguing the present case; for now ministers were violently blamed, merely because they followed these prudential maxims so long recommended by their adversaries. Whatever might be the event of the present question, he must assert, that his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, simply performed his duty, by resisting all doubtful demands upon the public purse, of which that house was the natural guardian, and was bound by every just principle to protect from spoliation with the same anxiety as any individual would his private property.Mr. George Johnstone
244ll243 after recapitulating and enforcing several of Mr. Windham's remarks, proceeded to state, that leave to bring in the present petition, had been applied for while he held the situation of chancellor of the exchequer; that without pledging himself in the slightest degree,
244ll243Lord Henry Petty,
250l249lll248lll247246245—Sir having myself formed one of the Committee appointed by the house to examine into the merits of Mr. Palmer's Agreement with government, I feel it a peculiar duty to otter my sentiments upon the present consideration of the Report.—Sir; I could wish the house to recollect, that the manner in which this Committee was selected, was agreed to by every one interested for or against the present question, as the fairest and most impartial mode that could be adopted. It was comprised, in the first place, of all the county members, of all the representatives of the great mercantile cities, of gentlemen of the long robe, and of merchants, and I challenge any gentleman in this house to produce from the earliest records of parliament, a committee more qualified to ascertain the merits of the case at issue, or more likely to administer equal justice to the public and to the individual.—Sir; I can boldly aver, that there never was a body of gentlemen who paid a more strict and constant attention to the subject before them, or who went more fully and essentially into the whole of the Evidence during a long and laborious investigation. The result of that investigation is now before you, and they there declare themselves of opinion, "That Mr. Palmer has fully proved his Agreement, and is justly entitled to the sum he claims."—Now, sir, I am far from asserting, that this house is
250l249lll248lll247246245Sir Thomas Turton
l251 (Sir Thomas Plomer) briefly observed, that it was his fixed opinion, that Mr. Palmer could establish no legal claim whatever to any part of the remuneration proposed; but that at all
l251The Solicitor General
 informed the house, that he had been fully acquainted with every particular relative to this business, at the time when the bargain was originally entered into between Mr. Palmer and the minister; and that he could assert from his own positive knowledge, that Mr. Palmer at that time considered himself to be forming an Agreement, which should stand independently upon its own merits, and not be liable to avoidance, upon any personal quarrel or misunderstanding between the parties. And he could also state, that from many communications had with Mr. Pitt, about the same period, he had every reason to believe the minister considered the bargain exactly in the same point of view.Mr. William Smith
 said it was impossible Mr. Palmer could ever have intended to resign the positive Claim he had under the original Agreement, when he accepted of the appointment, and that it was a duty incumbent upon the country to prevent one of its greatest benefactors from reproaching them, not only with ingratitude but with dishonesty.Mr. Peter Moore
 referred to the Evidence already before the house, for a thorough conviction that the bargain had been regularly and positively made; and thought it would be exceedingly disgraceful to refuse a small compensation for a very large benefit already derived and permanently possessed.—The Question now being called for,Dr. Laurence
ll252l again rose, to state that he had considered it a duty to the Committee in the first instance to frame his motion upon their Report, but, in consequence of the difference of opinion expressed by an hon. member of it (Mr. Croker,) he should beg leave, for the sake of meeting their unanimity, and as far as he could that of the house, to withdraw his motion including the 1,500ll252lMajor Palmer
259258 presented a Petition from certain of the clergy resident in the county of Berks, taking notice of the Bill for making more effectual provision for the maintenance of Stipendiary Curates in England, and for their residence on their cures; and setting forth, "That the petitioners, impressed with serious apprehension of the fatal consequences with which the regular clergy and established church of this kingdom are threatened, if the said Bill should pass into law, consequences which they have maturely weighed, and as it became their duty, have anticipated with unimpassioned and unbiassed deliberation, humbly lay the following considerations before the house: That they are penetrated with the deepest concern in contemplating the probable injuries which the character of the clergy of the church of England will sustain as a body, from the suspicions which this Bill is calculated to inspire, suspicions which they conceive are unmerited, tending to lower them in the estimation of the people, and to alienate, if not to destroy, that sentiment of respect and attachment which has been hitherto observed towards the clergy, as an integral and important branch of our constitutional polity, a sentiment which is so eminently necessary to the preservation of our pure religion, as in church and state established; and it has not been without
259258Mr. Charles Dundas
 supported the resolution, and sir J. Newport opposed it.Mr. S. Bourne
261 defended the Resolution. The interests of the crown and the interests of the public were one and the same; and any measure that tended to protect the one in this instance must tend to protect the other. He conceived, that the adoption of the Resolution, besides affording an additional security to the interests of the crown, would relieve those who had those interests more immediately in their care from what was
261The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll268267lll266ll265l264lll263l262 then rose, and addressed the chairman nearly as follows:—Sir, in consequence of the notice which I gave yesterday, I rise to propose to the committee certain Resolutions, for the purpose of enabling persons possessing stock in the 3 per cents. to transfer that stock to the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt, with the view of obtaining in its stead equivalent Annuities. Though the subject, sir, is of great importance, I do not think that at this moment the Resolutions will lead to any discussion, because I am not disposed to request that the house will form any opinion upon them this night. All that I intend is, after having briefly explained the nature of my proposition, to move the reading of the first Resolution pro formâ, and then to propose, sir, that you report progress. The whole of the Resolutions will be printed, and put into the hands of members as speedily as possible; and I shall defer any motion for resuming this committee until next week, in order that full time may be given for the due consideration of the subject.—Before I proceed in my statement, I think it extremely necessary to guard myself against any misapprehension that might otherwise arise, with respect to the tendency of the measure which I am about to propose in regard to the Sinking Fund. I declare to the committee, that I have no idea, directly or indirectly, of diverting the operation of the Sinking Fund from its natural and proper object, the Redemption of the National Debt. I trust, therefore, that no preconceived opinion on this subject, will be allowed to prejudice the minds of the committee.—I shall now, sir, state the nature of my proposition, and the reasons which induce me to recommend it to the adoption of the committee. I mean to propose, that liberty be given to any person possessing stock in either of the great 3 per cents, (the Consolidated or the Reduced) to transfer that stock into the hands of the commissioners for the reduction of the National Debt; and that on such transfer he be entitled to receive an Annuity for life, amounting to such a sum over and above the dividend on his stock,
ll268267lll266ll265l264lll263l262The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended, that if the interests of the crown had in any case been sacrificed as the practice now stood, it must have been owing to the negligence of the surveyor general of Crown Lands, and surveyor-general of woods and forests, whose peculiar duty it was to examine bills of inclosure, that they might not trench on his majesty's rights. He could not give his consent to the Resolution, because it would load the parties to inclosure bills with a heavy expence, without at all benefiting the interests of the crown.Mr. Taylor
274 thanked the hon. gentlemen opposite for the candid manner in which they had shewn their attention to the plan he had proposed. Gentlemen had talked of the immoral tendency of his plan, and of the effect it would have in changing the character of the country. They considered the purchase of annuities as a vice that ought to be put down. If parents purchased annuities for their own lives to the prejudice of their children, that, be admitted, would be wrong, and ought to be discountenanced. But would it not be proper for a parent to purchase an annuity for his child or for his widow, if the circumstances of his property would not admit of any other provision? It would be idle to provide small annuities, suppose for servants, or for a widow, on the security of land, when the expences of settlement, and perhaps of recovery, would lender the provision of no avail. No lure was to be held out to any description of persons; the calculations were founded upon the common principle, and there were every day much greater temptations held out without any security. Instead of having an immoral effect, the plan would afford an opportunity of acting upon the principles of humanity and good nature, in making a provision for friends. He should not be partial to the measure, if it would tend to alter the national character. But upon every consideration he could give it, he found the balance of good greatly preponderate over any evil that might be likely to arise from its operation. He had omitted to state, that one of the Resolutions contained the principle of the calculations, and the scale of purchases, and that they had been framed, not only upon the table of lives, but upon communication with those most intimate with such subjects. It had been said, that the plan would interfere with the operation of the Sinking Fund, but that must have been a mistake; because, if its operation were to amount to a million of annuity, the whole sum transferred for that would go to the commissioners, and add to the amount of the redeemed stock, whilst the amount of the Sinking Fund would be affected only to the small extent of the additional an-
274The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, with a view to the more certain and efficient training of the people, proposed an amendment, rendering it compulsory to call out the quotas under the bill as speedily as may be.Mr. Babington
 thought it might be safely left to the discretion of government to carry the training into effect with all convenient speed. He, however, was, willing to accede to the hon. gent.'s proposition, with some verbal amendments.Lord Castlereagh
 thought the burthen of the training and regimenting too great to impose on the people till there was a prospect of its being wanted. It was the merit of the Training act, that it gave the power of calling out the people when they, should be wanted, and imposed no burthen in the intermediate time. If any hon. gentlemen were so much in love with the present measure, that, they wished it to be,-executed without delay, the best incentive was to indulge them with the enjoyment of the ballot as soon as possible.Mr. Windham
 thought so large a ballot as this measure required, would be intolerable and impracticable. He wished the lists to be made out, and the ballot to take place at the same time for the local and the general militia, in order to avoid the unnecessary repetition of the bustle and confusion attending that proceeding.—After some further observations, the Amendment was agreed to as modified on the suggestion of lord Castlereagh.Mr. G. Vansittart
275 objected to the balloting plan of the noble lord, and proposed that the young men should be taken, from the age of 18 or 19, to that of 25; that they should be trained for 3 months the first year, and that the time in the; subsequent years should be diminished-as; they advanced in proficiency; that when they had passed the age of 25 they should be exempted from the service, so that the
275Sir James Montgomery
 observed, that this would entirely destroy the system of quotas, and the hardship would fall very unequally on the counties, unless the hon. baronet meant that the whole of the volunteer establishment should be immediately abolished. This would, besides, be attended with difficulties in the execution, much hardship, and other disadvantages, to which he did not see it necessary at present to subject the country.Lord Castlereagh
 approved of neither of the plans; but of the two, the hon. baronet's was certainly preferable, as along with the burthen on the public it would be in some degree efficient, whereas the noble lord's would do nothing more than impose an useless burthen. The hon. baronet was for dissolving the volunteers. The noble lord was for wasting them by degrees; he was for drilling them, secundum artem: his object was to transfer them to the local militia; he intended to bribe them to come into this militia, and to induce the officers, by giving them rank, to bribe the men to accompany them. This was his mode of proceeding with those to whom he had so often said he was willing to trust the fate of the country: why did he not trust them now? He had within 50,000 of all that he had before of volunteers. But the noble lord was obliged to have recourse to this transfer, and to adopt some of the very methods he had so loudly condemned, and all this after the calumnies which he had propagated against the proceedings of the late administration on this subject. He did not at all approve of the method of training proposed by either of the plans. It was impossible to train the people, so as to bring them in regiments against the enemy, under officers as ignorant as themselves. What he had proposed was to teach them the mere elements, to handle their arms and to fire powder. But his great object was to have them enrolled, so that they might be called upon, in case of emergency, to join the regular troops under experienced officers.Mr. Windham
276 thought this a very fair bill, as it went to call upon those counties
276Colonel Foley
 mentioned, that he intended to propose that there should be an instruction to volunteer corps that were full, to admit as supernumeraries persons who chose to pay half the fine, and go into a volunteer corps, in order to be exempted from this service.Lord Castlereagh
 observed that this was forcing into volunteer corps those who were no volunteers.Mr. Windham
 rather approved the bill, so far as it went; for a more permanent force than the volunteers was necessary. Yet he would have prefered a conscription of the young men from 18 to 25 to the method of ballot. A conscription, he affirmed, would be much more efficacious and less distressing than the ballot, for the duty would then be certain and unavoidable, whereas the system of ballot was attended with the most tormenting anxiety and uncertainty, and was calculated to introduce a system of perjury, that would be of the most calamitous consequences to the country.Mr. C. Wynne
 observed, that on that plan, all ranks must be confounded, and this would be felt as an intolerable grievance. The present mode of exempting persons, by fine and service in volunteers, would have the effect of bringing into the local militia those who were most fit for such a situation.The Secretary at War
 observed, that he had meant that the volunteers should be open to those who chose to serve in that way.Mr. Wynne
277 thought that the hon. baronet's plan was preferable, and he was sorry the principle had not been acted upon as it had been detailed by a noble writer (lord Selkirk). But the amendment proposed by the hon. baronet would go to change the principle of the present bill, and could not, he apprehended, be adopted in the committee. He must, therefore, oppose it as being brought forward at ah improper period. If, however, it should be proposed at a time when he could, consistently with the usages of the house, support it, he would do so, for he was convinced it would, more than any other plan, give security to the country, and contribute to the restoration of peace.277Mr. Wilberforce
270 contended that the plan of his right hon. friend would be beneficial to the individuals who should transfer their stock for annuities, in as much as it would secure their annuities without any of the difficulties of recovery attending annuities charged upon lands. The public funds would therefore be preferred; and that the practice of purchasing under this plan would not be injurious to the public, was apparent from the circumstance that the short annuities had lately afforded an op-
270Mr. Rose
 considered the statement of the chancellor of the exchequer perfectly clear but upon one point, the mode of calculating the value of lives. If the calculation was founded upon the tables of life, it would be a bad calculation for the public, because these tables were formed upon the ordinary probabilities of life, and the lives insured would be picked lives. He did not think the plan would succeed-to any extent, and he trusted it would not. A great part of the rise of the funds which had taken place since the last loan, had been produced by the stagnation of trade. The return of peace would, by giving other employment for capital, keep down the rise of the funds that would be produced by other causes. But, he apprehended that the funds would fall in consequence of a defalcation of revenue arising from the stagnation of trade. The plan upon which loans had hitherto been made in this country, was to procure them at a low rate of interest, and to give the individual the chance of the rise. Thus the burthen was laid upon posterity to relieve the present generation. The plan of the chancellor of the exchequer was the reverse, borrowing at five per cent. whereby we should have more interest to pay, and posterity less capital to redeem. He had not so sanguine a view of the state of the finances of the country as to think this change desirable.Mr. A. Baring
271rentes viagères allowed that, though in peace, capital might be withdrawn from the funds to be employed in commerce, yet the funds would rise, as no loans would then be wanted. However, looking, as they ought, to the general principle in such discussions, their measures should be framed, so as to meet any sudden shock, which might, by possibility, occur to depress the price of the funds. The plan of the right hon. gent. would hold out greater inducements to persons having lower capitals to purchase, than were to be met with in the course of fair trade. The effect would be, that a bonus would thus be given by government upon the transaction, and that the lower and middle classes would thus avail themselves of the profit held out by government. It was well known that where annuities had been encouraged by government to any extent, they produced a direct effect upon the morals of the country. The 271rentes viagèresLord H. Petty
269 deprecated the facility which the Plan proposed to afford to persons in the lower walks of life to do that which would be highly injurious to their families. At the same time, he did not believe that there was in this country any considerable body of people who would be disposed to avail themselves of the Plan. Persons of high rank could with case obtain annuities at the present moment, on landed security. Mr. Pitt had tried a similar Plan in 1783, which intirely failed. Every thing led him to believe that capital and increase of capital
269Mr. Tierney
257256255254 presented a petition from the gentlemen, clergy, merchants, and other inhabitants of Liverpool; setting forth, "That the said town essentially depends for the supply of bread to its numerous inhabitants, and a large and populous district in the interior of the county of Lancaster, upon importations of corn and flour from other parts, and that a large proportion of such supply has heretofore been derived from foreign countries; and that, of late, in consequence of the unhappy situation of the continent of Europe, and the embargo which has taken place in the U. States of America, the importation of foreign corn and flour has ceased, and the prices of these articles have advanced considerably, and are still advancing, while, at the same time, from the stagnation of trade, and the consequent want of employment, and depreciation of wages, the labouring classes of the people are become less able to purchase these necessaries of life at a high rate, or even more reasonable rates, as fully appears by the Report lately made of evidence taken before a committee of the house, ordered to be printed on the 12th of April last, on
257256255254General Gascoyne
 spoke to a similar effect.Mr. Graham
 did not think a sufficient ground had been laid for a resolution which, in his opinion, went to impose unnecessary expence and inconvenience upon the parties to bills of enclosure. No instance of injury having been done to his majesty's rights had been stated by the hon. gent. He wished the motion could be deferred until the country gentlemen, who were those most nearly interested, should receive information upon the subject.Mr. Whitbread
 supposed a case in which five millions were transferred when the stocks were at 60; he then supposed, that by the natural progress of the price from the operation of the Sinking Fund, the stocks Would reach 65, but that by the accelerated progress, in consequence of removing so much from the market, they would rise to 70: in that case he contended, that no advantage would be derived from the measure, but rather that it would be injurious.Mr. Brand
 spoke shortly, as nearly as we could collect from the low tone of voice in which he delivered his sentiments, rather in terms of approbation of the plan.Mr. Davies Giddy
l defended the Plan of his right hon. friend. It gave no bonus to; persons for investing their capitals, to the prejudice of their families. The scale was calculated upon the usual principles of the probabilities of life; and as to the effect it might have upon the morals of the public, it should be recollected, that the short annuities, which had lately fallen in, to the amount of 4 or 500,000lMr. Huskisson
 replied, that many instances had occurred in which the interests of the crown had been sacrificed from the want of such a clause in bills of enclosure. He particularised one of these instances in the enclosure at Sherwood Forest. As to inconveniencing the parties to such bills, the fact was, that at present where his majesty's interests were concerned, a bill of inclosure could not be introduced in the house without the previous consent of the crown; the resolution which he proposed tended therefore to diminish this obstacle.Mr. Huskisson
260, after a short statement of the object of his motion, moved a Resolution of the house, that in all Bills of inclosure, draining, &c. in which his majesty's interests, either in
260Mr. Huskisson
273 could not abstain from bearing his testimony to the immoral tendency of this plan. In all cases where government profited by the vices of the country, it connived at them. Thus it was that it was easier to procure licences for all the ale-houses in the country than to suppress one; and to the profit government derived from the stamp duty upon them, it was owing that the country was so deluged with quack medicines. The same principle applied to all the mounte-
273Mr. W. Smith
 would not in the present early stage go into any detailed observations on the plan submitted to the committee by the right hon. gent., but merely rose to observe, that there was this obvious and fundamental objection to the Plan, that it did, in a greater or less degree, tend to vitiate the morals of the lower orders of the people. He was afraid that too many parents would be found, who would be very willing to sacrifice the future interests of their children to their own immediate gratification. The system of annuities was too generally attended with such consequences, and he saw nothing in the Plan of the right hon. gent. calculated to obviate such effects in the present instance.Mr. Windham
viagères,272rentes observed, that this plan certainly held out superior advantages to such as should be disposed to take advantage of it; and deprecated the holding out any inducements to the lower classes to speculate in annuities. The finances of France had been in an embarrassed State at the time of resorting to the viagères,272rentesSir John Newport
ll279 said, he certainly thought the object of the proposed bill was of such a nature, that every one ought to agree to it. The right hon. general did not deny
ll279Mr. C. Wynne
llll said, that the proposed bill would go to tax the clergy between 20,000llllMr Foster
l281 opposed the measure. He insisted that the bill went to raise a revenue out of the pockets of the clergy of Ireland, under the idea that it would promote their interest, by first taxing them in order to procure the fund. The churches of Ireland and of England were declared to be one and indivisible, and therefore why put the clergy of Ireland upon a different footing from those in England? If there were to be any new valuation, it ought to extend to England as well as to Ireland. A bill similar to this one had been proposed in the house of lords some years ago, by a great and eminent prelate, but it was soon quashed. It would reduce the clergy in Ireland, great and small of them, to the greatest distress, if such a bill as this passed the house. It would be a charge almost insupportable, as a poor man would be nearly 3 years before he could reap any benefit from the glebe house he might have erected. Although those who opposed this measure were alledged to be wrong in point of law, yet he could inform its supporters, that it was formerly complained of as a great grievance, when Henry 8 abolished the Pope's power in this country, a new valuation of the First Fruits was made for the king's benefit. Nevertheless this fund was not the property of the crown at all; so that neither the keeper of the great seal, nor the master of the rolls, could at all exercise any controul over it. It was a fund purely belonging to the poorer
l281Dr. Duigenan
l282ll said, that it was quite an erroneous statement to say that this measure was to raise a tax upon the clergy to the amount of 30,000l282llMr. Ponsonby
283 observed, that he was by no means inclined to retract or to qualify any one opinion which he had advanced in the support of the measure (the Stipendiary Curates' bill) to
283The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 (Knight of Kerry) advised the chancellor of the exchequer to pause before he rejected a measure which, if refused, must lead to a full investigation of the state in which the Irish church was. placed. He proved, from an historical review, that the act of Queen Anne, by which the fund of first fruits were made available to the erection of glebe houses, and to the promotion of pious purposes, had been received by the clergy of that age as a great boon; so much so, that there existed a great competition with respect to the organ through which they should convey their thanks to the throne. There was no man who so well knew the necessity for the proposed measure as the learned doctor. He knew the deficiency of glebe houses in Ireland, and that such deficiency was, at all visitations, the pretext and excuse for the non-residence of the clergy. Was the house only to recognize this doctrine, that whilst the unhappy peasant of Ireland was oppressed with burdens and extreme taxation, the great, enormous, and lucrative incomes of the clergy, were not to pay any proportion, even to the support of the poor of their own order? The livings in Ireland had been united for political purposes; indeed, their object appeared to be rather to procure situations for political partisans, in place of provisions for religious pastors, and the diminutions of the Protestants in that country was principally to be attributed to that system of policy. He concluded by assuring the house, that the refusal of the present measure would provoke a discussion, which would perhaps be not the most serviceable to the interests of the Church establishment in Ireland.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
286 had communicated the substance of this motion to sir John Duckworth, who with the manliness that always distinguishes him, was only anxious that the
286Admiral Hervey
 in explanation, expressed the greatest readiness to give facility to the examination of the charge preferred, which was in substance, that he had not, under all the circumstances, made the sort of attack he ought to have made. He had no doubt that the gallant admiral would be found to have done his duty to the utmost, on that, as on every other occasion.Admiral Hervey
289 expressed great unwillingness to have these papers laid before the house. Though he did not doubt that those who proposed such investigations, were actuated always by patriotic motives, he did not think it right to institute inquiries into the conduct of naval and military commanders in that house in the first instance. If there was ground for a charge of neglect of duty in any case, the proper course was to represent the matter to the admiralty; and if the charge appeared founded, it would be brought to trial before the proper tribunal, a court martial. He expressed a high respect for sir John
289Mr. Yorke
 brought up the Report of the Committee of the whole House on the Claim of Mr. Palmer. It was read a first time. On the motion for the second reading,Mr. Wharton
 was of opinion, that this was the most exceptionable demand he ever knew. If the house agreed to the Report, they would reward a public officer for great and manifold misconduct. In the year 1799, the question had been decided against Mr. Palmer, by a majority of 112 to 28; but now, without any additional evidence on the subject, the house were called upon to do that, which would shake their honour and character more than any thing within his recollection.Mr. Rose
299—Sir, I have examined the merits of this case, and bestowed the greatest attention upon every argument brought forward, both for and against Mr. Palmer's Claims: and so far from their having shaken, they have confirmed the opinion that I before entertained, of the justness of Mr. Palmer's demands.—Sir, when I observe, upon the one hand, the greatness of the benefits, and remark upon, the other, the smallness of the craved reward, I really am astonished that ministers should hesitate for a single instant to comply with Claims founded on an undeniable contract, and supported by services, which have exceeded the most sanguine hopes.—But, sir, I must at the same time, congratulate his majesty's ministers on the acquisition of a virtue, of which I never before observed in them the least trait. And I shall be extremely happy if they remain under its influence on future occasions, instead of pensioning worthless objects, who have done their country far more harm than good. I scarcely know how to answer the arguments of the right hon. gentlemen on the opposite side, for they so perpetually shift their ground and change their position, that it is almost impossible to ascertain where they intend to make a stand. First, it is a bargain, then it is not a bargain; and after all they seem doubtful, whether this is a bargain, or a remuneration. Now, I think it immaterial which it is, for if it is a contract, beyond a doubt it should be performed; and if it is a remuneration, surely 50 shillings cannot be considered too much to give a man, who gives you 100 pounds. Here the public has, and is receiving profits to the amount of millions! For this stupendous engine is at this moment actually in motion, and will be so as long as the kingdom shall exist; and while it does, it's benefits must increase. For the numerous and incalculable advantages arising from this plan, I think the country can hardly ever make an adequate return to Mr. Palmer; for the fatigue, anxiety, disappointment, and loss of health he has suffered, they never can, I am certain.—Sir, I am not in general very ready to place implicit confidence in the Reports of Committees; but when I consider the impartial and able gentlemen that composed it, and that Mr. Palmer could have no influence over them, besides
299Sir Francis Burdett.
 contended, that the agreement between Mr. Palmer and the public had been cancelled by the very improper conduct of Mr. Palmer in office. It was his opinion, that the Revenue having materially suffered by Mr. P.'s dismissal, was an argument against him, and that he ought to suffer by the loss.Mr. Marryat
 informed the house, that it appeared to him, that the regular mode of proceeding would be for the accounts of the Net Proceeds of the Post Office Revenue up to the present period to be laid before the house; the amount of money which was to be paid to Mr. Palmer, as a remuneration for the time past, could then be ascertained from those documents, and voted in a Committee of Supply. The consideration of the annual sum which the house might think fit to order to be paid in future, must also, he believed, originate in a Committee of Supply. When a Resolution was agreed to on that subject, a bill might afterwards be brought into the house pointing out the fund from which it was to be taken, and legalizing a particular course of distribution or appropriation as usual in similar cases.—The Accounts were then ordered to be laid before the house. After which the Report was agreed to, and Mr. Palmer proposed, that on Friday next the subject should be referred to a Committee of Supply.The Speaker
l280 said, he owned he felt much surprise at the opposition that had been made to this measure, the more especially when it was made upon a motion merely to bring in the bill. After the discussions that had already taken place in that house upon measures brought forward by the chancellor of the exchequer to encourage the residence of the clergy in England, he could not help thinking it was equally desirable to encourage that residence in Ireland. Gentlemen appeared to oppose this bill upon wrong principles and misstatements, as the object of it was not, as
l280Mr Horner
 defended Mr. Pitt's bargain, and contended that if that great man had felt it to be improvident, he never would have shrunk from acknowledging it.Mr. Holford
—50Majority
—50Majority137Against it
137Against it87For the Adjournment
87For the Adjournment
—50Majority
—50Majority137Against it
137Against it87For the Adjournment
87For the Adjournment dwelt upon the imperfect evidence of the report; and moved that the debate be adjourned till to morrow se'nnight, with a view to refer it back to the committee, with an instruction to the committee to take further evidence. The house divided: the numbers were,
—50Majority
—50Majority137Against it
137Against it87For the Adjournment
87For the Adjournment
—50Majority
—50Majority137Against it
137Against it87For the Adjournment
87For the AdjournmentMr. Sumner
 rose. He said he should ill discharge his duty, as one of the guardians of the public purse, if he did not declare that, in his judgment, the present was one of the most extraordinary and unjust grants of the public money he had ever witnessed. He was convinced the house had been surprised into the vote they had given. There were many opportunities, however, still remaining for a reconsideration of the question, which he hoped would not be omitted. He thought the present occasion would convince his right hon. friend opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) of the impropriety, as his majesty's concurrence was required where grants of public money were applied for, of lending that concurrence in cases where he was convinced that no claim ought to be sustained. He was by no means convinced, that any bargain had ever been entered into; and on this head, he thought the house was equally bound to take the word of Mr. Pitt as of Mr. Palmer. But, supposing there had been such a bargain, and it was proved that Mr. Palmer had been guilty of the charges laid against him, and, on account of which, his situation had been forfeited, he asked, if it was possible to maintain that his misconduct had not divested him of the emolument as well as of the office? Though he did consider Mr. Palmer as having been a useful servant to the public, yet he was of opinion he was already sufficiently recompensed, and he should therefore resist the present unjustifiable and extravagant demand.Mr. Bankes
 opposed the motion, He said he believed the valuation that now existed had taken place in the reign of Henry 8, and one great consideration now was, whether the clergy were not in general already sufficiently provided for? He thought, at least, that there were many already sufficiently provided for, while others were not so; but the measure now proposed would go to benefit them all equally. It was true that many of the clergy did not pay the First Fruits, but the inequality in that instance was so exceedingly small, that it was not worth while to alter the valuation; the more especially as there were other funds for enlarging glebe houses in Ireland; and the sum now proposed to be granted in addition for that purpose, not being very large, he believed the house would think with him, that there was no ground for agreeing to this bill.Sir A. Wellesley
l294 said, that major Palmer's powers of persuasion had, on a former evening, made him a proselyte; but that, on a better understanding of the case, he now came prepared to make his retrac-
l294Mr. Stuart Wortley
 strongly supported the Resolution, and compared the conduct of Mr. Palmer's Deputy, who had revealed his confidential correspondence, to that of Judas Iscariot, who sold his master.Mr. Fuller
 complained that very few questions had been put to him by the Committee, though it was in his power to throw considerable light upon the subject; and contended that the percentage on the Revenue of the Post Office was granted to Mr. Palmer only during his continuance in office.Mr. Long
298 argued, that the opinion of the Committee was not entitled to much credit, because the evidence upon which that opinion was formed was not given; and that the question having been
298Mr. Sturges Bourne
293292291290 It seems desirable that previous to any remark on the subject before us, notice should be taken of an opinion which, however foreign from the merits of the question, may have considerable share in influencing the decision of it: namely, that this is a question on which those who vote on one side or the other may be considered as voting on principles of party. On what grounds this idea should be taken up, or how the ministers should be fond of countenancing it,
293292291290Mr. Windham.
 rose to offer to the house the motion on the subject of the Log Book of the Royal George, while in the Dardanelles, which motion he had deferred from a former night. The house had already on its table the Instructions of the Admiralty to lord Collingwood; and also the Instructions of lord Collingwood to sir John Duckworth, directing that not more than half an hour should be consumed in negociating with the Porte. Sir John Duckworth, in his letter of the 6th March, alledged in excuse for his non-compliance with these orders, the contrary state of the winds, which would not permit him to come close to the city of Constantinople. It was essential to a just investigation of the causes of the failure of the Expedition, to have full and particular evidence on all the facts bearing upon it, and with this view he moved, That there be laid before the house, a copy of the journal or logbook of the Royal George, capt. Dunn (sir J. Duckworth's flag-ship), from the 19th Feb. the day she entered the Dardanelles, to the 22d Feb. both inclusive.Colonel Wood
288287 At the time, sir, when I gave notice of my intention to move to be laid on the table of the house, an extract of the journal of one of his majesty's ships, whilst employed upon the Expedition against Constantinople, during the very short period of four days, it was impossible for me to foresee, that there could be, from any quarter, the smallest objection for the production of this paper, but more particularly from the quarter from whence the objection has since come. We were called upon to consider and to determine upon the failure of one of the most important Expeditions that ever sailed from England, and in comparison with the success of which, the loss of every ship of the squadron would have been a trifling and inconsiderable national calamity. Upon the success of this expedition hung suspended the fate of not only Russia, but of England, and of the whole civilized world. Immediately after the passing of the Dardanelles, had our fleet carried the intelligence of this exploit, as well as of the destruction of the Turkish fleet, to Constantinople, within 12 hours after it had happened, (which, from every information I have been able to obtain, I am of opinion, might easily have been done), the confusion and consternation would have been so great, that I am satisfied the English admiral might have prescribed any terms he pleased. The delivering up of Sebastiani, the occupation of the forts of the Dardanelles, and the renewal of the ancient alliance betwixt England and the Ottoman Porte, I am satisfied, would not only have been the immediate consequence, but the Russians and Turks would once more have been friends, and general Michelson, with 60,000 Russians, have been set at liberty, and have been enabled to have taken part in the battles of Friedland and Eylau, which decided the fate of Europe. This country, in place of being, as at present, shut out from every port of the Turkish empire, would have had the aid and intercourse of upwards of 30 millions of people, which would, in some measure, have com-
288287Colonel Wood.
l285ll284 replied to the objections of those who opposed his motion. He wished to know upon what grounds the house could refuse a measure, which only went to make a fund, fixed by parliamentary enactment, for the purpose of building glebe-houses in Ireland, avaliable to the import of the statute of queen Anne,
l285ll284Sir John Newport
lll278l rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the more equal valuation of the revenue of the First Fruits in Ireland, and for the due collection thereof. In doing this, the right hon. gent. took occasion to state the grounds upon which he proceeded. By the Returns made by the Archbishop of Cashel, the whole annual amount of the First Fruits at present collected was merely 350lll278lSir John Newport
297296295 —After the very ample investigation which this subject underwent upon a former evening, and the decided sentiment which the house by a very large majority then expressed upon its merits, I little expected to find the discussion revived upon the present occasion with an increase of acrimony, yet without any addition of argument.—I can assure the House that unlike the hon. member behind me (Mr. Stuart Wortley) I rise not to avow myself a proselyte to any argument I have heard either within or without doors, or to express my repentance for having given a vote on a preceding night, in favour of the just claims of a meritorious individual, which the house in its justice, and to its eternal honour, has recognized.—Sir, I was much surprised to hear the hon. gentleman state, that Mr. Palmer's powers of persuasion had made him a proselyte, but that on a better understanding of the case, he came prepared to make his retraction.—Sir, I shrewdly suspect that the authors of the hon. gent.'s proselytism are not far off, and that their arguments, too often irresistibly persuasive, have made him a proselyte from the truth and justice of the case; but I care little by what cause this effect has been produced, sure I am, it will not be general amongst those who come to discharge their duty without respect of persons, and of such I am satisfied the maj6rity on a former night were composed. Sir, I must confess I did not expect to hear myself, in common with two thirds of the house, stigmatized with gross ignorance and mistake in the discharge of my public duty, and formally put upon my defence, for a vote which I had given conscientiously and according to the best dictates of my judgment. The
297296295Sir Tho. Turton
 was surprised at the inconsistencies of the gentlemen on the opposite side; for instead of arguing on the bargain, which they all admitted, they flew to the misconduct of Mr. Palmer while in office. The impropriety of Mr. Palmer's conduct in office he was not a supporter of, but he would submit, that the conduct in office had nothing to do with the original bargain, and ought not to interfere with the present question. Why did they not meet it when it was before the house for the first time, and put a stamp on it? That would have shewn the public Mr. Palmer had no claim; but instead of doing so they gave it a half assent, a half dissent, and at last threw it by and got rid of it by moving the previous question. There had been a vast deal of obloquy thrown on the Report of the Committee; he saw no argument adduced to warrant it. He believed the Committee consisted of as honourable and as good men, without exception, as the house could produce. He could not pass over the subject without saying, that the Committee had been hardly used.Lord Milton
373 contended, that the nabob's father and grand-father had lived and died in amity with the British government, and that by the treaty of 1792, the nabob was not precluded from any but a political association, or correspondence with the native powers. No one act of hostility had been committed by the nabob, nor had he been proved in any instance to have violated his engagements with the company. He could not agree in
373Lord Archibald Hamilton
391390389388l387386385384383382381380379378377376375374 felt that, having on a former night ventured to state his opinion upon a question of a nature similar to that which was now brought before, the house, (the Oude Charge,) he should not discharge his duty with satisfaction to his own mind, were he to be silent upon a motion that related to transactions, which took place in the Carnatic, where he resided for an uninterrupted period of 20 years; having, in the course of that time, also, held a confidential situation under his noble friend lord Buckinghamshire, during the whole of his administration in India, he had opportunities of knowing many of the facts, which were stated in the papers before the house. As the nabob of Arcot had never wanted advocates (as they had witnessed even that night,) to assert that he was an independent sovereign, and as many hon. members might not have had leisure or inclination to peruse the papers laid before parliament upon this subject, he wished shortly to draw the attention of the house to the origin of our connection with Mahomed Ally, and to the founda-
391390389388l387386385384383382381380379378377376375374Colonel Allan
lateritiam invenit marmoream reliquit.372371370369368367366365364363362361360359358**357356355354353352351350349**348347346345344343342341340339338337336335334333332331330dence with any European or native power, without the consent of the said Company."329!Tenth article of Treaty of 1792.—"The said Nawaub shall receive regular information of all negociations which shall relate to declaring war or to making peace, wherein the said Company may engage, and the interest of the Carnatic and its dependencies may be concerned; and the said Nawaub shall be considered as an ally of the said Company in all treaties which shall in any respect affect the Carnatic, and countries depending thereon, or belonging to either of the contracting parties contiguous thereto; and the said Nawaub agrees that he will not enter into any negociation or political correspon-328327326325 rose and began by saying—In offering myself to your attention, Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of objecting to the Resolutions proposed, and taking a view of the event to which they relate, essentially differing from that stated by the hon. baronet who has just sat down, I may be permitted to express some degree of surprise, arising from the period at which this subject is now submitted to the consideration of the house. If the transaction in question be of the nature described in the speech we have just heard;—if the epithets of foul and atrocious, which have been repeatedly applied to it, have been justly applied;—if it does indeed, as vitally as it is said to do, involve the faith, the justice, and the character of the country;—if it is not brought forward rather for the distinction of an individual, than as a necessary vindication of the national honour;—it is surely a matter of just astonishment, that it should not be till after the sixth year from the time it was first brought under the notice of this house,—that it should not be till after every document elucidating it has been printed and reprinted for the consideration of three successive parliaments—that we are at length arrived at this long looked for discussion. I do not mean to accuse the hon. baronet: it is only for a comparatively short part of that period he has had a seat in this house, and I must do him the justice to say, that since he has undertaken the business, I am not aware of its having been delayed a single hour on the ground of his personal convenience;—but if there are those who concur in his impressions, who are prepared to manifest that concurrence by their votes this night, and who have enjoyed opportunities which he has not possessed, of appealing to the judgment of parliament,—it will become them, nay, sir, they owe it to themselves, to this house, and to their country, to repel, if they can, the charge of such a dereliction of their public duty, as irresistibly results from their having endured, for so long a period, a stain so foul to disgrace the British name—from having left the national faith and justice, six long years, wounded, impeached, dishonoured, and, as far as de-
lateritiam invenit marmoream reliquit.372371370369368367366365364363362361360359358**357356355354353352351350349**348347346345344343342341340339338337336335334333332331330dence with any European or native power, without the consent of the said Company."329!Tenth article of Treaty of 1792.—"The said Nawaub shall receive regular information of all negociations which shall relate to declaring war or to making peace, wherein the said Company may engage, and the interest of the Carnatic and its dependencies may be concerned; and the said Nawaub shall be considered as an ally of the said Company in all treaties which shall in any respect affect the Carnatic, and countries depending thereon, or belonging to either of the contracting parties contiguous thereto; and the said Nawaub agrees that he will not enter into any negociation or political correspon-328327326325Mr. Wallace
392, on account of the lateness of the hour, and the number of hon. mem-
392Mr. Windham
324323322321320tali auxilio, defensoribus istis,in foro conscientiœ,319318317316 rose to move his promised Resolutions respecting the deposition of the nabob of the Carnatic. He began by requesting the indulgence of the house, unconnected as he was with any party, and unsupported by any influence except what might be expected from the strength of the cause. Before he had become a member of the house, his attention had been turned to the subject by different motions for papers which had been made, and he was then anxious that the matter should be thoroughly investigated; feeling, in common with many others, for the honour and good faith of the country. When he come into parliament, he found the question still floating, and did every thing in his power to induce some other member to bring it forward, preferring to be the seconder rather than the mover: no choice, how-fiver, was left him. The right hon. gent. (Mr. Sheridan) to whom he had particularly looked, had found himself in circumstances that prevented his urging the question, as it might have much embarrassed those with whom he acted. He had no
324323322321320tali auxilio, defensoribus istis,in foro conscientiœ,319318317316Sir Thomas Turton
394393 presented a Petition from the lord provost, magistrates, and common council of the city of Glasgow; setting forth, "That the petitioners feel themselves called upon, at this interesting crisis, to express to the house their unqualified approbation of the proposal lately made in parliament for the temporary suspension of Distillation from Grain; the present relations of these kingdoms with the other nations of the world, the large quantities of grain which it is well known this coun-
394393Mr. Campbell
, in explanation, said, he still believed there were many persons who led a life of idleness, who would think themselves well accommodated in the gaols of Ireland.Mr. Herbert
400399398397396 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice, for some amendments of the Criminal Law. He was aware that from part of the public, and particularly that part of it whose opinion might be supposed to have most influence upon his conduct, a person who had such amendments to propose could hardly expect praise, but must consider it enough if he meets with excuse. His apology must be, that he had not taken up the matter lightly or on a sudden; that the subject which he presumed to bring before the house, was one which had occupied his thoughts for many years of his life. He had long ago promised himself, that if ever he should have the honour of a seat in this house, he would bring forward some measures for reforming the criminal law; and recollecting this, he could not but feel that he ought rather to apologise for having delayed the proposal so long, than for bringing it forward now.—In the criminal law of this country, he had always considered it as a very great defect, that capital punishments were so frequent; and were appointed, he could not say inflicted, for so many crimes. No principle could be more clear, than that it is the certainty, much more than the severity of punishments, which renders them efficacious. This had been acknowledged ever since the publication of the works of the marquis Beccaria; and he had heard, he could not himself remember it, that upon the first appearance of that Work it produced a very great effect in this country. The impression, however, had hitherto proved unavailing; for it has not in this country, in a single instance, produced any alteration of the criminal law; although in some other states of
400399398397396Sir Samuel Romilly
 said, he was one of those who approved of the laws, and he thought that very good grounds ought to be laid down before any innovation was made upon them. He disapproved, in particular, of the proposal for making compensation to persons who had been tried and acquitted. He suspected that, in Ireland, many indolent persons would reckon it no hardship to be confined in a comfortable prison.Mr. Herbert
, professing, as he felt, the most unfeigned respect for the ability and zeal of his hon. and learned friend, who brought forward the present motion, was by no means satisfied that it would produce the benefit expected from it. He was not, indeed, prepared to say whether the good or evil it might produce was likely to preponderate. In this situation he should only lay in his claim to approve or disapprove of the measure, as, on more mature reflection, he, should be of opinion it merited. Whether the attempt to grant compensation to persons acquitted of offences imputed to them, might not be productive of greater evil than good, was not now the question. He was certainly inclined to think, that however plausible the theory, the practice would be very injurious.The Solicitor General
402 felt himself bound to pay the tribute of his testimony and approbation to the ability and motives of the hon. and learned baronet, by whom this
402Sir Francis Burdett
 then again rose. He was sorry that he had been so much misunderstood by the hon. baronet, who seemed to conceive that, in the motion which he was about to submit to the house, any thing was included but the general question, whether persons accused, tried, and acquitted, should or should not be entitled to compensation for the injury which they sustained. The mode of deciding to whom this compensation should be awarded, or whether it should be given to all indiscriminately (which he should prefer to withholding it from all) would be open for discussion when the bill was brought in. He moved for leave to bring in a bill to provide in certain cases compensation to persons tried and acquitted in a criminal court, for the damages sustained by them, in consequence of having been detained in custody and brought to trial.Sir Samuel Romilly
403 repeated, that in the view which he had of the subject, the evil would preponderate over the good. If the judge refused to give compensation, it would be indicative of the unfavourable opinion which he entertained of the innocence of the person by whom it was demanded; and he would thus be placed in a very invidious situation. Besides, suppose a person were acquitted on an error in the indictment before the merits of his
403The Solicitor General
 declared his surprise that his hon. and learned friend should resist the introduction of a bill, of the provisions of which he must necessarily be ignorant. With respect to the proposition being a novelty, it was to be regretted that there had not been more novelties of a similar description.Sir Samuel Romilly
 General acquiesced.The Solicitor
 would certainly not oppose the bringing in of the bill.Sir F. Burdett
 also declared that he would not resist the introduction of the bill, although he wished that the hon. and learned baronet had stated more fully the grounds on which he proposed it, and the provisions which he meant that it should comprise. He was of opinion that the remedy proposed would be more injurious than the evil complained oilThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was desirous of postponing his motion for taking into consideration the Report of the committee on the distillation of spirits, until to-morrow, if an hon. gent. whose notice stood for to-morrow, would consent to put it off.Lord Binning
 requested that the discussion might be postponed till Monday, as his colleague and he would have an opportunity before that day of learning the sentiments of their constituents. A public meeting in the county of Surrey would be held on Saturday, and he should be sorry that the debate should come on before that time.—After some further conversation, in which sir J. Seabright, sir S. Romilly, lord Binning, Mr. Whitbread, Mr. Barham, Mr. W. Taylor, sir A. Wellesley, and Mr. Windham, participated, it was agreed that lord Binning's notice should stand for to-morrow, and Mr. W. Taylor's for Friday.Mr. Thornton
, in the absence of some hon. friends of his, felt it his duty to impress upon the house the necessity of postponing the further proceedings on this bill till next Friday. There was a very general feeling entertained, that the question on the distilleries, which had the precedence for discussion, would have prevented the order, which referred to the Local Militia, from being moved, at least at so early an hour of the night. Under that impression, and knowing that it was the intention of some friends of his to submit certain amendments and clauses in the committee, he should certainly move the postponement of the order till next Friday.Lord Milton
407 pressed the house to proceed; and contended that there were future opportunities for those members, who were then unfortunately absent, to submit their opinions to the consideration of the house. Indeed, he did not expect a fuller
407Lord Castlereagh
 denied that there was any thing more in this circumstance than what frequently occurred, namely, that when the first notice on the order book was not proceeded with, the next was taken in its stead.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was proceeding to state his objection to the report, when he was called to order byMr. Coke
 said, if a right hon. gent, would postpone the Dublin police bill from Friday, he would willingly bring his motion on that day.Lord Binning
 lamented that the noble lord had not determined upon this postponement last night. Hail he done so, the discussion of the Local Militia bill would not have been brought on so unexpectedly, and in the absence of several gentlemen who were anxious to deliver their sentiments upon it.Mr. C. Wynne
 said, that notwithstanding the easy, self-satisfied way in which the noble lord expressed himself, he should have recollected that if the house was full, it was filled by gentlemen who came down to the discussion of another business, which had been positively fixed for that night. A measure stood for that night, on which a great deal of discussion was expected. Without any reason assigned, save an undefined assertion of convenience, it was postponed. The result was, that another measure, which was not expected to come on, was pressed before the house; and when causes were stated to postpone it, the noble lord replied, that the motion was unnecessary, because, after the details were gone through, there were other opportunities for the discussion of their merits. The question, however, turned upon this consideration, that by agreeing to the amendment moved by his noble friend, the only inconvenience which was likely to result was, that hon. members would have another day to attend their duty in that house, whereas if the house then proceeded, no future opportunity would be offered to them to state their objections.—The house then divided: Ayes 81; Noes 37. Majority 44.Mr. Windham
 thought that the period of eighteen was certainly the fittest time for young men to commence military service, and that every year after they became less and less fit. He was of opinion that if the ballot was confined to young men between eighteen and nineteen, a sufficient number would be found to answer the purposes required, without carrying the ballot to men of more advanced years. He thought the age of thirty-five much too far advanced.Sir James Hall
 admitted, that in some counties the principle of the hon. baronet might answer, and produce even more men than were wanted for the particular district, but in many others it would not at all produce the number required, and the age must be extended.Lord Castlereagh
 thought the range of years stated in the clause too extensive, as it would give a greater number of men than were required.Sir James Montgomery
 answered, that the numbers were calculated by the population of each county; and a narrower limitation would not give the number of men required.Lord Castlereagh
l observed, that last year's Militia Bill excepted numbers on the ground of being volunteers; but in this bill, every county was ordered to find its quota, without any regard to the number of its volunteers. Neither was any exception proposed on account of the number of a man's children, however great; and in this respect he thought that carrying the ballot so high as thirty-five years of age, would be extremely oppressive to numbers of poor men with large families depending on their industry. He therefore suggested an exception in favour of men having more than three children; and he also thought the hardship much greater on men after thirty than before; more especially a poor shop-keeper, or any man settled in life, of small capital, whose income did not exceed 100lSir James Montgomery
 thought that by making the term from eighteen to thirty, about one in five would be drawn for service in the county where he lived; but the clause as it stood would take two out of three of the male population.Sir W. W. Wynne
409 said, that the committee, on considering the measure maturely, would find that it would on no account be so oppressive as seemed to be apprehended. To the working manufacturer who could earn six shillings a day, undoubtedly the service would be objectionable. But it would be no great oppression upon the head of a family to be obliged, during a period of four years, to devote one month in each to make himself serviceable to his country; and with respect to the burthen apprehended by parishes for allowances to the families of poor men during their absence on service, it was groundless, as such allowance was to be reimbursed by the paymaster-general. As a measure of national expence, he had now reason to believe it would not be nearly so expensive as he at first imagined, from the number of volunteers who were coming forward in every part of the country. It was only in counties where volunteers did not come forward in sufficient numbers.
409Lord Castlereagh
bona fide cabled the attention of the house to the operation this bill would have on those young men at Eton, Winchester, Westminster, and other places, who were educated with a view to holy orders. The resident members of universities were already exempted, and in the same spirit the exemption ought to be extended to persons of the description just mentioned. The fine, he understood, was to exempt only for two years, and persons who could not possibly enter into the militia might be liable to pay it three times in all. He also adverted to the situation in which young Roman Catholics would stand; especially such as were educated for holy orders. If they were liable to serve at all, of which there were doubts, they would be subject to the Mutiny Act and the articles of war, which commanded the marching to church, &c. Their situation was quite different from such of the Roman Catholics as enlisted voluntarily. He therefore moved an amendment, exempting young men engaged, bona fideSir John Cox Hippisley
 did not object to the principle, but, if admitted, it would open a door to the most, enormous abuses, and the mischief which would thus result from allowing the exemptions would far overbalance any inconvenience that could arise from leaving the matter as it stood. With regard to young men educated for Roman Catholics, it was but fair, that they should at least contribute to the public service by fine, as the Quakers did, whose religious principles prevented their giving personal service. His lordship also observed, that the pressure here was much less than that of the regular militia service.Lord Castlereagh
l410 thought the amendment of the hon. baronet well worthy of serious consideration. But leaving that, he called the attention of the noble lord to the difference between this and other services, especially that proposed by the Training
l410Mr. Windham
 adverted to the exemptions which were allowed to dissenting clergymen, which, in this bill, was qualified by the words,' and not carrying on any other trade.' He admitted that many-frauds had been committed by persons who got exempted by pretending to be dissenting clergymen. But there was a numerous sect called Baptists, whose teachers had in many instances, so little salary, that they became booksellers or stationers, being, however, really clergymen. The operation of these words would be peculiarly hard on them, and he would propose an amendment to remedy this inconvenience on the Report.Mr. W. Smith
 objected, that nothing was more usual than for masons, bricklayers, and other handicraftmen, to setup for spiritual teachers, and hence a clause like that wished to be introduced, would most erroneously include these unworthy objects within its provision.Lord Castlereagh
 adverted to the clause, refusing exemption to apprentices, and contended that this was most injurious to the young men themselves, as they would be taken from their employments, the knowledge of which they might not have sufficiently acquired, and fall into habits inconsistent with their occupations, while the masters would be most seriously injured in their property, the young men being taken from them at the age when they would be of most use to them. It was known that the permanent duty of the volunteers did much harm in this way.Mr. Calcraft
411 observed, that as the master would probably not come within the age fixed by the bill, it would be no great hardship on him to have his apprentice called out, particularly as the twenty-eight days service was not intended to be
411Lord Castlereagh
 persisted in taking the sense of the house.—After some further conversation, strangers were ordered to withdraw, but no division took place.Mr. Calcraft
 adverted to the words in the same clause, that 'no poor man who has more than one child' should be exempted from this service, though exempt from the regular militia; and proposed, in order to make the thing more precise and intelligible, to leave out the words 'more than one child,' and substitute 'less than three children.' This was agreed to.Mr. C. Wynne
 Stanhope and Mr. Vansittart objected to the scale of gradation in the imposition of fines.Mr. Spencer
 observed upon the necessity of proportioning the fines to the conditions of the different orders of the community: those belonging to what may be called the smaller gentry, would be induced to serve by a fine that would be sufficient to compel persons of an inferior description.Lord Castlereagh
l ridiculed the idea of compelling the small gentry to live for 28 days the life of a common soldier, herding with the lowest dregs of society, by a penalty of 30lMr. Windham
412, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and some other members, urged the expediency of proceeding as far as possible that night. The gallery was then cleared for a division, but the
412Lord Castlereagh
 informed the hon. baronet that the house had declared it "was due."The Speaker
 observed, that some disappointment must certainly exist in consequence of the postponement of the noble lord's motion; the more so, as in giving the notice on Monday, the noble lord had declared that the motion would certainly come on this day. With respect to the motion which stood for to-morrow, it related to a subject, the investigation of which it was most desirable no longer to defer.Lord H. Petty
 presented a Petition of the mayor, bailiffs, and burgesses of the town of Liverpool, in council assembled, setting forth, "That the petitioners have seen, with feelings of considerable regret, advertisements for meetings in several parts of the kingdom, for the purpose of agreeing to petitions against the measure recommended by a committee of the house for a temporary suspension of the use of grain in the Distilleries, as calculated to prove injurious to the agricultural interest of the country; and that, in the present state of our foreign relations, whilst so many of the ports of Europe are closed against us, rendering it impossible to procure a supply of corn from the continent of Europe, whilst in addition to this, the embargo which has taken place in the united states of America precludes us from obtaining any importations from thence, and whilst it remains an undisputed fact that this country has for many years past been dependant upon foreign supply for a considerable part of the subsistence of her inhabitants, more particularly in the populous town of Liverpool and county of Lancaster, the petitioners cannot but think it a measure of wise and prudent precaution to prevent the unnecessary consumption of the produce of our own soil, and, by a well-timed restriction, to guard against an evil of so great magnitude as must result from the failure of the usual means of supply; and therefore praying, that the house may proceed in the proposed measure to suspend the use of grain in the distilleries of the united kingdom, for such period, and under such restrictions, as to the house shall seem most proper and expedient"—The said Petitions were severally read and ordered to lie upon the table.General Tarleton
 applauded the humanity of the hon. and learned baronet, but hoped he would pardon him for stating that county stock ought not to be touched except in extreme cases.Mr. Shaw Lefevre
406, if any thing like an
406Mr. H. Lascelles
 then stated, that he would conclude by moving for the production of an order of the court of king's bench, for the discharge of a rule moved for in that court for a new trial in the action brought by the high bailiff of Westminster against sir Francis Burdett.—On the suggestion of the Speaker, however, who intimated that it was usual to give a formal notice of such a motion, Mr. Leycester abstained from any further remarks, and gave notice, that he would move for the production of this paper to-morrow.Mr. Leycester
404, adverting to the statement made on a
404Mr. Leycester
 was not prepared to make any motion; but as the hon. baronet had made his statement, he trusted they would allow him to make a counter statement, under the same circumstances. He was proceeding, when he was again called to order byMr. Leycester
 said a few words, in the course of which he expressed a wish, that his hon. and learned friend would withdraw his opposition to the introduction of the bill.Mr. Leycester
 entered his protest against being thought favourable to the principle of the bill, because he did not oppose its introduction.Mr. Croker
 approved of the measure.Mr. Curwen
 was of opinion, that the state of the country might be such, with relation to other powers, as to render it a precedent to adopt the recommendation of the committee.Mr. Curwen
 was afraid that by the introduction of such complicated arrangements, people would be so puzzled that they would not understand the law at all.Mr. Fuller
, after an eulogium on the industry and talents displayed by the noble lord in the chair of the committee, observed that he had been given to understand that a disposition had been manifested in a certain quarter to bring the parties who now differed so widely, nearer to each other in opinion. He thought, therefore, that the house would consult its own convenience, by allowing an opportunity for any arrangement to be made upon this subject.Mr. Barham
ll395 presented to the house, pursuant to their
ll395Mr. Lethbridge
, who observed, that the subject before the house was merely the time at which the report should be discussed.Mr. Brodrick
, who observed, that unless the hon. gent, would move for some paper, such observations could only lead to disorderly discussion.Mr. W. Smith
 spoke to order. Unless the hon. gent. meant to conclude with some motion, his observations were very irregular.Mr. W. Smith
 defended his hon. and learned friend from the charge of innovation. As to the measure being a novelty, every improvement was a novelty.—Leave was then given to bring in the bill.Mr. W. Smith
405 replied, that he had been that morning applied to, to postpone his motion to-morrow, relative to the Dardanelles, for the purpose of allowing the Local Militia bill to be proceeded with.
405Mr. W. Taylor
401 differed so completely from the hon. gent. who had just sat down, that he declared he had experienced the most unmixed satisfaction at what had fallen from the hon. and learned baronet. He well remembered that a great and la-
401Mr. Wilberforce
 reprobated this sort of hocus pocus by which the house was kept ignorant of what business would come before it. If the arrangement that seemed to have been made was carried into effect, then it would happen that the gentlemen who came down that night to listen to a discussion on the distilleries, would find themselves engaged in a debate on the local militia; and that to-morrow, those who would come to debate the Local Militia bill, would be surprised at finding themselves in a distillery.Mr. Windham
 contended, that in Ireland, and particularly in the province of Ulster, there was as much humanity on these subjects as in England.Sir G. Hill
 objected to the word "due" in the motion.Sir John Sinclair
 said, he could not help expressing surprise at what an hon. gent. (Mr. Herbert) had stated as to Ireland. He was at a loss to know in what part of Ireland the prisons were so comfortable, as to prove an inducement, to indolent persons wishing a confinement. He believed the gaols were so far from being commodious, that they rather excited horror and detestation, and many instances had occurred where men's toes were eaten by rats: was this the accommodation the hon. gent, thought so agreeable as to be prized by the Irish people?Sir John Newport
 presented a Petition from several owners and occupiers of lands resident in the county of Suffolk; setting forth, "That the petitioners are many of them owners, but the greater part of them occupiers of lands in a county where barley is the chief article of cultivation; and that it is with concern they learn that a Committee of the house has in its Report recommended the substitution of Sugar and Molasses, instead of barley and other grain, in the distilleries, which must be highly injurious to the agricultural interest of the country; and that the petitioners had trusted that the satisfactory and unanswerable reasons assigned by a committee of the house last year against the adoption of such an expedient would have set at rest its further agitation, and quieted the alarm it is fully calculated to produce; should the farmer be deprived of the certain market the distilleries afford, even for a time to be limited, it must tend to lower the price of grain, and damp the increasing spirit of agriculture; and that the petitioners, however strongly they may feel the distresses and the difficulties under which the West India trade at present labours, however anxious they may be for the adoption of any measure for its relief, still they cannot perceive that either justice, policy, or necessity requires that such relief should be administered to them at the sole and exclusive expence of the land, being a sacrifice of the more important interests of agriculture; and therefore praying the house not to allow such a bill to pass into a law."Mr. Gooch
llll stated the object of this bill, which was to prevent any settlement being gained by renting any dwelling under the value of 20llllColonel Stanley
 considered the bill highly objectionable, as increasing the difficulty of procuring settlements, which on the contrary, in the opinion of Judge Black-stone, lord Mansfield, and all other wise and great men who had written on the subject, should be made as easy as possible. It was the interest of every parish to relieve itself of a small burthen, and put a large one upon another; for, when a man with his family was removed from one parish to another, it was not a mere temporary burthen, but ultimately a continual burthen upon such parish. The most beneficial effects, in his opinion, would arise by facilitating the power of acquiring a settlement; and he thought, were a six months residence to entitle a pauper, to a settlement, it would be attended with the most beneficial effects, not only in lessening the poors' rates, but relieving the subject from the greatest oppression. As to removing Irish and Scotch paupers, in most instances it would be sending them to a place where they were altogether strangers, and they would be burthensome paupers, when they otherwise might become useful members of society.Sir S. Romilly
 thought, that as a measure for the regulation of the Poor Laws, the house might entertain this bill, although he had some objections to make to some of the clauses intended to be enacted by it. With respect to the clause empowering the removal of Irish and Scotch paupers, he thought the house could not entertain it for one moment; it would be too much to say, that a man, after a long, laborious, and industrious life, should be turned over from the parish which had been the scene of that life, to a place where no provision whatever was made for him.Mr. Lockhart
 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill, to limit the excessive depression of the Wages of persons employed in the weaving of Cotton. He was induced to this step, not from a conviction of the propriety of fixing the minimum of wages, but in compliance with the wishes of a numerous and respectable class of persons who were now suffering peculiar hardships, and who were at the same time supporting them with a patience and resolution which did them credit. The measure was proposed with the consent of the masters as well as of the journeymen, and he was sure that the house would be anxious to grant them every possible relief.Mr. Rose
426 replied, that it was intended that its operation should be limited to
426Mr. Rose
427 disapproved highly of the principle of the measure, and was anxious to make it known, that this disapprobation was founded upon a true regard to the interest of the work-people them-selves. The great cause of the distress at present felt, was not the oppression of the masters, but the shutting up of the foreign
427Sir Robert Peek
 said, that before fixing the minimum of wages, the right lion, gent, who moved for leave to bring in the bill, ought to equalize the abilities of the workmen.Mr. Thompson
 explained, that it was his intention to have fixed the minimum of wages not for the time but the quantity of work done. He repeated, that he had been induced to propose the measure, not from a conviction of its propriety, but in compliance with the wishes of the cotton weavers, backed with the consent of their employers.Mr. Rose
428 entirely agreed with those who thought that the house should manifest a disposition, which he was sure was universally felt, to accede, as far as a sense of duty would permit them, to the wishes of that numerous and respectable class of individuals whom his right hon. friend was anxious to relieve. He did not think that the present measure would be productive of advantage. The principle of the bill, which went to fix the minimum of wages, carried into operation, could do no good, and might do a great deal of harm. It would not have the effect of at all increasing the quantity of work, and it would diminish the number of persons employed in it, because only the best workmen would be retained. At the same time he was of opinion, that it was better that the cotton weavers should be disappointed after a discussion of the merits of their application in the house of commons,
428The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that after the manner in which the proposition had been received, he should not press it upon the house.Mr. Rose
 observed, that had the right hon. gent, persisted in his measure for fixing the minimum of wages, there was no reason why the maximum also should not have been fixed. He reminded the right hon. gent. of the observation of a celebrated writer on political economy, 'that commerce in this country had continued to prosper, notwithstanding the existence of a Board of Trade,' and recommended it to him to allow it to take its own course.Mr. Lascelles
432431430429 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given some time ago, to make a motion on the subject of the Distilleries. Previous to moving that the house should go into a committee, he would explain the nature of the Resolutions he meant to offer in that committee, and the nature and causes of the changes made in those resolutions since he had first announced them. The topics involved in the Report were important and momentous, and the highest authorities differed among themselves upon the principal points. The committee was appointed, in the first instance, to consider of the means of affording relief to the West India proprietors and merchants, and the order under which the committee assembled, directed the committee to inquire whether the most immediate and effectual means of relief would not be, to confine the Distilleries to the use of Sugar and Molasses alone. In the course of this inquiry, it became necessary to ascertain how far the agriculture of the country would be affected by such a restriction, and this investigation led to the knowledge of facts, which established the wisdom and necessity of the restric-
432431430429Lord Binning
433 (of Norfolk) agreed that this question ought to be set at rest. He was sorry to observe a practice of suspending the statute of Wm. and Mary, which was the best security of the agriculture of this country, by affording the means of disposing of the surplus produce. The breweries and distilleries took off this surplus. If their use of corn was stopped, the demand must be lessened, the price must fall, and the growth and supply must of course be diminished. The landed gentlemen did not seek to maintain corn at the highest possible price. All they sought was a sure sale and a saving price, without which the land would not be cultivated. The price this year was low till this committee had commenced its inquiries. It had recently risen in consequence of the agitation produced by the investigation of the committee. The Report itself allowed, that every permanent interference with the present established system of agriculture was injurious; and it expressed great reluctance at adopting even a temporary restraint. Here the hon. gent, entered into a detail of the management of barley farms. In this species of culture, and that of wheat, an increase of one fourth had taken place within 15 years. The importation had proportionally diminished, and the fluctuation of the price of corn had materially lessened. The measure went to check the established system
433Mr. Coke
437 could not agree with those who thought that the interests of the West Indian planters were to be thrown entirely out of consideration, and maintained that a case of the utmost distress had been made out by them. When the account of the American embargo arrived, he, along with others, as a deputation from the West Indian committee, waited on the chancellor of the exchequer to ask, Whether government would consent that the restrictions on the exportation of corn to the colonies should be taken off? and upon this being refused, it was suggested that sugar might be substituted for grain in the distilleries, as this would be only relieving them with the money that was sent to be paid to foreigners for corn. It ought to be remembered, that in former committees on this subject, the plan went to the breweries, and to the distillation of molasses; at present it went no further than the distilleries, and distillation from sugar, so that the measure was much simplified, and the financial difficulties in a great measure got rid of. It ought also to be kept in view, that the committee still continued its labours, and had a Report in forwardness pointing out a permanent plan of relief, by which any recourse to this measure in future would be rendered unnecessary. He denied that the system of agriculture would be deranged, for the crop of this year was in the ground, and before the next year's crop could come in, the measure would have answered its purpose, and of course cease. He also denied that the general interests of the country would be at all injured, since the quantity of corn thrown into the market would be so much less than what had been commonly imported. The hon. baronet opposite had not sufficiently distinguished between the effects of a temporary and a permanent measure. He allowed that if the plan was to be permanent, it would be injurious, but no such thing was in contemplation. If agriculture had increased, the population
437Mr. Marryatt
443vice versa442441 observed, that gentlemen had alluded to a compromise: he was not aware of any such compromise, nor had his noble friend, as far as he understood him, affirmed that any had taken place. If there had been any compromise, and any discredit attached to it, the hon. general had certainly shewn that he was no party to it, and that none of the discredit would rest with him. He understood his noble friend to have said, that he had postponed the resolutions on the former day, from an idea, arising from the nature of the objections, that a trial ought to be made whether the propositions might not be so framed as to conciliate gentlemen on both sides. But, he certainly had no recollection that his noble friend pretended that he could compromise the matter, nor had he any authority to do so. The hon. general had charged his noble friend with having left the distress of the sugar planters out of the question, though the committee had been expressly appointed to devise a plan for their relief. He did not think that his noble friend had departed from the character or spirit of the Report, for the measure was there recommended only with a view to the diminished supply of corn, and a power was accordingly recommended to be vested in the crown, to stop the suspension when the continuance of it should be inconveni-
443vice versa442441The Chancellor of the Exchequer
444 declared, that if he had not read the Resolutions proposed by the noble lord, he should have voted for the motion of going into the committee; but the reading of these Resolutions was sufficient to satisfy his mind as to the propriety of an opposite course. The gentlemen on the other side, had taken quite different routes to recommend the measure of the noble lord. One had pleaded for it as necessary to relieve the West India merchants, while another contended that it was called for in order to guard against scarcity. To show that the latter ground was erroneous, the right hon. gent. entered into a comparative statement of the prices of corn, at various periods, particularly in Ireland; and quoted several passages from the evidence taken before the committee, to prove that this ground was quite untenable. As to the relief of the West India merchants, he was as anxious for it as any man, but to the mode now proposed he strongly objected, and, in particular, because he did not think this mode could be effective. He would rather recommend some permanent relief for this deserving class of men, by reducing, for instance, the revenue to which they were subject. The West India merchants he thought peculiarly entitled to consideration; because, while they were subject to all the additional contributions consequent upon the war, they were not liable to profit by its results. For if, through our success, any colonies should be captured, the West India merchants were likely to suffer by the competition which they must experience from the produce of such colonies; and if defeated, those merchants would, in consequence, be excluded from an additional market. Thus, in the event
444Mr. Ponsonby
 stated, that the scarcity of the potatoe crops in that part of Ireland with which he was acquainted, had been such last year as to afford scarcely enough to spare for the ordinary cultivation or seed. The consequence therefore was, to produce a proportionable scarcity of corn, which he thought the measure under consideration calculated to alleviate, if not to remedy.Colonel Montgomery
446 stated, in the most unequivocal terms, that he meant to vote in opposition to his colleagues. His reasons were these; in the first place, he thought it to be contrary to all acknowledged maxims of agriculture to say, that we should prevent the use of grain in one of its regular channels, merely for the benefit of the West India colonies; and in the second place, if there were any ground for such a prohibition, it ought to be shewn, that the necessity of adopting such a measure arose from the dearth or scarcity, of grain, or some just cause for the apprehension that such a case was likely to happen. The corn of the country was, by the wisest and most experienced politicians, left in general to find its own level in the market, by the usual means of competition among the dealers. When there was a bad harvest, the price of grain advanced much higher than usual; there were always persons ready to import from foreign markets, and thus keep down the price whilst they promoted their own interests. But it never could be the interests of any state to be regardless of the interests of the farmer,
446Mr. Foster
 declared his sincere conviction of the dangerous tendency of the measure which was then before the house.Sir C. Burrell
 strenuously supported the motion. As an argument in its favour, he asserted that the price of grain was at present higher than in the scarcity of 1795, and as high as in the scarcity of 1800, when the distilleries were prohibited. Added to this, we had not at present any prospect of a foreign import; so that any means that tended to husband our present sources of supply it was adviseable to adopt.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed his satisfaction that the motion was withdrawn; but he could not omit this opportunity of stating his opinion, that the distress complained of arose from the suspension of foreign trade, which had taken place in consequence of the Orders in Council.Mr. A. Baring
425 hoped, if it was in the contemplation of any hon. gent, to move that
425Mr. R. Dundas
445 contended, that the fears of the landed interest were without founda-
445Mr. C. Ellis
 considered that grain being at too low a price, was to be looked upon as a serious evil, as well as its being exorbitantly advanced. If he saw that there was any probability of a dearth, or scarcity, he should then most cheerfully vote for any measure that was calculated to economise the article, and lower its price. As the case now stood, he could by no means think of voting for the proposition then before the house, it being in his judgment calculated in a great degree to ruin the farmer for the sake of affording some partial relief to the West India planters and merchants.Admiral Harvey
424 strongly objected to the bill, as completely and fundamentally altering the whole law of settlements; occupation or payment of rent was not required; it was enough that the pauper had a mere title to possession. He objected to the bill, not merely because it would introduce new litigation and expence, but as condemning as vagrants and criminals, persons who
424Mr. Horner
 agreed with almost every thing which had been said by the hon. gent, who had just sat down. But, however strong his conviction was of the impropriety of the principle on which this measure was to be founded, he thought the application of such a numerous and deserving class of individuals merited every attention; and perhaps in discussing the remedy which had been proposed by the right hon. gent, one less objectionable might be discovered.Mr. Horner
448 said this measure was expressly recommended by the committee, after an inquiry into the same subject had
448Mr. G. Hibbert
 declared, that he should be as happy as any man, if some relief could be granted in a proper way to the persons employed in the cotton manufacture, but he never could accede to a measure which went to fix the minimum of wages.Mr. Tierney
l said, that the expence of printing papers was a growing evil which ought to be corrected, as it amounted now to no less a sum than 90,000lMr. Bankes
 asserted, that the people of Ireland, and especially in the north, were very much distressed for provisions, which distress would, he maintained, render a measure of this nature necessary, whatever might be the state of the West Indian merchants.Sir A. Wellesley
439438 had understood that the question had been postponed yesterday, with a view to some compromise, but what that was he was yet to learn, for he saw from the agricultural gentlemen nothing but the most pointed opposition. But he should like to know by whom that compromise was made, or who authorized it? The committee was no party to such a compromise, and the hon. member for Norfolk had shewn no inclination to come into the noble lord's proposition. But, after all the delusion and all the clamour that had been excited on this subject, it appeared, from what the noble lord said, that the question was to be discussed without reference to the relief of the sugar planters! What had the committee been appointed for, but to consider of a mode of affording them relief? And was he now to abstain from stating their distresses? The advocates of the high price of provisions refused any relief to the planters till a scarcity should take place, when they would humanely permit them to share the profits they derived from the distress of the country. If the planters were to be relieved only by the calamity of the country, he wished they might be long -without relief. It had been said, that the colonies
439438General Gascoyne
 supported the bill.Mr. Graham
436435, considering the great importance of this proposition, thought that it ought at least to have come from one of the ministers of the crown, who must be in a peculiar manner responsible for the effects of it. He, notwithstanding, gave credit to the noble lord, for the manner in which he had brought it forward; but asked, how he had coma to change his opinion, and swerve from the Report in one day? However, he would not argue from the Report, but take the proposition, as it now stood. With respect to the lodging these discretionary powers in the
436435Mr. Curwen
 objected to the whole bill, as oppressive and injurious in its operation, and tending to increase the burthens upon parishes, already too great. With respect to passing Irish and Scotch paupers to their respective parishes, he thought it would be an act of great cruelty and injustice. He considered the encouragement of Friendly Societies as the best mode of reducing the poors rates, and therefore recommended them to the consideration of government. He concluded by moving, that the bill be read a second time this day six months.Mr. Curwen
 asked, whether it was meant that the operation of the bill should be general, or that it should be confined to those places where the weavers had petitioned for relief?Mr. Patteson
 supported the measure. The greatest possible calamity that could befal any country was a scarcity of corn. It must be considered, that for the last 18 years a very large importation of that article had taken place, and we ought to provide for the consequences that might arise from our being deprived of all foreign sources. There were already a great number of persons deprived of employ, so that we had need to guard against the additional calamity of scarcity. He knew of one instance, within these last six weeks, where no less than 1000 persons had been thrown out of work from one manufactory alone. He really believed too that the West India planters were a most injured set of people, and that some measure was necessary for their relief. The effect of this present measure would be to relieve both of these descriptions of individuals, and be attended with generally beneficial consequences.Mr. John Smith
l protested against the doctrine, that the members of the house of commons should be debarred from information, because this could not be communicated without incurring a certain ex-pence. Was there any man, for instance, who would regret the expence which had been incurred, in printing the papers relative to the transactions in the Carnatic? He admitted, that on the present occasion, it might not be necessary to print the voluminous mass of papers now upon the table; still, however, he thought that it would be better even to expend 10,000lMr. Whitbread
 was happy to find this measure objected to as it was, as he had troubled the house on a former occasion, and never heard any one support the law of settlement as it at present existed. He had laboured to carry into effect some measures of the kind, and the opinions he had heard this day would encourage him to further exertions. As to sending Irish and Scotch paupers to their parishes, he thought it highly objectionable, and if passed into a law, would be attended with the most grievous consequences: in Ireland, where there were no poor laws, the oppression would be excessive.—After a few further observations by general Mathew, Mr. Croker, and sir R. Peele, colonel Stanley declared, that he felt it his duty to take the sense of the house upon the bill. A division then took place, when there appeared; For the second reading 11; Against it 114. Majority against the bill 103.Mr. Whitbread
440 commented upon the contrast so glaringly manifested between the Report of the committee, and the speech of the noble lord who was its chairman. The Report recommending the measure for Great Britain, at the same time stated reasons conclusive on the impolicy of extending it to Ireland. On that part of the Report he certainly had not a different opinion; but it was with feelings of surprise he read a following recommendation to that house to restrict the impor-
440Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 was of opinion, that the whole of the poor laws should be repealed, but that as the present bill might be attended with partially beneficial effects, it ought to be suffered to go to a committee.Mr. Davies Giddy
 declared his opinion that the bill for which the right hon. gent. had moved, would, if carried into a law, have the most mischievous tendency, not only to the Cotton manufacturers, but to the persons for whose relief it was intended. Much of the distress that was at present felt by the Cotton Weavers, he conceived to arise, not from the wages being too low, but because at one time they were too high, a circumstance which induced more people to adopt this trade than there was a demand for, or than it could support; and were a minimum of wages now to be fixed, he was afraid that it would prove an inducement to ignorant persons to bring up their children in this line, and still further to overstock the market. He should be most happy could any other mode be devised of granting relief to the sufferers, but the one now proposed he considered so objectionable, that even in this early stage of the business, he was resolved to take the sense of the house upon it.Mr. Davies Giddy
—14.Majority for going into a Committee
—14.Majority for going into a Committee108Noes
108Noes122Ayes
122Ayes
—14.Majority for going into a Committee
—14.Majority for going into a Committee108Noes
108Noes122Ayes
122Ayes said, he had sat upon the committee for two months, and could not help expressing his surprise that the noble lord had brought forward such a measure. But unquestionably, this was not a measure of the committee which was instituted for the purpose of proposing relief to the West India planters, as they indeed seemed to be left entirely out of the question. His objection to the measure was, that, as to the West Indies, it was futile, and as to scarcity it was worse than nothing. Our importation of corn had been hitherto more than 700,000 quarters, but he argued that no scarcity was to be apprehended. He should like to know what effect this measure was likely to have before the next harvest. It was only telling the distillers that they must stop distilling from grain upon the 1st of July, the very time about which they would have done so, without any restraint whatever. The consequence of this measure would be, to produce scarcity instead of preventing it, as the distillers would use more grain between this time and the 1st of July, than they otherwise would have done.—14.Majority for going into a Committee
—14.Majority for going into a Committee108Noes
108Noes122Ayes
122Ayes
—14.Majority for going into a Committee
—14.Majority for going into a Committee108Noes
108Noes122Ayes
122AyesMr. W. Smith
447 declared that the principles laid down by the right hon. gent, who had just sat down, and by his right hon. friend (Mr. Ponsonby), need only be heard, to carry conviction to the mind of any dispassionate man. The committee, however, had been instructed to consider of the best means of affording relief to the West India planters, and to consider of that only, as it was imagined at least; but all on a sudden, and most conveniently for the wishes of the gentlemen on the other side (all but the chancellor of the exchequer for Ireland), the idea of a scarcity in the country darted upon their mind, some-
447Mr. Windham
 spoke against the measure, and stated the average of the price of corn for several years, in order to shew that the supporters of it were not justified in using such arguments in favour of their measure, from the state of these prices. If, however, the house proceeded into a committee, he should then take an opportunity of proposing some alteration in regard to the period.Sir H. Mildmay
l stated, that the papers moved for on the affairs of India consisted of no less than 5800 folio pages, and that the printing of them would cost 12,000lSir J. Anstruther
434 said, that he might have less objections than he had to the present measure, if he could be assured that it was founded upon a system of general policy, and not local interest; for he was there, not as a man locally interested by the views of any particular place, or any one set of men, but as one of the members of parliament for the united kingdom of G. Britain and Ireland, and as such he could not see any advantage to
434Sir John Sinclair
 was surprised at the statement, that the north of Ireland had recently experienced any material want of provisions, as the price of corn had not been for several months at all fluctuating at one of the greatest ports for the export of that article in Ireland, he meant Water-ford. If any scarcity existed in the north, he naturally concluded that such scarcity would have affected the price of corn at Waterford. The right hon. baronet generally deprecated the interposition of the legislature upon subjects of this nature. He thought such interposition, in almost every instance, extremely noxious. Indeed, experience had proved that nothing but imperious necessity could excuse it. To such interposition he believed it was owing that this country was not able to grow sufficient food for its population, as it formerly did. From the enactment of Mr. Parnell's act to the present time, the interposition he deprecated was found injurious. As to the rise which had recently taken place in the prices of sugar and corn, it appeared to him to proceed from the speculations likely to arise out of the existence of a committee upon this subject.Sir John Newport
 did not intend, when he came into the house, to have said any thing, but had resolved to leave the discussion to those who could do the subject so much more justice. But he could not avoid taking notice of the aspersions which had been cast on the country gentlemen by the hon. general under the gallery—a thing the less to be surprised at as coming from an avowed advocate of the Slave trade. The opposition to this measure, he observed, was founded on the clearest and most solid principles, and he most conscientiously joined in it. Trade might suffer for a time, without any great loss to the community, or without affecting in a material degree the general interests. But it was far otherwise with agriculture; when that was injured the whole country must be injured with it. Nothing, therefore, ought to come into competition with this grand national object. This measure, if passed, would derange the agricultural system, and change the whole method of cropping. The agricultural interests ought not, surely, to pay for the speculations of the colonists. On these ground?, he would oppose the measure. With respect to the imputations of the hon. general, he would leave it to others to give him a detailed answer.Mr. Gooch
 highly approved of the fur, candid, and manly part the noble lord had acted in this business, as well as the ability he had displayed in the conduct of it. It was known to all the world, that we could not live without importing corn, and in case of a failure of importation, which happened now, or of a scarcity, which might very soon happen, it must be the duty of the legislature to seek for the best substitutes they could procure. Here, then, it was proposed to make sugar a substitute for corn, which was likely to be scarce. He hoped the landed interest would not oppose so useful a plan.Sir W. Curtis
 joined in opposing the bill, which had a direct tendency to ruin the manufactures, and to increase the distresses of those employed in them. For these distresses he felt as much as any man, but he thought the house ought to be extremely cautious in raising hopes which must infallibly end in disappointment. The inevitable consequence of the present measure, if carried into effect, would be, that the manufacturer would discharge a number of his workmen, by' which they would be reduced to complete misery.Lord Milton
474 wished to know from the hon. gent. whether the present Bill was to embrace all the compensation? If it was not so, he confessed he should be disposed to object to any plan that would take from the other, house its right of inter-
474Mr. Bankes
 replied, that it certainly was not his intention to incorporate the arrears due to Mr. Palmer with the grant of per-centage, to be authorized by the Bill for which he had moved. He conceived, that the proper way of providing for the arrears of the per-centage would be by a vote of the house in the committee of supply.Mr. Lethbridge
 wished to know out of what fund it was proposed to take these arrears.Mr. Bankes
 replied, that that would be for the house itself to determine whenever it should regularly come before it; but if he might hazard a conjecture, he should be inclined to think, that the Post Office Revenues, which had been so considerably benefited by Mr. Palmer's invention, would be the fittest source to draw upon, for whatever further compensation it might be deemed necessary to remunerate him with.Mr. Lethbridge
475 then said, that certainly if the house still considered the original Agreement as valid and binding, the Arrears could only be taken out of that revenue: now, that revenue was yearly carried to the Consolidated Fund, and therefore out of that fund the arrears must in fact be taken. But he believed that that could only be done by an act of parliament, and not by a vote of the house. He might quote many precedents in support of this opinion, and indeed there was even one in the present session, namely, the pension to lord Lake, which was granted both retrospectively and prospectively, and part of which was in fact for the payment of a debt or arrears from 1803. This mode, then, was not only supported by precedent, but was also important in another point of view, as affording the other house of parliament, possessed of coordinate powers, an opportunity of investigating the whole Claims of Mr. Palmer, and thus reviewing the subject, and per-
475Mr. Bankes
 opposed the remuneration altogether. He thought Mr. Palmer, by his own misconduct, had violated the principles of his Agreement, and forfeited his claim to the remuneration. Justice was always represented with a scale in one hand and a sword in the other. He never could divest that goddess of her attributes, or think that reward should take the place of punishment.Mr. Marryat
477476 rose to move his promised Resolutions respecting the Expedition to the Dardanelles, but from the manner in which his speech was delivered, it was impossible, with the utmost attention, to catch more of it than suffices for a mere summary, he began by observing, that from the public notice which this Expedition, with all the circumstances connected with it, had excited, it was necessary that some inquiry should be instituted concerning it, a thing equally due to those who had planned it, and those to whom the execution had been entrusted. He stated, that before he had seen these Papers, he was rather inclined to think favourably at least of the object of the expedition; but he was now of opinion that it was founded
477476Mr. Taylor
487486485484483 had listened with great attention to the statement which the right hon. gent, had made in defence of himself and his colleagues, and could not help being surprised at the manner in which he had kept to the declaration which he had made at the outset, that he would discard from his mind every idea of justification by recrimination. The right hon. gent, had very properly, in his division of
487486485484483Mr. Secretary Canning
482481480479478 expressed the satisfaction which he felt, after such repeated delays, in at length finding the motion substantially before the house, and in such a shape as to render it tangible. Far was he from complaining of the institution of inquiries of this nature. On the contrary, he deemed it most desirable, that those men who had exercised public functions should be called upon, in the face of the house and the country, to account for their conduct. More particularly were he and his colleagues gratified by the institution of the present enquiry, which would enable them to remove any unfavourable impression with respect to their conduct in this affair, if such impression existed, although if it did, he was at a loss how to conceive in what it could have originated. As well sis he could understand his majesty's present ministers, they had expressly disclaimed any participation in the institution of this enquiry, still, however, thinking it their duty to consent to it, and to allow of the production of the papers on which it was to be founded. All this was right and judicious enough. If he had any complaint against them, it was, that although they had never themselves asked for or appeared to warrant an enquiry, they had repeatedly, by insinuations and collateral arguments, endeavoured to produce a feeling against his majesty's late government, which it was impossible that at the time they could combat. He alluded particularly to the observations of the right hon. secretary of state for the foreign department, who, in a moment, certainly not of deliberation, but of violence and impetuosity, had accused the late administration of conduct, of which the official documents in his possession must have convinced him that they were innocent. That right hon. gent, had complained that his majesty's late government, at the requisition of the court of Petersburgh, made a diversion in the south of Europe, with ships without troops, when that requisition was for both ships and troops. No argument was necessary on this occasion. Let the house look at the papers on the table, and they
482481480479478Mr. T. Grenville
argumentum ad hominem;488 observed, that, gentlemen semed to consider a treaty as binding, notwithstanding any change of circumstances that might arise. Now, he considered that a treaty was only binding as to what was within the purview of that treaty; a friend might, for instance, become our very worst enemy by change of circumstances. Was it to be supposed, then, that under every circumstance, or whatever might be the conduct of the power to which we were allied, we were still to adhere to it as firmly as if it not only fulfilled the letter and the spirit of the
argumentum ad hominem;488Mr. Windham
 endeavoured strenuously to impress the house with an idea of the impolicy of the measure.Colonel Wood
 then moved, that the house should resolve itself into a Committee of the whole house, to consider further of the Report which, upon the 13th day of April last, was made from the Committee appointed to enquire and report how far, and under what circumstances, it may be practicable and expedient to confine the Distilleries of the united kingdom, or of any part of the united kingdom, to the use of Sugar and Molasses only; and also what other provision can be made for the relief of the Growers of Sugar in the British West India colonies.Lord Binning
495494 could not let slip any opportunity of opposing a measure so mischievous
495494Mr. Coke
497496 would wish the house to take up this question upon a much wider ground than the hon. gentlemen who opposed it seemed to do. That the West India planters had made out their case, nobody
497496Mr. Rose
 allowed the distress of the West India Planters and Merchants, and would be ready to give them relief in any other way than this. He had suggested for that purpose a reduction of the duty on such sugar as should be employed in the feeding of cattle. But, whilst he was anxious to afford relief to the West Indies, he could not consent to such a measure as the present, which would press exclusively on the landed interest. The present price of barley was not extraordinary, considering the shortness of the last crop. For these reasons he should oppose the Speaker's leaving the Chair.Sir W. W. Wynne
521 said, that with reference to the note produced by his hon. friend who spoke last but one, he could assure him, on his honour, that he never had interfered in it directly cir indirectly. He hoped he was not weak enough, after having seen, on the last night this question was discussed, so many of his friends who had generally voted with him, differ from him upon it, to attempt to make it a party business; and he assured him on his honour he was not indiscreet enough to give his assent to such a letter. He thought this explanation was warranted, from the confidence placed in him by his colleagues. An hon. gent, had thought proper to find fault with what had fallen from him on a former occasion respecting Ireland; all he. could say was, that it was justified by the language of the chancellor of the exchequer of Ireland, who said, that the Union should not be violated for conve-
521Mr. Ponsonby
536535ss534533sd.sdssds532sdsssssssssss531530529 said, he was ready to do justice to the motives of the noble lord (Binning) who brought forward the proposed measure of prohibiting the grain distillery, and to the motives of the chancellor of the exchequer also, who appeared determined to give it his most strenuous support; but that he differed from them so widely in opinion upon the subject, that instead of viewing it as a measure of sound policy, or as a wise expedient for a special purpose, he considered it in every point of view most injudicious, and likely to be productive of incalculable mischief. It appeared to him extraordinary, after the division of the other night, when the question was carried by a majority of only 14, that his majesty's ministers should think it adviseable to persist in pressing the subject further upon the consideration of the house. It was not usual for ministers to do so upon such a division, and it was still more extraordinary upon such
536535ss534533sd.sdssds532sdsssssssssss531530529Mr. Western
537 disclaimed the idea of interfering unnecessarily with agriculture. The only question in his mind was, whether the circumstances of the present time were such as to justify or call for such interference as that now proposed. He had not at any time given countenance to the idea of the existence of a scarcity; but from the deficiency of the last harvest in Scotland, and the failure of the crops of potatoes and oats in Ireland, he held that we were in a state of imperfect supply. In this state of imperfect supply, and under the circumstances hi
537The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred in the general principle laid down by his right hon. friend the chancellor of the exchequer for Ireland, as to the propriety of not interfering with the com laws, an interference, in general, which could not be productive of any beneficial consequence. But, at the same time, he must allow that there were extreme cases, in which it would be necessary to resort to such interference. The question, therefore, was, whether the present circumstances of this country were such as to constitute a case of that description? The late crops of barley and oats had been short, but not the crop of wheat. Though there was no danger of scarcity at present, yet they ought to look to the future, and in the event of a short crop this season, they would not be justified in not leaving to the executive government the power of giving to the public consumption that amount of corn which was consumed in the distilleries. He did not agree either with those who supported this as a colonial measure, or with those who defended it on the score of existing or apprehended scarcity, but with a view to the great national interests which it was calculated to promote.Mr. R. Dundas
528 (Solicitor-General of Scotland) admited that it would be a most foolish policy to relieve one set of men at the expence of another class of the community. When he considered, however, the facts stated in the Report upon the, table, and what he knew of the state of the crop, particularly in Scotland, he thought it would be a measure of prudence to stop the distillation from grain, not merely from the beginning of July, as had been proposed by the noble lord, but if possible from the beginning of June. This opinion he had formed some months ago, altogether independent of the present situation of the West Indian planters, He
528Mr. Boyle
527526525524523522 said, he had never felt more surprize at any proceeding in parliament, than at the warmth of opposition with which he had seen this measure met, and he particularly thought the objections to the mode in which it had been brought forward were ill founded. It had been said, that the house had been taken by surprize, and that, out of a Committee instituted for the purpose of enquiring into and suggesting remedies for the distresses of the West India Planters, had arisen a proposition materially affecting the agriculture of the kingdom, a proposition which they were not competent to entertain or to judge of, and which the house could not have looked for from a committee so constituted. A bare reference to the appointment of the Committee would prove the fallacy of this representation. The Committee is expressly appointed to 'enquire and report how far it may be 'practicable and expedient to confine the 'Distilleries of the united kingdom to the 'use of Sugar and Molasses only, and also 'what other provision can be made for
527526525524523522Mr. G. Hibbert
520"But this is your affair—adieu.""Ruin, we own, is just in view;"How strong were those, how weak am I;"Older and abler pass'd you by;"See, all your friends are in the rear.""Be comforted; relief is near;"It grieves my heart to see you thus:519518517516Is of the same opinion still.A man convinc'd against his will,515514513512511510509508† But supposing it were possible for the planter to reduce his crop, the consequence must be, that the exportation from this country, and the shipping employed, must undergo a similar diminution. How far this may touch the vital interest of Great Britain, will best appear from the consideration of what our enemy is aiming chiefly to destroy,—our commerce and navy.***507***506***505504ss503***502ss501***500499498*** rose and said;520"But this is your affair—adieu.""Ruin, we own, is just in view;"How strong were those, how weak am I;"Older and abler pass'd you by;"See, all your friends are in the rear.""Be comforted; relief is near;"It grieves my heart to see you thus:519518517516Is of the same opinion still.A man convinc'd against his will,515514513512511510509508† But supposing it were possible for the planter to reduce his crop, the consequence must be, that the exportation from this country, and the shipping employed, must undergo a similar diminution. How far this may touch the vital interest of Great Britain, will best appear from the consideration of what our enemy is aiming chiefly to destroy,—our commerce and navy.***507***506***505504ss503***502ss501***500499498***Mr. Barham
538 reminded the house that the right hon. gent, who had just sat down, had not, from the beginning to the end of his speech, said one word of granting relief to the West India planters. He had now placed the planters entirely out of sight, and recommended the measure on the ground of a scarcity which every one knew did not exist; a scarcity which his majesty's chancellor of the exchequer for
538Mr. Whitbread
 admitted that he had some time since made a communication to the chancellor of the exchequer, of his apprehension of an eventual scarcity in Norfolk. This was now several months, since. He strongly protested against the adoption of this measure, which was calculated to be materially prejudicial to the landed interest of the country, whilst at the same time it was in its very nature inadequate to the end proposed, that of affording any thing like substantial relief to the West India colonies and traders.Mr. W. Smith
 declared that he thought there was reason to congratulate the house on the prospect which it then had of affording even a temporary relief to the West India planters; and endeavoured to convince the house that there was something like a spirit of party in the opposition to the question.Mr. Wilberforce
l professed to feel as deeply as any man for the present distress of the West Indian planters, and to be most anxious that some relief should be granted them; but he thought this relief might be much better given by a reduction of the present duties on sugar, by a relaxation of the navigation act, or by advancing them a sum of money as had been done in one instance before. He hoped, however, that in order to relieve the West Indian planters, the house would not consent to derange the whole of the existing agricultural system of the country. He could not consent to an interference which would derange the whole system of British agriculture, on the faith of which sytsem 11,000 acres had been recently brought into cultivation. This increase of culture would not be kept up if the encouragement of a fair market was not suffered to operate. The land bore a vast proportion of the public burthens, poor tax 7,000,000lSir H. Mildmay
 stated, that the practical inconvenience to which he now alluded was, an execution having been sent into his house, for what were said to have been expences incurred in taking the election for Westminster; for which he had not been a candidate, and of his nomination, or indeed election, to which he was almost a stranger till the event had taken place. The ground of the decision, too, was the fact of his having taken his seat in that house.Sir F. Burdett
546 apprehended that his learned friend opposite, (sir A. Pigott), had not been in the house on the former night, when this case was brought forward, He had then stated, that whatever the decision might have been, the house was not in a condition to give any redress. The hon. baronet then stated, that the direction of the noble and learned judge was, that the person who appeared for sir F. Burdett and claimed seats for his clerks, should be adopted as his agent; because the hon. baronet had since taken his seat in consequence of that election. He (Mr. Perceval) then stated, as he did now, that the house was not in a condition to take advantage of this fact. Had this been the direction of the Judge, the direct and regular road of proceeding would have been to have applied by writ of error, or on the ground of misdirection on the part of the judge; if wrong or right, the ground of the decision would then have appeared on the record, and would have been seen by the house. The hon. baronet's counsel, however, not having adopted that mode, but having moved for a new trial, which had been refused, no way now remained for bringing the matter with effect before the house. It now appeared not to be a case of privilege, in which a member of that house, as such, was interested; but a common case of
546The Chancellor of the Exchequer
545, adverting to the communication which he had thought it his duty to make to the house on a former night, relative to certain proceedings in one of the courts below, which appeared to him to trench upon the Privileges of that house, informed the house that the practical consequences, for which it had been recommended to him to wait, had now taken place. He assured the house, that in bringing this question again before the house he had no interest in it, but what any other member would, and ought to feel, upon a subject affecting
545Sir Francis Burdett
 thought it impossible for the house to entertain a question on which they had no authentic information, the; recommendation of the judge, which could alone form the ground of the proceeding, not having been entered upon the record.Mr. Bathurst
549 said, the sources from, whence he derived his information as to the recommendation of the judge, were the notes of the short-hand writer employed to take down the trial, and the information of his counsel. He esteemed these as affording him sufficient foundation for bringing the matter before the house. The only thing he had submitted to the house was the instruction of the judge; that the circumstance of his taking his seat, a thing which was incumbent on him, was such an approval and ratification of the proceedings had under the election, as must subject him to the expence of the hustings. He felt himself by no means interested in the fate of this discussion. He esteemed it to be the cause of the house; and if he had taken a bill of exceptions.
549Sir Francis Burdett
 began by observing, that whenever a question of such magnitude as the present was brought before the house, it was in the greatest degree desirable that the deliberation upon such a question should be conducted in a manner best calculated.—Here the right hon. secretary was interrupted by a general cry of order! chair!Mr. Secretary Canning
 then proceeded to enforce the necessity of moderation and good temper in the discussion of a question like the present. The right hon. mover was himself an example of the moderation he so much recommended; and he trusted that the same temperate manner which had marked the right hon. gent.'s conduct that night, would, for the remainder of it, influence all that might be said on either side of the house, during the remainder of the debate.—Here the cry of chair! order! was renewed; whenMr. Secretary Canning
575574573 then continued, and observed, that if he and his colleagues wished to go to a silent vote on this question, it was certainly not from any want of disposition to shew respect to the right hon. gent. who had brought forward the business in so able, eloquent, and can-
575574573Mr. Secretary Canning
 declared, that he never would give his concurrence to a measure, which, sooner or later, would endanger the Protestant establishment, by placing power in the hands of those, whose principal object it was to make converts to their own erroneous persuasion. He thought it most impolitic to bring forward, at such a crisis as the present, a measure which he knew to be generally obnoxious throughout the country, and should therefore vote against the motion.Lord Pollington
589588587586585584583582581580579, (knight of Kerry) said: Sir, I must acknowledge that, after the manner in which this question has been opened and supported, when no argument has been used against the motion, to offer any further observations in its favour, may appear a wanton intrusion on your time. However, as an unfavourable decision is foreseen, I should consider myself insensible to the duty I owe to my own country, and to the empire, if I did not express, in the strongest manner I can command, my conviction of the necessity, not merely of discussion, but of concession, on this most important subject. The right hon. gent. compelled to acknowledge the talents, the eloquence, and the moderation of my right hon. friend, has prudently abstained from, answering him, and has preferred to reply, by anticipation, to the speeches of others, in which he prophesies, that there will not appear the same moderation. Sir, if I abstain from that warmth, which this subject naturally excites, it is, because founded in justice, reason and truth, as I conceive the cause of the petitioners to be,
589588587586585584583582581580579Mr. Fitzgerald
591590.—Sir; I will endeavour to detain the house as short a time as possible. But I feel that I should deserve reproach, were I to give a silent vote upon the present occasion. I deprecate and dread the effect on the public mind, of discussing a question of so delicate and important a nature. The question is no other than this: are the catholics of Ireland—four millions of his majesty's subjects—in a state of freedom or of slavery? Are they to be considered in a state of proscription? I cannot conceive a question of which the agitation is better calculated to shake our efforts in the common cause. I must, however, do justice to the candour, manliness, and moderation of the right hon. gent, who brought forward the motion; for certainly the mode in which he delivered his opinions was well calculated to produce a spirit of conciliation. But, however much I deprecate the present discussion, so far from wishing to keep this question out of my view, I shall always adhere to the principles maintained by my late right honourable friend (Mr. Pitt) on the subject, and be ready to deliver my opinion whenever it is agitated. The conduct of that great man and his colleagues was very different from that of the gentlemen opposite. He went out of place, because he found he could not procure for the Catholics what he thought they were well entitled to; but, when out of office, he never embarrassed the government by agitating the question. The principles of the gentlemen opposite, on the other hand, led them to agitate and support the question to the extreme, when out of power; and to compromise and abandon it when in power, not with any view to the safety of the country, but for the safety of their own offices. If those gentlemen wish to shew that they are desirous of defending the country against her enemies, let them not bring forward a question, the agitation of which can have only the effect of increasing the number of her enemies. In their former attempts to bring on this question, they had failed. And when they came into office, they chose to avoid the main question, and to resort to the contemptible subterfuge of
591590Lord Castlereagh
618617616615in limine,614613612611610609608607606.—Sir; the hon. member who spoke last but one (Mr. Wilber-force), made a declaration which gave me much satisfaction: he said, 'that it was time for him to speak out.' Nothing ever gave me more pleasure; for in hearing his speeches, I confess I have often attended to them, but could never yet attain his perfect meaning. At the same time, I must confess, that there was some part of his speech which rather surprised me. He said, that he was a prodigious friend to the education of the Catholics, while he was an enemy to their claims in the full extent in which they had preferred them. I endeavoured to discover what was the conduct of that hon. gent, upon a late occasion, as to the education of the Catholic clergy, and I find, that he voted for the smaller sum instead of the larger for that purpose. Now, this is a strange mode of shewing his wish for the encouragement of that education. He acknowledged that he refused to grant the prayer of the petition, with prodigious pain to himself, and yet he loaded the Catholics with all sorts of epithets. I never saw a request denied to a suppliant with more apparent coldness and indifference in all my life. But he told us, there were circumstances and occasions when it was very unfit to discuss questions of this sort, and that they were attended with infinite mischief, because he is convinced that the majority of the people of this country, and of Scotland, are
618617616615in limine,614613612611610609608607606Mr. G. Ponsonby
619 in explanation, said; Nothing, in the shape of a pledge, or any sort of understanding, took place between the government and the Catholics, which, could possibly fetter the discretion of parliament on the subject of the Catholic claims prior to the union. As to the two papers which were circulated among the Catholics of Ireland, and which have been considered as proceeding from the union, it is observable, from the papers themselves, they were not intended for the public eye. One of these papers is stated to contain a declaration, that those who then, and on that occasion, retired from the public service, considered themselves as pledged not to accept any office in government, until the Catholic question was carried in favour of the Catholics. Where can the house see that paper in an authentic shape? It was never issued here in such a shape as to make any individual at party to it in any regular manner. With respect to the other paper, I did state, that although that paper was not drawn up as an official communication, my lord Cornwallis communicated it to the Catholics in Ireland, as that which was understood to be descriptive of the feelings of those who retired from office. That is to say, that paper, so communicated by my lord Cornwallis to the Catholics of Ireland, contained what were supposed to be the sentiments of certain individuals who had then recently retired from government, who had felt themselves unable to bring that subject forward with advantage, or with any prospect of success. But the house will not forget that those very gentlemen, who, retired from their situations in government, because they could not succeed in their object in favour of the Catholics, stated, most unequivocally, that if the Catholic claims should be urged, hostilely to government, those very individuals who thus retired from government, not only would not support, but would strenuously oppose the assertion of such claims. Now, as to the other point to which the right hon. gent. has alluded, as to the administration of the duke of Bedford, he has told us that he, and not the duke of Bedford, was chiefly instrumental in advising this claim to be made; and even he admits, that the answer of the government of this country was, that they did not think
619Lord Castlereagh
 expressed a particular wish to know upon what authority the right hon. gent. (Mr. Ponsonby) grounded his statement relative to the disposition of the Irish clergy as to the future appointment of their Bishops; as that circumstance, if well founded, must serve to remove a principal objection to the Catholic claims?Mr. Yorke
 answered, that he made the statement upon the authority of Dr. Milner, who was a Catholic Bishop in this country, and who was authorised by the Catholic Bishops of Ireland to make the proposition, in case the measure of Catholic Emancipation should be acceded to. The proposition was this, that the person to be nominated to any vacant bishopric should be submitted for the king's approbation; and, that if the approbation was refused, another person should be proposed, and so on in succession, until his majesty's approbation should be obtained, so that the appointment should finally rest with the king.Mr. Ponsonby
625624623demandaccept622621620.—Sir; considering the lateness of the night, and the state, of this question, as it stands upon the arguments which have been urged on either side, I think it will be unnecessary for me to detain the house any considerable length of time; I shall therefore compress what I have to say upon the subject as much as I can. The right hon. gent. (Mr. Ponsonby), was indignant that this subject should be taken up by a gentleman on the ether side of the house as a party question, and he himself disclaims party feelings and party motives in the discussion of it. I can only say, that gentlemen on the other side of the house can have no reason to be surprised that some
625624623demandaccept622621620The Chancellor of the Exchequer
637 rose, amidst a general call for the question, and, having obtained a hearing, spoke to the following effect:—Sir, I think it not a little extraordinary, upon a subject of such vast importance to the Irish nation, and to the British empire, that gentlemen are so anxious to come to a decision upon the question, that they will not allow every one to deliver their sentiments upon it.—Sir, it is a subject which, in the present momentous crisis, calls most imperiously for the sentiments not only of the Irish members, and those of the British representation, but it does also demand at least some notice from the government. It is therefore with very great surprise, not unmixed with regret, that I have not heard from ministers any one argument against the claims of the petitioners; but what has created in my mind greater surprise, and made more impression on me, is, that not one British member has condescended to offer one single argument against the Petition. I take it for granted, therefore, that they have none to offer—if they had, an appeal for amelioration and protection from four millions and a half of your fellow subjects, would not be met with silence. Is this the way, I ask, in which you mean to pass it over? I should hope not. I should hope that you will not let it go forth to the Catholics of Ireland, that upon a petition stating disabilities and grievances, which, as subjects of the empire, they labour under; and praying that those disabilities might be removed, you dismissed those
637Colonel Hutchinson
.—Sir, I am sorry to find this house so anxious to come to a division on the question. I am also concerned, that, notwithstanding what has been urged by the right hon. gent, who so ably, so eloquently, and so liberally brought forward the claims of the petitioners, the house is determined to meet them with a silent vote. After the very handsome manner in which that right hon. gent. has, on the part of the Catholics, stated their readiness to vest in his majesty the supreme authority of nominating their bishops, I say I should have hoped this house would have gone into a committee. Ireland, however, has nothing to expect from the liberality or justice of the united parliament. [Here lord Castlereagh smiled.] I am sorry to see the noble lord laughing. He has, I assure him, not much cause for his mirth; for there is not an Irish county, town, or borough, that has not rejected him. The Irish people disown him. I should not have said so much of the noble lord, if it had not been for that laugh of scorn which he exhibited. The question, sir, is a serious one, and I do know there are many gentlemen who think differently from the noble lord, and who wish to speak upon the subject, I hope therefore that the house will agree to adjourn the debate.General Montagu Matthew
 again rose, and said, that he had to the best of his judgment given his opinion, and that he was willing to appeal to the house; or, if he was in error, to request their instructions.The Speaker
 rose and said, that he felt it to be his duty to answer the appeal that had been made to the chair. He did think, that until the numbers which were the result of any division had been announced from the chair, the question was open to debate.The Speaker
 said, after what had passed in allusion to himself, it was necessary for him to put the hon. baronet right as to what he had stated on a former night. What he said was, that when any practical inconvenience did arise, if the hon. baronet continued to think that it involved a question of privilege, he should in that event lose no time in applying to the house. He had no hesitation in saying, that if any judge should recommend to a jury what could be construed into a breach of the privileges of that house, it was the duty of the house to resist, and to guide their course according to circumstances. As there was no motion before the house, he should only suggest two different modes of proceeding, both of which had been adopted in the reign of Charles 2. One was in the case of judge Weston, where an impeachment was ordered; and the other in the same reign, where that measure not being deemed necessary, the matter was allowed to drop without any further discussion. Those who thought the present a case of the most serious nature, would probably be of opinion, that the former of these was the preferable mode of proceeding; while others again might be inclined to think that the latter was the most desirable way of disposing of the present question. He had stated what were the modes of proceeding; and it was for the house to say, whether in this case the more or less serious mode ought to be adopted.The Speaker
 in explanation.—What I stated was, that it was not the intention of myself and my friends, when in office, to bring the Catholic emancipation forward as a cabinet question. But that we reserved to ourselves the right, as members of parliament, of voting in its favour, when it should be brought forward by others.Lord Henry Petty
Immemor, struis domos.'Locas sub ipsum furens, et sepulchri'Secanda marmora595594593in toto592.—Sir, I entirely concur with the right hon. gent, on the opposite side, who has recommended us to follow the temperate example of the eloquent mover of the question; but I am sorry to say, I do not t: ink his friends seem to have profited by his admonition. If he
Immemor, struis domos.'Locas sub ipsum furens, et sepulchri'Secanda marmora595594593in toto592Lord Henry Petty
l.l.547 said, it appeared to him, notwithstanding what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend, and from the right hon. and learned gent. opposite, that the present was a question of privilege. He could not admit of the doctrine, that the house of commons was not entitled to interfere in the acts of omission or commission of the courts below, so far as the privileges of the members of that house were concerned. The case was this; the worthy baronet was returned without his knowledge, and without any previous consent on his part: the returning officer had no right to make a demand on any candidate for hustings; but a person whom he supposed to be the agent of sir F. Burdett having made use of
l.l.547Mr. Tierney
572571*570esto perpetua.569568567566565564l.l.l.563562561560quoadquoad559558557***556555554553552551550 then moved, "That the Petition of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, whose names are thereunto subscribed, on behalf of themselves, and of others his majesty's subjects professing the Roman Catholic religion, which was presented to the house upon Monday last (see p. 489) and then ordered to lie upon the table, might be again read."—The Petition was read accordingly; after which the right honourable gentleman again rose and addressed the house as follows:—"Mr. Speaker; the Petition which the house has just heard read contains the sentiments of the Catholics of Ireland. Not only that Petition, but the other petitions presented this day, speak the sense of that body. I may therefore fairly assume, in the course of what I have to say, that it does speak the sentiments of four fifths of the Irish population. The Petitions come from a considerable portion of your electors, having political power; forming a part of the United Kingdom; and applying to the constitutional organ for a legitimate object. In discussing the merits of the petitioners' claims, I should recommend to gentlemen to avoid any intemperate language, and to adopt a spirit of concord, that nothing may pass in debate which shall sharpen the public mind. Whatever decision the house may come to, upon the motion which I shall have the honour to propose, for going into
572571*570esto perpetua.569568567566565564l.l.l.563562561560quoadquoad559558557***556555554553552551550Mr. Grattan
.—I trust the house will yield to the motion of my honourable friend. I know many Irish members would speak, if the debate were adjourned; and they can throw new light upon the subject.Mr. R. Martin
605.—I confess, sir, I have never felt more pungent regret than at the discussion of this evening. Notwithstanding what has been said about moderation and calmness, I have never heard more inflammatory language, uttered with a calm voice and a sermonic tone, than what has come from the gentlemen on the other side of the house. Nothing like it has been uttered for a century within these walls. I cannot congratulate one of these right hon. gentlemen (Mr. Canning) on the speech which he has made, on the sentiments he has uttered, or on the cheers which he has received. Whatever may be his feelings of triumph on this occasion, I do not envy him. From the course which he and his colleagues have chosen to take, it appears to me, however, that the present rejection of the Catholic claims may be considered as final. They will not be again brought before parliament: let them mark my prediction. The Catholics will no longer trust you with the bait of a Petition. They will no longer expose themselves to the mortification and insult of having their Petition rejected without even a discussion of their claims. Nothing can be more absurd, or more distant from truth, than the assertion that the Catholic Petition has been brought forward by a party. The Catholics
605Mr. Richard Martin
 said, that the person who had been held as sir Francis's agent had called on the high bailiff, and, in the name of sir Francis, declared that he would not pay for the hustings; yet that this same person, day after day, asked, obtained, and availed himself of, the advantage of seats for the check-clerks, inspectors, &c. who were to attend to the hon. baronet's interests in the election. The learned gent, did not pretend to say what was the recommendation of the judge; but it was hardly probable, that it was such as had been represented, else a new trial, which had been moved for, would have been granted.Mr. Leycester
 presented a petition from the Roman Catholic inhabitants of the county of Wexford, praying to be relieved from the disabilities under which the Catholic body labour.—Sir John Newport presented a similar petition from the Catholic inhabitants of the city of Waterford.—Mr. Butler presented a similar petition from the Catholic inhabitants of the county and city of Kilkenny.—Mr. M. Fitzgerald presented a similar petition from the Catholic inhabitants of the county of Kerry.—Mr. Shaw presented a petition from the lord mayor, aldermen, and common council, of the city of Dublin against the Roman-catholic Claims. All which were ordered to lie on the table.Mr. Sheridan
626.—Sir; I shall not now trespass on the patience of the house, for two reasons: first, because it is much too late to expect attention; secondly, that if it were not, there are others better entitled
626Mr. Whitbread
636635634633632631630629628627 then continued:—I am not disposed, sir, to take the sense of the house upon the question of adjournment, for, to myself, individually, it is no great inconvenience to proceed, because what I have to say, is but short, and because it is chiefly in answer to what has fallen from the right hon. gent, who has just sat down, and who is the leading minister of the crown on some occasions; but, who, in connection with his colleagues, seems to have wished to have passed over in silence this question, after the eloquent, the wise, and, to my mind, convincing speech of my right hon. friend; that silence which followed it bespoke its character, which was, that it was unanswerable; the silence however, was, at last, broken; lest ministers should appear to the world incapable of giving it an answer; but it is extraordinary that such answer should come, not from the minister who is hostile, but one whom I believe to be, in his heart, friendly, to the measure. But although the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, and a noble lord in the other house of parliament (lord Hawkesbury), are averse from granting any concession whatever to the Catholics, at any time whatever, yet the right hon. gent. will give me leave to tell him, that notwithstanding the present plenitude of his power, the time is coming, and it is not very distant, when the Catholic claims will be conceded, and that perhaps, unanimously; or something very near it.—But, it has been often said, and said very wisely, because truly, that governments never will learn good sense by experience; it that can be said of any government in this world, it may
636635634633632631630629628627Mr. Whitbread
602.—Sir; in supporting this motion, I earnestly wish to abstain from every thing like warmth or personality, in conformity with the recommendation of the right hon. gent, who, with such forcible arguments and splendid eloquence, opened this debate. I do not rise for the purpose of entering into any discussion on the general topic; but, in consequence of what has fallen from my noble friend opposite (lord Castlereagh), merely to advert to the circumstance of the Union, of which I may be supposed to have some official knowledge; and the nature of the expectation held out to the Catholics, in order to conciliate their acquiescence in that measure. My noble friend has said, that no pledge was given to the Catholics, that their full emancipation was to be the immediate consequence of this measure, in consideration of their support. It is true, indeed, that no bond was given to the Catholics on that point; but there were certainly expectations, and something like promises held out to them, which, in my mind, ought to be more binding than a bond. And so strongly was this idea felt by my noble friend, by my right hon. friend (Mr. Canning), and by a right hon. gent. now no more (Mr. Pitt), that they quitted office because they could not carry the measure; and when, upon Mr. Pitt's return to office, he opposed the going into the committee, it was not from any objection to the measure, but to the time. I therefore think, that my noble friend and my right hon. friend, must both feel themselves in an aukward situation this night, under the opposition they have given to the measure. The right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, when attorney general in 1805, opposed it, upon the ground that it would be an infringement of the articles of the union, by one of which it was
602Mr. W. Elliot
604603.—I entirely approve, sir, of the calmness and moderation recommended by the right hon. gent, who opened this debate, in a speech replete with the most splendid eloquence. I do not mean to attempt to follow him throughout the whole of his arguments. But, with respect to the time, I do not think the present a proper one, if there were no other reason than that it is impossible now to carry the measure. If the gentlemen opposite knew that they could carry it, I grant it would be a good time. But as they must be certain of the contrary, I think we ought not to go one step farther in this discussion. I consider it in the highest degree inexpedient, in times like these, to raise the hopes of the Catholics, when there exists not a single chance of our being enabled to gratify them. I sincerely deprecate a useless discussion, by which, in the present temper of the house, in the warmth of those party feelings which have
604603Mr. Wilberforce
 contradicted the statement of lord Castlereagh, respecting the motives which urged Mr. Pitt and his colleagues to abdicate the government in 1801.Mr. Windham
577"And heavily in clouds brings on the day—.""The dawn is overcast, the morning; lowers,576.—Sir; the speech of the right hon. gent, who has just sat down, strongly reminds me of what lord Chesterfield says in one of his letters, when speaking of the tragedy of Cato. That accomplished nobleman, when criticising the tragedy of Cato, remarks that there is nothing in the two beautiful lines with which the poem opens:—
577"And heavily in clouds brings on the day—.""The dawn is overcast, the morning; lowers,576Mr. Windham
, in explanation, said, that the change which he referred to was, in the feelings of many of the Irish Protestants on this subject. He had not used any argument to reconcile his own conduct with respect to the question, nor had he thought any was wanted. When he and his friends attempted to keep back the subject, they had done it in a way the most conciliating to the Irish Catholics; and if the question should be pressed, they had reserved to themselves a right to speak and vote upon it, as they had ever done.Mr. Windham
 expressed a wish to know, what were the exact circumstances of which the hon. baronet complained?Sir A. Piggott
 declared himself to be perfectly satisfied that this was not a case in which the house could interfere. It was a proceeding in the regular course of justice. If the action in this case could have been entertained at all, it must have been on the ground that it arose out of a contract. The act which allowed the expences of erecting hustings, &c. in the case of counties, did not extend to boroughs; yet even there, candidates might agree that for their accommodation, or that of their voters, during a contest of 14 or 15 days, hustings should be erected, the expence of which could not reasonably be expected to fall on the high bailiff. The action, therefore, could only be on the contract so supposed to be entered into, and could of course have no relation to the election, so as to make it a matter of privilege to be taken up by that house. This must be a question either of fact or of law, and in either case it might have been brought before the court by demurrer, or by bill of exceptions, so as to have the ground of it appear on record. It behoved those who had the legal means of defence in their own hands to go before the judge in a regular manner. If they omitted to do so, it was not for that house to interpose. If the house should be of opinion that it would be improper that a candidate should be on any account at the expence of erecting hustings, let it be made the subject of a prospective regulation. But as that was not the case at present, this must be like any other suit, founded on a covenant, the effect of which must be construed by the jury.Sir A. Piggott
601600599598597***596 observed, that as a noble viscount near him (lord Pollington) had been the only speaker who had, as yet, in the course of the debate, expressed any apprehension of the danger of the proposed concessions, he trusted his lordship's mind would be greatly relieved by adverting to the numerous authorities which had been cited in favour of the principles of Roman Catholics; and, on a question, of this nature; he trusted that the house would be of opinion that those authorities had a claim to particular attention, which were derived from distinguished prelates of the established church. Sir J. H. then quoted a passage from the bishop of Landaff's preface to his Theological Collections: 'The ruling powers, in 'Protestant and Catholic states,' says his lordship, 'begin, at length, every where 'to perceive, that an uniformity of senti-'ments in matters of religion, is a circum-
601600599598597***596Sir John Cox Hippisley
578.—Sir, I am convinced, that the more this subject is discussed, the
578Lord Milton
641ll640—Mr. Speaker; I wish to put a question to the honourable gentleman, a lord of the treasury, opposite to me, and to make one or two observations connected with the object of that question. I came down, sir, to the house this day, with the intention of submitting these observations on the question for the third reading of the bill for renewing the Commission of Military Inquiry; but though I was here before the usual hour of commencing public business, I found that the Bill had been already passed. I therefore trust that the house will indulge me but for a few moments, though I should not be strictly regular in addressing them. The question, which I wish to put to the hon. member is this, Whether it is the intention of the treasury to adopt any measure in consequence of the Fifth Report of the Commissioners of Military Inquiry, respecting the Medical Department of the Army? And if they do mean it, I beg to suggest to them the necessity of caution and mature consideration, and of further inquiry, before they adopt the opinions and suggestions of the Commissioners. For it does happen to be within my knowledge, that, in the Report alluded to, much injustice is done to the exertions of a meritorious servant of the public; and if I do not say much unmerited censure cast upon him, I have no hesitation in saying that much deserved praise is withheld. The person to whom I allude is Mr. Knight, who holds the two offices of Inspector Ge-
641ll640Lord Folkestone.
 urged the propriety of proceeding to the further consideration of the Local Militia bill; at the same time, he left it entirely to the feelings of the right hon. gent. whether he thought that the business which he had brought forward ought to take the precedence.Lord Castlereagh
 stated that some of the witnesses, not expecting to be called upon on this evening, had not attended.—The Serjeant at arms having inquired, it was found that no persons were in attendance, and Mr. Tierney having declined to move any new order on the subject,Mr. Rose
 thought that the attendance of those witnesses should be enforced, not so much by way of punishment, as for the sake of example in future.Mr. Whitbread
 supported the motion.Lord H. Petty
 said, that the house had a right to compel the attendance of any witness, and it was for the house to consider whether their absence was wilful or accidental. If it was wilful, the course would be, to order them into custody; but if it was accidental, it would be for the house to order their attendance on another day.The Speaker
 said, that he was fully aware of the advantages which the public had derived from various alterations suggested by Mr. Knight, and adopted under his directions.The Secretary at War
642 spoke likewise to the zeal and constant attention to his public duties which had always actuated Mr. Knight. He had known him for many years, and was sure that he was a meritorious servant of the public.—Mr. Vansittart and Mr. Calcraft said a few words.—Mr. Rose gave notice that on Monday
642Mr. Freemantle
 proposed to refer to a Committee the Account presented yesterday, relative to the amount of Mr. Palmer's per-centage on the revenue of the Post-office. His motive in making this reference was, that he feared the return overrated what was to be properly only the per-centage on the net revenue.—After some explanation from Mr. Long and Mr. Rose, Mr. Bankes's motion was agreed to, and a Committee appointed accordingly.Mr. Bankes
 stated, that the lords of the treasury had the intention of taking some steps in consequence of the Report alluded to by the noble lord; and that they were already aware of the circumstances to which he had called his attention. They had, accordingly, referred parts of the Report to the War-office for further information; and as they were aware that great injustice would be done to individuals if the opinions of the Commissioners were wholly adopted, the noble lord might be sure due caution would be observed before any steps were taken. He concluded by bearing testimony to Mr. Knight's exertions.Mr. Sturges Bourne
699 had no expectation, that the progress of the measure proposed would be very rapid. The present was not a plan which he would have been inclined to propose, as affording resources for the service of the year; but he was convinced, from the information and applications he had already received on the subject, that it would be one of permanent advantage, and of which, though no question of revenue were connected with it, the advantages would be generally and satisfactorily felt. He was convinced there would be applications for liberty to avail themselves of this measure, from sources of which the right hon. gent. had at. present no idea. There were persons in the constant habit of taking annuities for themselves and others, to whom this measure would present the means of saving all the original expence of such a contract. Stript as the present measure, would be, of every expence of this kind, he was satisfied it would prove an object of public as well as of individual advantage. The right hon. gent, had not said any thing as to the morality of the measure, which was a strong objection to it on a former night; he should not, therefore, enter on this point, but should content himself with observing that there appeared to him to be nothing unusual, or inconsistent with political economy, in allowing persons the opportunity of providing for themselves in this manner. What were Friendly Societies? Were they calculated for the advantage either of the widow or of the children? They surely were not; but by them part of the income was laid aside for the benefit of the person himself, without any regard to his family. The right hon. gent. alluded to the proposal of sir George Saville, which, though not adopted by parliament, was still an authority in favour of such a measure. As to the idea of this being any infraction on the measure of the sinking fund, he admitted that it was so in manner and in words, but not at all
699The Chancellor of the Exchequer
701 after detailing the history and progress of the Bank of Ireland, stated, that it was proposed that the bank capital
701Mr. Foster,
 replied, that this million was to be raised by the bank proprietors or from subscribers, and would be bona fide an. increase of their renewal. The motive of the renewal of the charter was not with a view to any money bargain, but to secure the existence or the company, to discount at five per cent, for the public.Mr. Foster
702l. in order to give some idea of the benefit that was to be derived from an accredited issue of paper, stated that one banking-house in Ireland set up on the price of a captain's commission in the dragoons, and that they afterwards had afloating capital to the amount of 490,000702l.Mr. M. Fitzgerald,
 maintained that the liberality and loyalty of the bank of Ireland had not any the smallest reason to be called in question. The addition was only one million Irish currency; and the security which it gave to individuals, and the benefit to the public by the gratuitous management of its debt, were ample reasons for the renewal of its charter.—The Resolutions were then agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated his former objections to the measure, and contended that the apprehension of scarcity was unfounded, and had arisen from the conduct of the West Indian merchants, and the discussion of this subject. He denied that the last harvest was short, and stated as a proof of that, that the price of corn was not higher than was necessary to afford a fair profit to the farmer. He contended, that if this measure were to be continued for only two years, there would not be produced the same quantity of bread corn; that the right hon. gent, would be responsible for all the consequences, and would be the first minister to prevent by his measures the poor from being able to procure bread. He should therefore object to the measure in every stage.Mr. Coke
705 condemned the interference of parliament with the agriculture of the country. Great Britain and Ireland must be able to produce sufficient for their consumption, if their agriculture was not to be interfered with by impolitic measures of this description. The shutting of the ports of the continent against us would amount to a bounty on the improvement and extension of agriculture, not only with respect to corn, but the cultivation of hemp. This measure he considered as a dangerous experiment, and agreed with the hon. gent, who spoke last, that no hope should be held out to the West India merchants that this measure should ever again be resorted to. He did not see why a certain sum might not be lent to the West Indies upon adequate security, to enable the proprietors to turn their lands to the production of other articles. He would even
705Mr. Yorke
 argued that some means should be devised for taking oil some of the redundant stock of sugar. If the effect of the measure should be to injure the landed interest, no gentleman would consent to it; but the object of the measure was, to prevent the consequences of a scarcity if the next crop should not be a good one.Mr. Hawkins Browne
 could not avoid entering his protest against this measure, and declared, that though he was one of the landed interest, he did not object to this measure on any narrow view, but from the opinion that it was fraught with injury to the agriculture of the country.Sir John Sebright
 agreed to the amendment made by his hon. friend.Lord Binning
 declared his intention to follow the example of his hon. friend, and to vote for the amendment, and against the Resolution.—The house then divided: For the Amendment 89; against it 71. Majority 18. After which, the period of the commencement of the prohibition was fixed for the 15th of June for Scotland, and the 20th for Ireland.Mr. Coke
700 said, that the right hon. gent, admitted he expected no great immediate effect from the measure, but that it would be gradual. In this his lordship could hardly agree; for if he at all understood the plan, the right hon. gent, expected the funds to rise; and whenever they did rise to a certain height, the measure was to cease. His lordship thought the plan altogether objectionable, in a political, moral, and financial point of view. He asked, would it be proper, or rather would it not be dangerous in the extreme, if the great bulk of the property of this country were allowed to be thrown into annuities? The right hon. gent. had referred to the case of benefit societies as one in his favour. If he (lord H. Petty), however, had been to select a case on the other side, he did not think he could have hit on one more completely in favour of his argument. In the case of benefit societies, part of the income of a week was converted into a fund for the support of the person during life; thus, a temporary was converted into a more permanent fund. But by the present measure, the permanent was to be converted into the temporary fund. His lordship was decidedly of opinion, that this measure would be prejudicial not to those alone who were induced to try its effect, but also to the public creditor. The right hon. gent, surely did not mean to state that these annuities would not be transferred, and of course would, in a different shape, bring the same quantity of stock again into the market? Did he mean to contend that it might not happen, that, from the casualties of human life, a person who had purchased an annuity might not he obliged to sell it again? Thus, though government might be ready to grant to persons wish-
700Lord H. Petty
 enumerated the inconveniences that would be suffered by distillers, if the use of corn were to be prohibited in distilleries on the 1st of July, both in consequence of the corn they had on hand ground, and of the loss they would sustain from the cattle, which were now fed upon grains in warm houses, being exposed to the effect of the open air.Mr. Portman
 contended, that it was neither the growers of corn, nor the growers of sugar, that were particularly concerned, in this question. The consumers of corn, the manufacturers, and all who wished well to the country, were the persons most concerned; and as the supply which the country had from importation for some years past was now stopped, it was the more necessary to take measures to provide for making up that supply. The agriculture of the country was not adequate to make up for that deficiency, and therefore there could be no reasonable objection to the introduction of some part of it from the West Indies.Mr. Hibbert
 objected to the resolution, on the ground that he disapproved of the principle of borrowing money from the bank whilst the restriction of specie existed, and he thought this a bad money-bargain for the public.Mr. Tierney
l.l.698 submitted a variety of calculations, tending to shew the inefficacy and inutility of the measure. If ever there was a period, when a man would be disinclined to increase his income at the expence of his capital, it must be at that period when there was a tax upon income, and none upon capital. He objected to the plan particularly, because it interfered with the sinking fund, and with the faith of the country pledged in consequence of that measure; but he did not do so in the abstract; he objected to it because it was indirect infraction of that measure, without being calculated to produce any advantage to the country. He was against any interference with the sinking fund, unless it was to restore it to the state in which it stood previous to the year 1802. In that case the public would begin, in the next year, or in the year following, to feel the advantages of it; but by the present measure this alleviation of the public burthens must be protracted for a number of years. The act stipulated that the commissioners should, from time to time, from year to year, lay out large sums in the purchase of stock. It was no answer to those who had contracted on the faith of these annual purchases, and who might have done so with the view of a speedy sale, to say, 'there is no harm done, in the course of ten years perhaps things will be restored to their proper and ordinary course.' Having once adopted the present measure, it would be in vain to say that the sinking fund was intended to be held sacred; for in agreeing to this proposition the house practised one of the grossest infractions upon it. The right hon. gent, dwelt on the extravagant inducement which this measure held out to
l.l.698Mr. Tierney
 stated, that the committee whose report he had had the honour to submit to the house, were of opinion that the benefit to be attached to the paper of the national banks of England and Ireland, by its exclusive credit, was not expedient to be continued longer than the exigency of the times required. It was net fit that the hands of the legislature should be tied up, whether the circumstances of the country-were so materially changed as to throw an additional benefit into the hands of the bank or not. He thought that ten, or at most fifteen, years addition, was sufficient to be granted at present.Mr. Bankes
706 recalled the attention of the committee to the real question before them. The resolution under consideration, was, whether the use of corn in distilleries, from the 1st of July to the 1st of October should be prohibited. During that period the distilleries usually were stopped, so that no injury could be done thereby to the landed interest. He could not see why the measure should not be re sorted to, vesting in his majesty's minister a discretion as to the continuance of the prohibition; because they would be bourn
706Mr. H. Lascelles
 re-asserted and vindicated some of his former statements, respecting the motives of the opposition to this measure, and argued at considerable length in support of it.Mr. Barham
 did not think there would be any sound objection to the adoption of this plan; on the contrary, he was friendly to its adoption, because in a free country like this there should be as great a diversity as possible of option afforded to persons wishing to lay out their capital with security; and to show that he was friendly to the adoption, he proposed that the annuities should be rendered more marketable by facilitating the insurance of the lives of the nominees, by taking off the tax upon the policies of insurance upon such lives.—The Resolutions were then agreed to.Mr. Biddulph
 wished merely to state the ground of the vote which he meant to give. He should certainly support the amendment of his hon. friend, because he thought, that if any effect at all were to be expected from the measure, it must be by adopting that amendment. But as he was an enemy to the measure in any shape, he should feel himself bound to oppose the Resolution in chief.Mr. Whitbread
 thought that the plan now proposed would have the effect of encouraging a greater degree of frugality in the lower classes, by affording them an opportunity of applying their savings, with perfect security, to the increase of their incomes, and that in this point of view the benefit would overbalance any evil which might arise from it.Mr. Davies Giddy
 considered it of the highest importance to encourage the agriculture by exportation, consumption in breweries and distilleries, and in every possible mode. He was, however, of opinion, that in times of necessity the legislature had a right to interfere and prevent every other consumption of corn, in order to save it for human food; but whilst he admitted this right, he contended as strongly, that nothing would so legitimately give that right as the deficiency of human food. The reason why he thought that agriculture ought to be encouraged, was because nothing could make a country so truly great as to render it independent, for articles of necessity, of any other nation. He should never, therefore, consent to any interference with the agriculture of the country for any object of external interest.Mr. Davies Giddy
 stated, that with respect to the noble lord's plan, it would not be interfered with by this measure, because certainly the Sinking Fund would in ten years be in as good a situation, notwithstanding the operation of this plan, as under that of the noble lord. This plan was not to hold out an inducement, but to afford an opportunity to persons wishing to purchase annuities, to invest their capital in that manner; and it would undoubtedly be a great convenience to many individuals, who might have to bequeath annuities to dependants, to have their lands discharged of such annuities by purchases under the present plan. The hon. gent, then shewed by calculations, that the operation of this plan would accelerate the period of the redemption of the public debt, without producing the inequality in the effect of the sinking fund apprehended by the noble lord.Mr. Huskisson
s.s.704 was extremely sorry to differ upon this subject from the hon. gent, who began this discussion, with whom he was very much in the habit of agreeing. No man could doubt the existence of partial scarcity. He had documents, received earlier than the discussion of the question, to prove that fact, and which from their strength he did not think proper to read. These accounts he had received from parts of Scotland with which he was connected. The late crop of barley was short, and though there was no scarcity of wheat, there was a scarcity of barley, and an universal scarcity of oats in the country; as might be collected from the price of oats in the market, which was now
s.s.704Mr. W. Smith
 objected to the renewal of the charter, because it would remove the transactions of the bank out of the controul of parliament.Mr. Parnell
703 said, that great part of what he had to offer on this subject had been anticipated by gentlemen who had already spoken upon it and in particular, by the chancellor of the exchequer foe Ire-
703Sir James Hall
 said, the Irish bank was placed on the same footing with, the bank of England, and he did not see why a distinction should take place in one country which was not proposed for the other. He deprecated thus bringing forward old oppressions to countenance new innovations. In proposing hereafter a renewal of the charter, he did not intend by any means to heap new burthens on the catholics; he would leave the charter just as it stood at present, and if the catholics found themselves aggrieved, they might petition parliament, which they did not do now. He concluded by moving, that the house should proceed to the other orders of the day.Mr. Foster
 said, he did not see the utility of altering the law; there was surely no grievance in continuing the same law to Ireland which was in force here. If any alteration was to take place, the time would be when the charter was about to be renewed, and not now to engraft a new bill on the old bill. He did not desire that the new charter should prejudice the Irish catholics; on the contrary, he had no objection to enter a declaratory clause in future, giving the legislature a power of interfering in their defence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
719l. stated that a person might remove from one district to another where there would be no ballot, and where he could not get into a volunteer corps, they being full. This man being perfectly free, would receive more wages than the other.—Nothing was done on this suggestion.719l.Mr. Spencer Stanhope
 was glad the right hon. gent, had it not in his intention to re-enact the penal code. He thought our ancestors had as good reasons for their severity as we had now for our exclusion, and he was sure posterity would repay us as we repaid those who went before us. The case of Ireland did not apply to this country at all, where the majority were protestants, but in Ireland he would venture to say the principal merchants were catholics.Mr. Martin
 said, he rather believed the government of the country had good grounds for confining those several persons: it was about the period of the last rebellious insurrection which broke out in Dublin.Sir A. Wellesley
714 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the spreading of the Small Pox infection. It was not his intention to attempt enforcing the vaccine inoculation. He would leave that open to the operation of its own merits. But with respect to the Small Pox, it was often found that the infection was widely spread from the modern mode of treating that disease;
714Mr. Fuller
713 observed, that the mere declaration of the right hon. baronet, that he 'rather believed' the government of the day had good grounds for confining these petitioners, was rather a vague mode of
713Mr. Sheridan
 observed, that as the right hon. gent, said he did not mean to exclude the catholics, he hoped he would support the Resolution. As the old penal laws were repealed, why not repeal this? No one surely could say this was so serious a state matter as to endanger the existence of the constitution or the church.Mr. Windham
716l.715 rose to bring forward his promised resolution for declaring catholics eligible to fill the high offices of the Bank of Ireland. Of all the restrictions which the penal laws of Ireland had imposed upon the catholics, he commented on the absurdity of enacting that the creed of a Director in a commercial establishment should be a bar to the exertion of his talents in promoting the interests of the concern; or that, in appointing a director, the proprietors of such a concern should be bound, in the first instance, to inquire into his form of worship. Ireland was the only country in Europe where this was the case. But, in the act for establishing the Bank of Ireland, no such restriction appeared; and it was only in the charter made out in consequence of that act, that any idea of religious restriction was introduced. By an act of 1793, the Irish parliament had very much relaxed those restrictions which precluded Irish catholics from holding certain offices, and
716l.715Sir John Newport
 presented a bill for regulating and prolonging the Charter of the Bank of Ireland, and for enabling the governor and company of the said bank to advance a loan of one million and a quarter for the service of his majesty.Mr. Foster
 said, that, so far from precipitating this measure without allowing time to consider it, the documents had been on the table of the house above three weeks.—The bill was read the first time.Mr. Foster
l734l733jure coroœljure coronœ,732l731ll730729728727726lbonâ fide.725in appearance,coverprivate charter party,reside724† Here is a memorandum that this letter also could not be found.***723l722 (member for Yarmouth) rose and spoke as follows:—Before I proceed, sir, to state the grounds of the motion which I shall shortly have the honour of proposing to the house. I wish in a few words to call to their recollection, those circumstances which originally induced me to bring this transaction to their notice. I am the more anxious to do this, because it has very unfairly been said, that I made a personal attack on the hon. captain without giving him any notice of my intention of so doing. It will be in the recollection of the house that an hon. baronet (sir Francis Burdett) some months since made a motion for an account of the Droits of Admiralty without any previous notice, and the chancellor of the exchequer requested him to postpone it to the following day for the purpose of having time to consider of it. At that time I had not the honour of the slightest personal acquaintance with the hon. baronet, but being apprehensive that the motion, as it was then worded, would not attain his object, I followed him out of the house, and suggested some alterations, which might comprehend the Droits to the Crown as well as the Admiralty Droits, as the former much exceeded the latter in amount, and added, that I myself knew an instance of gross misapplication of that fund The case of the Etrusco occurred to me, but distrusting the accuracy of my memory, I went the next day to Doctor's Commons for the purpose of ascertaining whether my recollection of the case was correct. On this head I was soon quite satisfied. Being unavoidably delayed till rather late, on my entrance into the house, I found the hon. baronet on his legs making his motion. I immediately inquired of a noble lord (Ossulston) and an hon. gent, near me (Mr. Brand), if sir Home Popham was in the house, as I did not know him by sight. Being answered in the affirmative, I determined to state the case, if any objection should be made to the hon. baronet's motion. To my great surprize the chancellor of the exchequer positively asserted that no instance of the misapplication of these funds had ever taken place. In reply to this statement, I mentioned the leading features of the case of the Etrusco; and, sir, I shall ever consider it my duty to make known to this house every misapplication of public money, which may come within my knowledge; and in this instance I was more particularly called
l734l733jure coroœljure coronœ,732l731ll730729728727726lbonâ fide.725in appearance,coverprivate charter party,reside724† Here is a memorandum that this letter also could not be found.***723l722Mr. S. Lushington
 asked the hon. mover, whether he meant to bring a charge against sir Home Popham or the government?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lllll757756 (sir John Nicholls) would not discharge his duty to the house, nor to the memory of that illustrious individual who was now unfortunately no more (Mr. Pitt), if he did not state to the house the grounds of the opinion upon which he had recommended the grant. Ever since this subject had been first mentioned, he had felt personally embarrassed with respect to the matter. It had been said, that the grant had been made upon a reluctant report from the king's advocate; but so far from that having been the case, the report concluded without expressing any opinion, which, on so novel a case, the law officers who signed the report were not competent to give. On so grave a question as the exercise of the inquisitorial power of that house respecting the expenditure of the public money, it was important to keep in view the object of the motion. That object was a censure on the conduct of a late administration for an improvident grant of money, in order to prevent a similar act in future. It was unfortunate, for any individual to be the
lllll757756The Advocate General
762761 did not feel it necessary to say much after the very able speeches of his right hon. and learned friends. He differed from the right hon. gent, who had spoke last, as to the propriety of separating the act of the treasury from the consideration of the merits of sir Home Popham, although he
762761The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that as the expressions used by the hon. gentleman on a former occasion had been adverted to, he was perfectly in order in explaining these expressions, and the grounds upon which he had used them. It would be for the hon. gent, however, to decide how far his statement ought to be carried for the purpose of such explanation.The Speaker
 put it to the house, 'whether there could be a doubt that the motion, as it was worded, conveyed a personal charge against, sir Home Popham.—Sir Home having retired,The Speaker
755 declared that he should never be deterred by the dread of recrimination from submitting what he esteemed it to be his duly to offer to the house. He was sorry the gallant officer could not be present; but as what he had to say would depend on the documents alone, he could easily inform himself on the subject. He had stated on a former night, that the appointment of that officer to be captain of the fleet under admiral Gambier had created the utmost disgust throughout the nary. He did not state so without documents on which to ground his assertion; and he thought he could not do better than read a letter which he held in his hand, addressed to admiral Gambier on this occasion. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to read a remonstrance to lord
755Mr. Calcraft
 was not disposed to proceed further on the subject, as his object had only been to shew that the case he had urged was supported by undoubted authority. He should conclude by declaring that, as the case of his hon. friend seemed to him to be fully made out, he should vote in support of his resolutions.Mr. Calcraft
754753 complained of the manner in which the hon. gent, had brought forward this charge against the treasury. If the hon. gent, would prefer a distinct charge against himself, he should always be ready to meet it; if against his late right hon. friend (Mr. Pitt), there were others in the house much better qualified to defend that illustrious and lamented character than himself. Of many of the circumstances mentioned by the hon. gent. he was perfectly ignorant until the agitation of this subject. He was ignorant that any charge of smuggling had been imputed to the hon. captain, for no such charge had been made in captain Robinson's memorial; he was ignorant that the hon. captain had pleaded in bar to an action, the illegality of the transaction in which he had been concerned. The hon. gent, declared that this was a misapplication of the public money, and that his principal object was to prevent a recurrence of that misapplication in future. He then proceeded to state, that the hon. captain had deceived the treasury, and had acted under that delusion. This he positively denied. The treasury had not been deceived. He was willing to take the whole responsibility of the affair on himself; for on the closest re-examination which he had been able to make of the subject, he was satisfied that the treasury had acted on the soundest principles; that they must have done what they did, even to an indifferent person; how much more to a man so well known by the services he had rendered to the public! What was the case? After a litigation of ten years, a part of the property was restored to the neutral proprietors; a
754753Mr. Long
ll763l said, that the ground on which the misapplication of 18,000ll763lMr. Whitbread
 who contended that there was no connexion between the observations of the hon. gentleman and the question before the house; at the same time declaring, that he was perfectly ready to meet the hon. gent. upon the topic to which he had referred, whenever it should be brought regularly before the house.Mr. Wellesley Pole,
ll760759758 said, before he went into the general question, he would set aside some of those abstract topics which had been urged as a kind of stoppage to inquiry. These topics were two in number;
ll760759758Mr. Windham
752llllllllllllll751750ll749748747746745lll744743742741740739738737736735—Before I reply to the various charges brought forward against me by the hon. gentleman, I trust that the house will indulge me with a patient hearing, while I offer a few preliminary observations, which are the more necessary to the vindication of my character, as they relate to circumstances immediately arising from the original question, or brought forward in this house since its, first discussion. I wish not to detain the house by frivolous and irrelevant platter, but to oppose facts to calumny, and to combat prejudices and falsehoods with no other weapons than truth and plain dealing. The persecution which has been exercised against me for several years past must be strong in the recollection of every member of this house; but of all the exertions which have been
752llllllllllllll751750ll749748747746745lll744743742741740739738737736735Sir Home Popham.
 complained of the precipitancy with which this bill was forced upon the house. It was, in his mind, a measure of too much importance to be thus hurried forward; and, for one, he had strong objections to it altogether. First, because he thought it was founded on the worst bargain that ever was made for the public, namely, a loan of a certain sum of money to be advanced by the Irish bank to the government of the country, at 5 per cent, the highest rate of interest which the law allowed them to charge upon discounts on any tradesman's bills in this country. Secondly, because, as the Finance Committee had suggested regulations with respect to the bank of England highly advantageous to the public, he wished them to have an opportunity of considering and recommending similar regulations with respect to the bank of Ireland, before the charter was renewed or prolonged. Overtures had been made to himself, while chancellor of the Irish exchequer, for a renewal of the charter; but he had set his face against it, and the only bonus he could see that the right hon. gent, had obtained for the public by this bargain, was, that the bank agreed to forego any claims they might have had for managing the public debt; but surely the government of Ireland was not at so low an ebb of credit as not to be able to borrow this loan of so large a sum, on better terms than the humblest trader paid for discount of his bills at their counter.Sir J. Newport
 said, that before he stated the terms upon which he had contracted for the Loan for the service of the present year, he should shortly recapitulate the different heads of Supply and of Ways and Means, viz.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
774773 confessed he had little to say upon the general merits of the subject, after it had been so fully discussed by several gentlemen on both sides of the house; but as he understood that there were many other gentlemen who were anxious to debate the last Resolution, as well as himself, he should propose, from the lateness of the hour, to postpone the further discussion upon that branch of the question till an early day.—[A cry of go on! go on!]— The hon. gent, resumed, by observing, that the question, as it at present stood, was reduced simply to, whether in his conduct the noble marquis was actuated by a sense of justice, of necessity, or of policy. The hon. gent. then entered into a history of the interference of France, by sending agents to Tippoo Saib, which was held by the governors of India as a ground for their interference in the affairs of the Carnatic. He detailed the gradual series of encroachments made by the British government in the affairs and territories of the nabobs, until the period that we in fact assumed the sovereignty of their territory. In our first intercourse and treaties, we had considered that power as a principal; but at length, by our unjust encroachments, we became in fact ourselves the principals, and reduced them to the situation of vassals to ourselves. We deprived the sovereign of all his political consequence, and of the power he originally possessed. Such conduct on our parts might be reconciled to our policy, and those principles of aggrandizement which characterized
774773Mr. Grant
797796795794793792791790789788787786785784783782781780779778777776775 —Mr. Speaker; differing as I do entirely from the hon. member who has just sat down, from the hon. baronet who opened the debate on a former night, and from the hon. member (Mr. G. Johnstone) who spoke from the floor, I shall state the reasons for that difference, for the consideration of the house. Without following each of those, hon. members through the lengthened detail of their speeches, I shall endeavour to reply to the propositions they have laboured to establish, and which were, I believe, in abstract these: that in the beginning of the connexion between the East India Company and the family of Mahomed Ally, the Company were indebted to them for their preservation and protection in the Carnatic; that in the progress of that connexion, the Company received from Mahomed Ally repeated proofs of kindness and generosity; but that his government and that of his son and successor, Omdut ul Omrah, was distracted by the
797796795794793792791790789788787786785784783782781780779778777776775Mr. S. R. Lushington.
771 addressing the house, and condemning in strong terms the conduct pursued towards the young prince of the Carnatic, Ally Hussian, who had been, for no crime, punished with greater severity than was merited by the guilty person who had preceded him; and no man could entertain a doubt as to the manner in which he came by his end, after he had been given into the power of another prince. It had been asked, whether the government, of India would put a young man upon the throne of the Carnatic, who was suspected not to be cordially their friend? If there was any foundation for that argument, it was one of much greater validity for excluding Omdut ul Omrah. The father, who possessed his inheritance in the greatest splendour, had much more means of doing mischief than his son. An hon. gent, who spoke on a former debate had greatly misrepresented the fact when he said the Nabob of the Carnatic owed his power to the East India Company. At one time it was owing to the assistance the Company received from the nabob Wallajah, that our existence was preserved along the coast bordering on his territories, when the French attacked us near Fort St. David. It was said the nabobs were only a sort of lords, and that they had no authority in the country. The very contrary of this was the fact. The nabob was a legitimate sovereign, and the East India Company acknowledged him as such, by holding territory from him.—The hon. gent, then entered into a history of various transactions in India, to shew that it was contrary to the principles and practice of our government at former periods, to keep possession of the territory of native princes. At the conclusion of a war with Tippoo Sultaun, his territories, which we had taken possession of during hostilities, were restored to him. In op-
771Mr. G. Johnstone
l.l. said, he observed, that there was one million of the loan for Ireland still to be provided for: 1,500,000l.l.Mr. Tierney
769 regretted that the hon. gent had so totally misconceived him. He had never said that that hon. gent. or any of his friends, were anxious to blink the question; but he had said the very reverse. He had said, too, what he would repeat, that moving the previous question was not the way to obtain for the noble marquis the honourable and satisfactory investigation so much wished for by his friends. It was not directly meeting the very serious charges brought against that noble lord. As to the part he took in the present question, the hon. gent. knew well that he could not be influenced by any other motive than a sense of public duty. As to the fraternal intemperance of the
769Mr. Sheridan
 felt himself warranted by the practice of parliament in proposing the previous question on the Resolutions of fact. To the criminatory Resolution he proposed a direct negative, to be followed up with a Resolution of approbation. There could be no question that a decision on these Resolutions would fully convey the sense of the house. The hon. baronet who opened the charge, and every other person who spoke on the question treated of it in its full extent.Mr. Wallace
 said, that after the complete defeat which the cause of the hon. bart. had sustained, he might well forbear moving any Resolution of approbation; for what approbation could be stronger than that testified by the majorities with which the hon. baronet's Resolutions had been rejected? He saw no reason, however, for entering into any further discussion on a future day; but would now read the Resolution with which he intended to close the business. It was as follows: "That it is the opinion of this house, that the marquis Wellesley and lord Clive, in their conduct relative to the Carnatic, were influenced solely by an anxious zeal and solicitude to promote the permanent security, welfare, and prosperity, of the British possessions in India."Mr. Wallace
772 entered into a defence of the government of India, in depriving the nabob of his dominions; because he had shewn a manifest disposition to favour and aid the French. The greatest abuses, he said, existed in the Carnatic. The hon. member then went so far back into the history of the Carnatic as the year 1768, and pointed out such abuses as he thought rendered the interference of the India government highly necessary. He spoke at considerable length in exculpation of the noble marquis, and in favour of the previous question. He enumurated the important services he had rendered his country, which were manifest
772Mr. Whitshed Keene
l.s.l.s.l.767 alluded to the terms on which the two funds might be redeemed; and argued, that the bidding in the four per cents, was, from that single circum-
l.s.l.s.l.767Mr. Huskisson
768 was speaking. He had no objection to come to issue this or any other night upon any charge the right hon. gent, or any other person, might have to prefer against lord Wellesley. He would not sit silent when it was insinuated that his noble relative or his friends wished to stifle inquiry. It was no evidence of a disposition to blink the question, that lord Wellesley's friends were desirous to come to the vote without provoking a fresh debate. The debate on the former night had closed with a speech from an hon. member (colonel Allan), who had been an eye-witness of the transactions in the Carnatic, and who was in no way connected with lord Wellesley, declaring the whole of the matter contained in the charges to be gross and unfounded calumnies. In the full confidence not only of the innocence, but of the highly meritorious conduct of lord Wellesley, he was ready to
768Mr. Wellesley Pole
 stated, that when the hon. baronet had opened his Resolutions, an hon. friend of his (Mr. Wallace), gave notice that he would move the previous question on the Resolutions of fact, and a direct negative on the criminating Resolution, for which he proposed to substitute a resolution of approbation.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 thought it a most extraordinary proceeding, that after the course just stated should have been laid down in the presence of the right hon. gent, a fortnight since, and he had heard it, and was ready to speak on it without exception, he all at once came forward this night to reverse all that had been done, and substitute a general question. Nothing but the previous question would be a proper proceeding on some of the Resolutions. The others were to be met directly in the most decided manner.Sir John Anstruther
 considered that his Resolution ought to be agreed to without a question. On the fourth Resolution, which was criminating, he thought the house ought to go into a committee. Finding that the Resolutions were to be met in this manner, he should divide the house on every one of them; and on the fourth, criminating lord Wellesley, not personally, but in his acts, he should again state to the house his reasons for confirming the Resolution.Sir Thomas Turton
798 on his return into the house after this division, observed, that the numbers on his side were so few, that he. should not now proceed to move
798Sir Thomas Turton,
 determined not to proceed any further, but moved that the other orders of the day be now read, intimating, that this day fortnight he should move his other two Resolutions. The Chancellor of the Exchequer and sir John Anstruther were perfectly indifferent when the hon. baronet should move them. What had passed in the debate of this night, and in the former debate, had completely shewn how unanswerable were the arguments which had been urged on their side; and they were confident that when the public saw the state of the divisions, after so many boasts, and so many procrastinations, they would not fail to form a just opinion of die nature of the whole proceeding.—The other orders of the day were then disposed of, and the house adjourned, at three o'clock on Thursday morning.Sir T. Turton
 said, that it was a matter of no minor consideration that, by the act, the judges held their situations 'quam diu bene se gesserint;' and that the case of the Sheriffs of Counties in Scotland, alluded to by an hon. gent, was not at all analogous, as such officers were not thereby removed from any profession in the duties of which they had been previously employed. He denied that these pensions were so much for the benefit of the individuals concerned as for the benefit of the public, by securing an adequate and uninterrupted administration of justice.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the whole of the revenue questions in Scotland came before the court of exchequer. If it were once to be laid down, that persons who from age or infirmity were incapable of instructing the jury aright, be allowed to continue judges, the complaint of there being little revenue business in Scotland would soon cease to operate. It was necessary to take care that the Judges in that court, as well as in every other, were efficient.The Lord Advocate
 was decidedly of this mind; but he presumed to think it would hardly be said, that the Barons of the Exchequer had hitherto been inefficient. Therefore, there could be the less necessity for the present bill so far as they were concerned. He was informed, that it was quite consistent with the duties of this office, that the person exercising it, should reside in a foreign country. He expected to have heard from his learned friend, some reasons for the present measure, but he was disappointed. The learned lord had said, that 22 causes had stood in the paper for trial during the last term; but every gentleman present knew, that there was nothing extraordinary in this, as not one of them might have been insisted in.Sir S. Romilly
 for Scotland thought it invidious to make any distinction between the Barons of Exchequer, who were Judges of one of the supreme courts, and the Judges of the other courts. The labour, unquestionably, could not be compared with that of the Judges of the court of Session; but still their duties were important. They had even to controul the grants of the minister himself.The Solicitor General
801 said it had been admitted that the Barons of Exchequer in Scotland came in place of the old Lords of the Treasury. The duties, of course, which devolved on them, were not, and could not be judicial. The house was now called on to give pensions to the name of Barons of Exchequer, for in no other way
801Mr. Abercromby
 of Scotland saw no reason for the delay proposed, and was surprised to find the hon. member had any serious objection to the bill, which was only intended to set the superannuated Judges of Scotland on the same liberal footing as those of England. It was an improper mode of providing for the superannuated Judges from the revenue of the king; first, because these pensions could be withdrawn at pleasure; and secondly, because they would expire with the life of the king. He considered the delay proposed as dangerous to the Bill, and, therefore, should oppose it.The Lord Advocate
 wished the bill should not be committed until the report of the Finance Committee should be before the house; the delay was inconsiderable, and might be attended with advantage to the country.—After a few words from Mr. Rose, the gallery was cleared for a division. On the division there appeared for going into the Committee, Ayes 63; Noes 32. Majority 31.Mr. Abercromby
 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to revive and continue the powers of the Commissioners of Military Inquiry. He hoped there would be no objection to pass this bill through all its stages as speedily as possible. A bill for this purpose had already passed both houses of parliament in this session, but by some accident, it had been omitted in the commission which had passed the great seal for giving the royal assent to bills agreed upon by both houses. In consequence of this omission, the powers of the commissioners had expired yesterday, and it became necessary to have this bill revived, to continue them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 deferred his notice of a motion on this subject until Thursday. His object was to diminish the evils which now resulted from the dissemination of spurious and improper Vaccine matter, by the establishment of some central Institution, from which the genuine virus should be distributed without expence. If the house should acquiesce in his motion, he should then propose to submit the management of the institution to a certain number of the College of Physicians. This was not a government measure, and he begged to be understood as having no particular partiality to any one of the present institutions more than another. His object was to give the best possible effect to the discovery of Dr. Jenner.Mr. Rose
 observed, that at all events the motion was premature, as the report was not printed, and the house could not know what was proposed in it. If nothing should appear in that report but that we should pay our debts, the paper would not be necessary with a view to that question. This, therefore, was not the time for the house to decide whether the committee had done wrong or not in withholding that paper for the present.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 understood, that the president of the board of controul intended to propose in the first place, no more than the payment of what were called our debts. In that case the production of the paper would not be so necessary. But yet the Report proposed, that a large sum over and above those debts should be granted to the company. At all events, it was proper, that the house should have every information on the subject as soon as possible; and as there could be no real objection to the production of this paper, he should vote for its being laid immediately on the table.Lord Folkestone
 admitted, that the best way of proceeding would be, in the first instance to clear all our debts to the company if any were due, and then to examine into the general state of their affairs. If it was, therefore, to be understood that nothing further was to be proposed by the hon. president of the board of controul in the committee of ways and means, except a liquidation of the debt, he thought his hon. friend might suffer himself to be prevailed upon to withdraw his motion for the present.Mr. Ponsonby
 was as friendly to every proper measure of conciliation to the Roman-Catholics as the noble lord, but he asserted that there was no reason for introducing such a change into the constitution of the Bank of Ireland, which change never had been made in the charter of the bank of England, particularly when the present state of Ireland was considered, and when it was recollected that the change was unsolicited by the Roman-catholics themselves. [Hear, hear, from the opposition.] Gentlemen might cry 'hear' but he stated that in two meetings of the proprietary which had lately taken place, no mention whatever had been made of the subject. He should therefore oppose the resolution, as tending to introduce a needless innovation into the charter.Mr. Foster
 argued, that according to every fair construction of the act of 1793, there was no reason to think that that act of the Irish parliament meant to leave Roman Catholics eligible to the government and direction of the Bank of Ireland; and as to the time at which the proposition was made, viz. after having refused to accede to the prayer of their Petition, it appeared rather surprising that it should be urged, that we ought to indemnify the Roman Catholics for refusing to them what they were desirous of having, by granting that which they did not ask, and upon which they sat no value at all.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 interrupted the hon. member, and reminded him that the Petition had not been yet read, and that when it was, the house would be better enabled to judge of the nature of its contents. Mr. Fuller resumed his seat amidst considerable laughter. The Petition was then read, and sir T. Turton moved, that it do lie on the table, whenThe Speaker
803 thought it right to make some observations on this case. It was contrary to the constitution that bills agreed upon by both houses should lie in the other house without being noticed, when a commission from the great seal came down to give the royal assent to bills so agreed upon. There being no reason to suppose that the present case happened otherwise than by mere accident, the present motion might be sufficient.803The Speaker
802 thought it was a sufficient answer to the objections why the Welch judges were not pensioned as well as the
802Mr. R. Dundas
 said, that the objection to the production of the paper, had been merely a question of time. The Exposition related principally to the state of the company's affairs abroad. The Report related to their affairs at home. The committee, therefore, with the exception of the hon. gent, had thought it better to delay the production of the Exposition till the second report, where those matters would be treated to which it related. He denied that any delusions had been held out, but said that the predictions of lord Melville and his noble friend near him (lord Castlereagh) were justified by the then situation of the company, and had only failed from circumstances which they could not foresee.Mr. R. Dundas
 said, that he meant to move to-morrow s'ennight, in a committee of ways and means, the balance due from the public to the company.Mr. R. Dundas
 said, that he only meant in the first instance to propose a liquidation of the debt.Mr. R. Dundas
806 observed, that the question was, whether any proposition for a loan to the East India company was to
806Lord A. Hamilton
809 rose to move an instruction to the committee to enable Roman-Catholics to become directors of the Bank of Ireland. In bringing this proposition forward, he felt that he should have to encounter very great difficulty, not from the complexity of the subject, but from the task of' obviating an objection, if any objection could possibly exist, against adopting a measure of conciliation to the Roman-Catholics of Ireland. The charter of the Bank of Ireland was granted in 1782, and the Roman-Catholics were then excluded from the direction, agreeably to the spirit of the penal laws. In the act of 1793, the bar to their admission was intended to be removed; but this intention was frustrated by the omission of a single word in the act. He had heard it argued, that it would be prudent to allow this obscurity to remain; but he asserted that now, when the house was legislating upon the subject, by allowing the doubt to remain which at first was merely accidental, the catholics were placed in a worse situa-
809Lord H. Petty
 said, it was altogether a mistake to compare the duties of the Barons of the Exchequer in Scotland, with those that were discharged by the court of the same name in Westminster Hall. The former were merely a Board of Revenue. It had been justly said, that on an average they had not twelve causes before them in twelve months. During the term before last, he was informed there were only three causes, and during the term just finished not a single one.Mr. Horner
 observed, that every facility had been afforded to his hon. friend to procure all the evidence with respect to the home affairs of the company; and if no more evidence was produced, it was his hon. friend's fault. It was rather unfair, therefore, to hold up the committee to the public as desirous to conceal the situation of the company. He disclaimed any such intention. The Report related to the home affairs; and if he had been in the committee at the time, he certainly would have voted with the majority for withholding that paper for the present, as having no relation to the matters contained in the report. If what had been decided by the committee as debt was alone to be proposed upon that report, there could be no use for the document; but, if any assistance was intended to be voted in the first instance, then, however hard on the company it might be, he would assent to the production of the paper. He did not wish to gloss over the affairs of the company; neither did he wish to prejudice the public against them. They were entitled to justice. They had exposed their affairs very fairly; and all the members of that committee were most anxious to find out and state the exact and fair truth on this subject.Mr. Tierney
 declared, that all the explanations made by gentlemen acquainted with the duties of the Barons of Exchequer in Scotland, did not satisfy his mind that their offices were judicial. He could conceive it perfectly possible that they might go by the same name, and not have the same duties to perform with the Barons of Exchequer in Ireland. A person might once belong to a court of justice and yet his character not be judicial. As, for instance, his right hon. friend opposite was chancellor of the exchequer, and head of that court, and, on the principle now contended for, must be entitled to a salary on retiring from his office; but this, he presumed to think, would hardly be maintained.Mr. Bankes
799 expressed himself altogether averse to the principle of this bill, and was extremely surprized to perceive it was endeavoured to be hurried through the house, when it made so great a grant of public money, and was a subject on which so many various and discordant sentiments had been already delivered. It
799Mr. Bankes
 said, that this was one of those things which it seemed but little to grant, but the refusal of which was felt as a severe mortification. It had been said that the Roman catholics did not desire the boon; he admitted, that they had not petitioned for this privilege specifically; but if they had not, it was because it was so small that they conceived it was impossible it could be refused. He believed that it was not the intention of the Irish parliament to exclude Catholics from the direction of the Bank; and this opinion he supported by referring to the Act of 1793.Mr. Grattan
 thought it would be better to permit the Scotch to have all possible means of remuneration for their labour in their own country. The present deficiency was, perhaps, the reason why so many young Scotchmen thronged the streets of London, hunting after promotion. If it would be the means of keeping these young adventurers at home, he should feel happy in giving the bill its greatest latitude, and should, therefore, support the original clause.Mr. Fuller
 rose and observed with considerable warmth, that a grosser forgery had never been submitted to that house.Mr. Fuller
804 again rose and apologized for his abrupt manner of rising before. He said that this business was a gross cheat; a palpable trick to swindle the public; or, if it was not absolute swindling, it went very near the wind. When they came to solicit his subscription, he thought they were at the head of some respectable corporation, but what did they turn out to be? A parcel of Quakers or Presbyterians, or whatever they were called. They had got at first five guineas from him; but the moment he detected them, he threatened them with a Bow-street officer and a charge for swindling; and the dread of detection soon frightened them into a re-delivery of his five guineas. What a shame then was it to see their cause espoused by any man in that house. A member of parliament should be ashamed of having any thing to do with such fellows. He did not suppose that the hon. baronet shaved in their gains [a laugh.] That gentleman was welcome to laugh if he
804Mr. Fuller
 reprobated the language held by Mr. Creevey, that the East India Company were bankrupts; and contended that while the committee was composed of men perfectly competent to examine into the state of the company's affairs, the conduct of the hon. gent. this evening, was such as to detract much from the weight of any observations which he might in future make upon the report when it was made.—The motion was accordingly withdrawn.Mr. R. Thornton
805 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a copy of an exposition of the Affairs of the East India company, which had been laid before the committee by the directors. A Report had been already presented to the house by the East India committee, upon which a grant of money to the company was to be moved. His object was to have this paper before the house, in order that when gentlemen came to vote on the question, they might be as well informed upon the subject as the committee. The hon. member stated
805Mr. Creevey
808 observed, that he would never retract what he might at any time have said respecting the committee, but still maintained that it was improperly constituted. He would watch over their proceedings, however, in whatever manner he thought proper. The report consisted of
808Mr. Creevey
 stated, that he had agreed with the majority of the committee, that it was best to defer presenting the Exposition, till they reported on the subject to which it chiefly related: erroneous speculations might be formed upon that document, both in and out of the house, if it should be laid on the table without the observations of the committee.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that this was a good answer as far as the committee was concerned. But the question for the house to consider was, whether they were to vote a grant of money to the Company without having an opportunity of examining this exposition of their affairs?Mr. Windham
 said, that the question ought to be argued upon the general principle of grants upon superannuation, and not upon the strained analogy of reducing the Scotch judges to the same standard as the judges of this country. Such an assimilation reminded him of the old fable, 'How we apples swim.' And as to the plurality of duties, the division of such labour was more like the division of business between Jack and Tom: 'What are you doing, Jack r'—' Nothing, sir.' What are you doing, Tom t'—'Helping Jack, sir.' Let gentlemen speak of it as they would, it was, after all, nothing more than spreading a small substance upon a great extent. It did appear to him to be a provision not at all called for.Mr. Windham
807 said, that the house did not know whether the paper related to the report or not. If any member, after
807Sir J. Anstruther
 felt no resentment at the warm language of the hon. gent. He wished the hon. gent. was in as perfect good humour with himself, as he and the house were with him. The Jennerian Society was not instituted till 1803. The original Cow Pox Inoculation Society was instituted in 1799. The Institution which the petition related to, was established in 1806, he allowed principally by a set of Quakers, a sect to whose moral and virtuous principles and conduct, he was happy to bear testimony. Since that time this Institution had communicated the vaccine matter to 81,000 persons in every situation of life. The petitioners desired only to have the facts alleged in their petition inquired into; and hoped for public aid only in the event of their being found entitled to it on public grounds.—The petition was ordered to lie on the table.Sir T. Turton
 presented a Petition from the managers of the London Vaccine Institution, stating the effects of their care and the exertions used under their direction, in spreading Vaccine Inoculation. The petitioners prayed public aid, the institution having been hitherto supported only by voluntary contributions. Before the Petition was read,Sir T. Turton
813812 pursuant to notice, rose to move for leave, to bring in a bill to amend the constitution of Courts Martial. He was aware of the objection against interfering with the prerogative. But the interference that he proposed would be far from infringing on the just rights of the crown. In no age had the crown the power of managing the whole administration of the army, at its unlimited discretion. The high constable and earl marshal in antient times regulated the affairs of the army under due responsibility. On the attainder of Stafford, duke of Buckingham, high constable in the reign of Henry VIII, that monarch assumed and exercised the whole powers of the superintendance and government of the army. But the arbitrary principles of that monarch, and his immediate successors, rendered these practices no precedent for the justice of modern times.
813812Mr. Lyttleton,
814 represented that the measure proposed could not possibly be entertained in the present session, as it was incompatible with several provisions in the Mutiny Act, particularly with that which bound members of Courts Martial to keep their decisions secret till they should be revised by the crown. But, in answer to the general reasoning of the hon. member, he should argue, without going back to the times before the Revolution, which afforded no precedent applicable at present, that the interference proposed would be injurious. The hon. gent, allowed that his majesty ought always to have the power of judging what officers he should employ, and what officers he should dismiss. He would ask, then, what difference the alteration proposed in the
814The Secretary at War
 from the obvious fact of naval discipline being adequate to every good purpose, saw no reason why the more just and equitable constitution of naval Courts Martial should not extend to the army. He adverted to the case of col. Cochrane Johnstone, and insisted on the hardship of punishing that gentleman after he had been acquitted by the Court Martial. A similar influence might again be put into action for the injury of some deserving member of society. No other hopes of advancement should be held out, but those dependent on exclusive merit and military pre-eminence. The greatest possible injury that could be done to the character or feelings of an officer, who had been honourably acquitted, was to pass him over in the list of promotions, except that which went so far as to reverse the sentence of the court by which he was tried. Seeing, as he did, the necessity of reformation, and the wide door which had been opened to abuses, he should certainly support the motion.Sir F. Burdett,
 represented the propriety of guarding against the issue of checks by one partner of a banking house on his fellow partners for ten or fifteen shillings.Mr. Thompson
 consented to withdraw his motion, though he could not help observing, that his wish had been misinterpreted, as well as some of his words. He was not desirous to trench on the royal prerogative: his Bill would only have referred to general Courts Martial, and in this point of view he could not see what distinction could be drawn between naval and military courts. He might at some future period bring forward his motion, when he hoped to render it more palatable to the house.Mr. Lyttleton
818817 said that as to the general principle of leaving agriculture to itself, and not interfering with it by any legislative provisions, that principle would, in justice, be as applicable to the interests of the West India planters, or to the commerce of the country, as to its agriculture. But it was known that the interests of the West India merchants had, in point of fact, been much interfered with by the legislature. Although by the contract under which our islands were cultivated, the planters were to have the monopoly of supplying the empire with sugar; yet, when we occupied St. Domingo, we received 100,000 hogsheads annually from that colony, in competition with the produce of our own colonies, and in violation of the contract made with them. Again, when it was represented that the planters held up the price of their sugar too high, parliament interfered, and let in East India sugar in competition with it. At the time that parliament resolved on this measure, he did not recollect that a single country gentleman raised his voice against the interference of the legislature with the price of the produce of the West India cultivation. If the principle was good in the one case, why was it not also good in the other? Those country gentlemen, who now laid it down so broadly in their lectures on political economy, never thought
818817Mr. Marryatt
819 thought that the general principle which was laid down respecting the impropriety of legislative interference, must be applicable only in general cases. The same principle was equally applicable to the commerce of the country as to its agriculture; and yet, in practice, it was found absolutely necessary for the legislature often to interfere in the affairs of commerce. The evils under which we laboured at the present moment were these: we were excluded from importing, (as we had been accustomed) the surplus corn of other countries to meet a failure of the harvest, and at the same time we were pressed with a glut of West India produce. Those temporary evils could not be remedied by the appli-
819Mr. Bragge Bathurst
 hoped that ministers would not press a measure, when their majorities were so very small, and when the minority was so respectable. It was true, that perhaps they might derive more support from the manufacturing and commercial interests, but he hoped that consideration would not prevent them from doing justice to the landed interest. If he had ever used the term 'gambling speculations' to the cultivation of the colonies, he had certainly never meant to apply the term in an offensive sense; but he was surprised that none of the West India gentlemen ever spoke without using the word monopoly, which was a term that had not been applied to them; and yet he could not conceive how there could exist any great monopoly of corn in this country; whereas there might easily be a monopoly of sugar, as that was an article which was kept in few hands. He thought it was absolute nonsense to think of fixing a maximum in the price of corn. The bad effects of attempting a minimum in the price of labour had been already felt. As to the profits of farmers, he thought it but reasonable that if one part of their crop failed, as it notoriously did at the last harvest, they should charge something more on that part which had not failed. This was the only mode by which they could pay their rent, taxes, and other expences.Mr. Coke
 adverting to the clamours about high prices, observed, that if we were to raise our own supplies, the farmer must have a price that might render it worth his while to cultivate poor as well as rich land.Mr. Calvert,
 objected to it, on the ground that it would make the measure bear heavily upon the lower classes, whilst it would operate lightly on the higher classes. If personal service was enforced in every instance, the measure would not operate so unequally. But as substitution was not allowed, he thought that the lower classes should be permitted to relieve themselves from the pressure of the fine by insurance, as otherwise the measure would be odious in the country.Mr. Bankes
 was surprised at the opposition made to this clause, because it would go to the whole of the bill. This clause was absolutely necessary to render the bill operative, as, if insurance was allowed, the bill could never take effect. The burthen of the service could not be heavy, or the number of volunteers who offered themselves to serve as local militia, would not be so great as the fact proved it to be.The Secretary at War
 thought this clause most highly objectionable, because it imposed a heavy partial burthen upon individuals of the lower class, without allowing them to secure themselves against it by insurance. The measure ought either to enforce in every instance personal service, or insurance should be allowed, because in every case the lesser evil would be preferred. In the lower classes the fine would be a greater evil than personal service, and they of course must serve, whilst with the higher classes the fine would be the lesser evil, and they of course would pay it, and not submit to their personal service. The service would be ruin to many persons in business, who must serve, and if the service would be ruin, the fine which went to compel it must be equally ruinous. No option therefore was given, as was stated by the noble lord, because either alternative must be ruin to the industrious classes, whom it would be most desirable to protect.Mr. Windham
826 stated that there were only two ways of mitigating the severity of conscription by ballot; mitigation by fine, or mitigation by substitution. He preferred the mitigation by fine, and was
826Lord Castlereagh
 thought that the clause, as worded, appeared to be too severe; because it would seem that in every instance the fine was to be the property of the person paying it, whereas he was of opinion that parents should be allowed to pay for their sons, and masters for their apprentices or servants.Mr. Davies Giddy
l. did not approve of permitting persons to insure, and thought 10l.Mr. Babington
827 contended, that by insurance they who insured would not do it to: withdraw themselves from the service of the country, but to enable them to meet an option held out to them by the legislature. He insisted also that it was the middle class of industrious persons that
827Lord H. Petty
 acceded to the principle suggested by Mr. D. Giddy, and had no doubt that a proviso might be prepared to allow fathers to pay the fine for their sons, and masters for their apprentices or servants, without interfering with the general operation of the bill.—A division then took place, when the numbers were, For the Clause, 106; Against it, 16.—Majority, 90.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed his surprise that the noble lord should be so anxious to precipitate the last stage of the bill, the more so, as it had this night been allowed to proceed two stages.Mr. Windham
828 felt no less surprised at the surprise of the right hon. gent., for surely no hurry had taken place in the progress of the bill; on Wednesday last the bill was in a committee, and then the only clauses to which the right hon. gent. had objected, were again under consideration. There was now to occur an interruption of business for three or four days, and during that period, the right hon. gent, would surely be able to make up his mind with respect to any further objections which it might be his intention to offer against the principle or the provisions of the bill.828Lord Castlereagh
 stated the fact, that in Feb. 1802, the price of wheat was higher at the opening of the distilleries than now when they were to be shut; and then there could not be a prospect of an abundant harvest, which we at present had. This fact was a complete answer to all that had been said respecting a scarcity.Lord Burghersh
s.824823s.s.s.;s.,s. said, that as he had expressed his sentiments pretty fully upon the subject before the house the last time it was under consideration, he should not then long intrude upon their patience, but he could not help entreating the hon. gentlemen opposite, that at least they would state some specific reasons to justify the apprehensions which had been declared of a scarcity of grain in the country. The hon. gentlemen would make no reply upon a topic which had been again urged, and had been particularly referred to, by an hon. baronet, (sir G. Warrender), namely, the market price of corn, of wheat in particular, at which it was then proposed to prohibit the grain distillery, as compared with what it was upon former occasions, when the same measure was adopted. Wheat was then at the time he was speaking only 72s.824823s.s.s.;s.,s.Mr. Western
 expressed his surprise at the silence of ministers on a question of this importance. He wished to know, whether they considered themselves as responsible for this measure, which was brought forward under such suspicious circumstances. He asked, whether it was wise or politic to restrict agriculture in the present circumstances of the country? The proposition appeared to him inconsistent with common sense.Lord W. Russell
 said, that if he thought the measure before the house was at all calculated to affect the interests of agriculture, or to produce that scarcity which it was intended to prevent, he should be one of the last men in the world to vote for it. The landed interest had taken a false alarm on the subject. He highly approved of relieving the West India merchants, from which the landed interest would ultimately derive the greatest benefit.Mr. Eyre
821 spoke as follows:—Sir, after all the attention in my power to bestow on this subject, and after mature consideration of every argument that has been urged in its favour, I cannot say that it appears to me either necessary or expedient. No case whatever has been made out to justify such a dangerous interference with the agriculture of the kingdom; it has not even the ground of probability to support it, and rests its dependance solely on the apprehension that a measure of this kind may become necessary hereafter. Now, sir, if merely upon the bare possibility of a change becoming necessary in the law of the land, we are to proceed and make a most serious innovation on conjecture alone, not on any established fact, are gentlemen aware of the mischievous consequences that may and will arise from the establishment of such a fatal precedent? To sanction this bill we ought to have a strong case before us; none such appears, and I must contend
821Mr. Loveden
815 observed, that the measure proposed would go not only to alter the Mutiny Act, but also the Articles of War. The navy was the characteristic and constitutional force of Britain, and might therefore be governed more by the regulations of the legislature. But the
815Sir A. Wellesley
 brought in a bill for preventing the spreading of Small-Pox infection; which was read a first and second time, committed, and ordered to be printed as amended. Lord Folkestone thought the bill ought to stand over till the next session of parliament—; to which Mr. Fuller acceded. The bill was reported and ordered to be read a third time this day three months.Mr. Fuller
 was ready to admit that Courts Martial required a reform to render the constitution of them and some of their forms of proceeding, more consistent with the general spirit of British law. But the present proposition went too far. If the power of the crown was too much relaxed, the army would become highly dangerous to the people and to the crown also. He allowed the extreme hardship of col. Cochrane Johnstone's case, and would have been happy if it had been in his power to remove the hardship that gent, had suffered. But as the power of the crown was unlimited, and very properly proposed to be left so, as to what officers it would employ, he did not see how the exercise of his majesty's discretion could be remedied by any measure proposing not to meddle with it. The commander in chief finding by the letter of the Judge Advocate, that col. Johnstone was not an officer agreeable to his majesty, abstained from recommending him in his turn for promotion. The only thing that was open to remedy on that proceeding, was to render the Judge Advocate responsible for the advice he should give to his majesty, and that had already been done by a clause in the Mutiny Act, adopted by the house on his suggestion. The system of the navy was inapplicable to the army in many cases. For instance, a captain of a man of war had the power to order a man to be flogged without a trial. The first officer in the army had no such power, and he should be sorry to think he had. He allowed it was desirable that the powers of the Judge Advocate should be defined and understood; and recommended to the hon. gent, who filled that office, to introduce himself some measure to that effect.General Fitzpatrick
 opposed it, on the principle that all political interference of the legislature with the industry and general pursuits of the country was bad. He would allow that particular circumstances might occur which would justify such interference. It might be allowed under well-founded apprehensions of scarcity, or as a measure of temporary policy. He knew, however, of no scarcity either existing or to be apprehended, which called for the present measure. Wheat, which might be considered as the principal food of man, was hardly ever known at a more steady price than it had been for several months past. In case, however, a scarcity should actually take place, he then wished that the crown should possess the power to stop the distilleries by a proclamation. Wheat had for a long time been at a low price, and a price so low as to be hardly adequate to repay the farmer. He therefore felt it his duty to resist the second reading.Mr. Brand
 contended that the present situation of the world, was the strongest argument against any discouragement of agriculture. It was most impolitic to narrow the market, and thereby diminish the production of grain. From the Report of the Committee itself, it appeared that it was improper to extend the measure to Ireland. The distress of the West India colonies was said to spring from the stoppage of the intercourse with the continent. Ministers affirmed that the Orders in Council would open this. These Orders had been six months in operation, and what had they done? The intercourse had only been more effectually put an end to, and the distress of the planters augmented. The best measure of relief would be to open the intercourse direct between the colonies and other nations, while the present state of things continued. He concluded, by declaring his opposition to the measure.Mr. Eden
 objected to the measure, as he thought the interference of the legislature, upon any occasion, with the agriculture or commerce of the country, was highly injurious; excepting in cases of scarcity, of which at present there was not the smallest appearance.Mr. Davies Giddy
 was aware of the variety of shapes in which the abuse existed, and: had taken proper advice previous to the framing of this bill, as to the best means of discovering every species of abuse.Mr. Huskisson
 having given notice of a motion for leave to bring in a bill to regulate and restrain the issue of Promissory Notes reissuable, stated, that on consideration ha was disposed to coincide generally in the representations of those who were of opinion that this credit, as well as every other, ought to be left as free as possible. But much mischief and confusion arose from, the frequent issues of very small notes to the amount of 15 or 20 shillings, the abuse of which was very general. To obviate this evil, he moved for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the issue of promissory notes under the amount of 20s.Mr. Huskisson
 spoke in favour of the bill, which was absolutely necessary to prevent the ruin of the colonies.Mr. Manning
820 was of opinion that the interest of the planter and the interest of the farmer were not only compatible; but
820Mr. Wilberforce
 said the circulation of these small notes was owing to the deficiency of silver coin, and wished ministers to apply the only effectual remedy, which was a new silver coinage.—Leave was given to bring in the bill.Mr. Parnell
822 said, we had been told from, the throne that the eyes of Europe are
822Sir James Hall
 deprecated the tampering with the agriculture of the country, and declared, that this measure would be of the most fatal consequence to the tillage of Ireland, which was becoming a great source of supply to Great Britain. Every thing that he had heard only confirmed his objection to the measure. To prove that there was no actual scarcity, he stated from competent authority that the price of grain was falling in those places where from the stoppage of intercourse with the neighbouring districts, it had risen to the greatest height.Sir John Newport
l.811 represented the variety and extent of frauds formerly practised
l.811Sir J. Newport
 adverted to the great depredations committed in Plymouth dock-yard, and moved for leave to bring in a bill to establish a Police for that yard.Mr. TyrrWhit
 mentioned, that he merely meant to bring it in, and have it printed, with a view to circulate it, and allow it to lie over till next session.Mr. Tyrrwhit
829 gave full credit to the motives of his hon. friend, but he hoped that
829Mr. Bastard
 would not object to the bringing in of the bill, but hoped that neither he nor any in the house, would be understood as pledged to an approbation of it.—Leave given.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
831£.9,767,425
£.9,767,425259,093Supplies as above
259,093Supplies as above2,708,332Great Britain
2,708,332Great Britain2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland
2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary Resource
4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary ResourceAnnual Means for 1808.
Annual Means for 1808.9,767,550
9,767,5506,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).
6,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept
3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808
£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808901,041Deduct Charge, as above
901,041Deduct Charge, as above1,170,134
1,170,134298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808
298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808871,999Loan unapplied
871,999Loan unappliedDischarge.
Discharge.£.901,041
£.901,041200,000Other Articles
200,000Other Articles50,000First Fruits
50,000First Fruits6,000Howth Harbour
6,000Howth Harbour215,484Remains due to Inland Canals
215,484Remains due to Inland Canals400,000Treasury Bills
400,000Treasury Bills29,557Unfunded Dept
29,557Unfunded DeptCharge on 5th Jan. 1808.
Charge on 5th Jan. 1808.82,868Surplus
82,868Surplus280,466Deduct charge as above
280,466Deduct charge as above£.363,334
£.363,3347,500Saving on Bank Management
7,500Saving on Bank Management22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.
22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.333,334
333,334166,666Deduct one third for Malt
166,666Deduct one third for Malt£.500,000d.s.1d.s.
£.500,000d.s.1d.s.Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.
Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332
£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland
120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in England
£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in EnglandInterest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.
Interest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.LOAN FOR IRELAND.
LOAN FOR IRELAND.GENERAL RECAPITULATION.
GENERAL RECAPITULATION.
£.9,767,425
£.9,767,425259,093Supplies as above
259,093Supplies as above2,708,332Great Britain
2,708,332Great Britain2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland
2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary Resource
4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary ResourceAnnual Means for 1808.
Annual Means for 1808.9,767,550
9,767,5506,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).
6,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept
3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808
£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808901,041Deduct Charge, as above
901,041Deduct Charge, as above1,170,134
1,170,134298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808
298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808871,999Loan unapplied
871,999Loan unappliedDischarge.
Discharge.£.901,041
£.901,041200,000Other Articles
200,000Other Articles50,000First Fruits
50,000First Fruits6,000Howth Harbour
6,000Howth Harbour215,484Remains due to Inland Canals
215,484Remains due to Inland Canals400,000Treasury Bills
400,000Treasury Bills29,557Unfunded Dept
29,557Unfunded DeptCharge on 5th Jan. 1808.
Charge on 5th Jan. 1808.82,868Surplus
82,868Surplus280,466Deduct charge as above
280,466Deduct charge as above£.363,334
£.363,3347,500Saving on Bank Management
7,500Saving on Bank Management22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.
22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.333,334
333,334166,666Deduct one third for Malt
166,666Deduct one third for Malt£.500,000d.s.1d.s.
£.500,000d.s.1d.s.Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.
Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332
£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland
120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in England
£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in EnglandInterest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.
Interest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.LOAN FOR IRELAND.
LOAN FOR IRELAND.GENERAL RECAPITULATION.
GENERAL RECAPITULATION.363,000Total
363,000Total7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt
7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits
22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c
£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c
363,000Total
363,000Total7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt
7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits
22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c
£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c830280,462Total
280,462Total159,000The Loan raised in England
159,000The Loan raised in England75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan
75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan£45,562The Loan raised in Ireland
£45,562The Loan raised in Ireland
280,462Total
280,462Total159,000The Loan raised in England
159,000The Loan raised in England75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan
75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan£45,562The Loan raised in Ireland
£45,562The Loan raised in Irelandd.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. after observing that he would detain the house but a very short time, briefly stated, under the various heads, the sums required in Ireland for the service of the year 1808, amounting in all to 9,767,550831£.9,767,425
£.9,767,425259,093Supplies as above
259,093Supplies as above2,708,332Great Britain
2,708,332Great Britain2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland
2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary Resource
4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary ResourceAnnual Means for 1808.
Annual Means for 1808.9,767,550
9,767,5506,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).
6,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept
3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808
£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808901,041Deduct Charge, as above
901,041Deduct Charge, as above1,170,134
1,170,134298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808
298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808871,999Loan unapplied
871,999Loan unappliedDischarge.
Discharge.£.901,041
£.901,041200,000Other Articles
200,000Other Articles50,000First Fruits
50,000First Fruits6,000Howth Harbour
6,000Howth Harbour215,484Remains due to Inland Canals
215,484Remains due to Inland Canals400,000Treasury Bills
400,000Treasury Bills29,557Unfunded Dept
29,557Unfunded DeptCharge on 5th Jan. 1808.
Charge on 5th Jan. 1808.82,868Surplus
82,868Surplus280,466Deduct charge as above
280,466Deduct charge as above£.363,334
£.363,3347,500Saving on Bank Management
7,500Saving on Bank Management22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.
22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.333,334
333,334166,666Deduct one third for Malt
166,666Deduct one third for Malt£.500,000d.s.1d.s.
£.500,000d.s.1d.s.Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.
Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332
£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland
120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in England
£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in EnglandInterest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.
Interest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.LOAN FOR IRELAND.
LOAN FOR IRELAND.GENERAL RECAPITULATION.
GENERAL RECAPITULATION.
£.9,767,425
£.9,767,425259,093Supplies as above
259,093Supplies as above2,708,332Great Britain
2,708,332Great Britain2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland
2,000,000Loan raised in Ireland4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary Resource
4,800,000Revenues and Extraordinary ResourceAnnual Means for 1808.
Annual Means for 1808.9,767,550
9,767,5506,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).
6,337,558Quota of Expence for the Year (5,868,515 Brit.).3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept
3,409,992Interest and Sinking Fund of Dept£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808
£.259,093Surplus to be carried to Ways and Means for 1808901,041Deduct Charge, as above
901,041Deduct Charge, as above1,170,134
1,170,134298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808
298,115Balance in Exchequer, Jan. 5, 1808871,999Loan unapplied
871,999Loan unappliedDischarge.
Discharge.£.901,041
£.901,041200,000Other Articles
200,000Other Articles50,000First Fruits
50,000First Fruits6,000Howth Harbour
6,000Howth Harbour215,484Remains due to Inland Canals
215,484Remains due to Inland Canals400,000Treasury Bills
400,000Treasury Bills29,557Unfunded Dept
29,557Unfunded DeptCharge on 5th Jan. 1808.
Charge on 5th Jan. 1808.82,868Surplus
82,868Surplus280,466Deduct charge as above
280,466Deduct charge as above£.363,334
£.363,3347,500Saving on Bank Management
7,500Saving on Bank Management22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.
22,500d.Duties on Imported Spirits 400,000 gallons, at 13d.333,334
333,334166,666Deduct one third for Malt
166,666Deduct one third for Malt£.500,000d.s.1d.s.
£.500,000d.s.1d.s.Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.
Ways and Means for raising the said Charge.£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332
£.280,466Annual Charge4,708,332120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland
120,5622,000,000 borrowed in Ireland£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in England
£.159,9042,703,332 borrowed in EnglandInterest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.
Interest and Sinking Fund.Irish Money.LOAN FOR IRELAND.
LOAN FOR IRELAND.GENERAL RECAPITULATION.
GENERAL RECAPITULATION.363,000Total
363,000Total7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt
7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits
22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c
£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c
363,000Total
363,000Total7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt
7,500Savings in the Management of the Public Debt22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits
22,500Duty on Foreign Spirits£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c
£333,000Extension of the Malt Duties to raw Corn, &c830280,462Total
280,462Total159,000The Loan raised in England
159,000The Loan raised in England75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan
75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan£45,562The Loan raised in Ireland
£45,562The Loan raised in Ireland
280,462Total
280,462Total159,000The Loan raised in England
159,000The Loan raised in England75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan
75,000The Bank, of Ireland Loan£45,562The Loan raised in Ireland
£45,562The Loan raised in Irelandd.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Foster,
 supported the bill. It was not enacted for the advantage of dissenters, and was framed to go as far as any legislative act could go at present for the advancement of the interests of the church. The proportion of salary to the curate was only increased in proportion to the value of the rector's income. This was a just principle. At Oxford he knew of no opposition to it, though he was there so late as last week. The great source of opposition to the bill had been the increase of influence to the bishops. This he always wished to counteract: but, in the present instance he saw no cause of alarm, nor were they parties to any alteration by the present bill. From a conviction that the present bill would be of great public advantage, he felt inclined to give it his whole support.Mr. Lushington
 replied, that every regulation on that subject had been hitherto enforced without effect. All possible steps were now taking to reduce the balances, and he had great hopes that before the next meeting of parliament that object would be in a great measure accomplished.—The house having resumed, the report was ordered to be received to-morrow.Mr. Foster
 objected to the measure, as calculated to interfere without any cause, with the property of the Church, which was as well entitled to the protection of the law as any other, and likely to affect the independence of the Church, as well as to countenance unfounded clamours against beneficed clergymen.Mr. Western
 supported the general principle of the bill, inasmuch as it went to provide an adequate income for the resident officiating clergyman. Residence was the duty of the Rector, and it was due to the parish, that the officiating clergyman should have a sufficient provision to enable him to live as; a gentleman. If the rector accepted a second benefice, it could not be a hardship upon him to make a proper allowance to the curate, who discharged the duty in the parish in which be did not reside.Mr. C. Wynne
837 thought the present an instance of legislative interference uncalled for. It suggested no remedy for the evil it pointed out. No one parish had preferred a complaint. It had been urged, that it was necessary to increase the salaries of residents, yet no proof had been exhibited of this necessity. The ground on which the bill stood was absolutely fanciful and whimsical; it went on a supposition of a necessity which, it appeared, did not exist. It seemed the right hon. mover had affixed the idea of respectability among the clergy to the sort of clothes they should wear, or the hospitality of their household. Poverty had hitherto been the badge and honour of our religion; but opinions had changed, and it was not now necessary alone that the clergy should be respectable, but they must also be rich. The catholic religion had one established principle in it, which had done much for its security and protection from encroachment. Though the higher orders of their clergy might be possessed of wealth, the regular and officiating clergy had all the influence over the lower order of the community, which a similarity of life and equality of income must ever give them under any system of religious government. It was not the wealthy compeer of the squire who would be found to possess the most influence. Increase of salary would fail to make them
837Sir Francis Burdett
841 conceived that there was no call for the bill. This was a case of reform; and he asked if there ever was a question of reform agreed to, without a case being made out? Whenever the worthy baronet near him (sir F. Burdett),called on the house to reform abuses of which he complained, what was the language of the very
841Lord Porchester
 could not see that the present bill ought to be objected to because it did not go entirely to remedy the evils under which the poorer clergy laboured. It was no reason that the house should refuse to do that quantum of good which was in its power, because a still further degree remained, which it could not reach. Instead of endangering, he conceived that by the present measure he was strengthening and securing the foundations on which the church of England rested. The right hon. gent. alluded to a charge made against a right reverend prelate, as it he had improperly presented a foreigner to a vacancy in his gift. He vindicated in strong terms the conduct of that right rev. prelate. He did not pretend to know to what case the allusion had reference, but if it applied to the appointment of a learned person who had been; professor at Smyrna, he could say that it was an appointment highly meritorious; being to a gentleman of whom, except from his character for eastern learning, the right rev. prelate had no knowledge; and was to be considered as a retaining fee to enable the person in question to prosecute the enquiries into the Scriptures, which he had commenced. The right hon. member concluded by moving for leave to withdraw his first motion, that he might move that it be an instruction to the committee to make provision for extending the bill to Ireland.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed that some local jurisdiction was necessary at Plymouth dock.Admiral Harvey
 contended that the present bill was no invasion of church property, and quoted several instances from our history, to shew that such changes often took place, from the time of Richard the 2d. The property of the church was, in fact, that of the people, and certain relative duties were expected to be by them performed to qualify them for their possession. In the eye of the law there was another party with respect to church properly, beside the impropriator and the curates; this was the people of the parish, who had an indisputable right to their services; and the present bill only made such a provision for the clergy as would enable them to perform with credit to the church those duties of benevolence and hospitality prescribed by a religion they professed.Mr. Burton
840 contended that evil existed, and that remedy was called for. There was not a sufficiency of resident clergy to do the duties of the church. The income of the curates did not keep pace with those of the rector, nor with the circumstances of the times. Hence, one curate was often obliged to serve two or three parishes; and thus baptisms and
840Mr. M. A. Taylor
 presented a Petition from John Cartwright of Enfield, in the county of Middlesex, taking notice of the Bill for enabling his majesty to establish a permanent local Militia force in England, under certain restrictions, for the defence of the realm; and setting forth, that the petitioner conceives the said Bill is essentially at variance with the English constitution, and, if it should pass into a law, and make part of the present general system of defence for Great Britain, which general system the petitioner conceives to be fundamentally unconstitutional and defective, that system would thereby be farther countenanced, confirmed, and fortified, whence greater danger to the state, and to the laws and liberties of the people, would arise, than that to which they are already exposed; and therefore praying, that the said bill may not pass into a law.—The Petition was read, and ordered to lie on the table.Mr. Brand
835l.l. considered the bill a direct violation of property, which had ever been respected. The stipend of a curate had, about twelve years since, been fixed at 75835l.l.Mr. Creevey
 strongly supported the measure, and expressed a hope that the noble lord would not continue to refuse his assent to the proposition that the bill should then go into a committee.Mr. Tyrrwhit Jones
836 not being a member of the established church, was afraid almost to say any thing on the subject, as it seemed to be connected with party and religious considerations, some of which might be conceived to involve himself; but, nevertheless, he felt himself called on to support the principle set forth by his hon. friend (Mr. Creevey), that there should be no remuneration without reference to labour. He objected strongly to the increase of the influence of the bishops, and wished that livings, both in the hands of lay impropriators as well as others, should be placed on a better foundation. He perfectly absolved the mis-
836Mr. W. Smith,
838 said, that it was admitted that the object of the bill was to provide for the poorest order of the clergy. This he thought a great object, and it was adequate for this object. In the great contest in which the noble lord opposite (lord Milton) and he were lately engaged, he
838Mr. Wilberforce
839 regarded the bill now under consideration in a very different light from the hon. gent. who spoke last. He conceived it to be a measure calculated to undermine and weaken, rather than to strengthen that church which the hon. gent. professed so much to admire. It seemed to him to be a bill calculated to sow dissention and discontent, rather than seed likely to produce good fruit. It appeared calculated to set the curate against the rector, and the rector against the curate. It was a bill to endanger, not to benefit the church of England. He was far from denying that the legislature might not interfere to regulate church property as well as any other. Nobody could deny that proposition; but still it remained a question, was such interference necessary? Nobody could deny that the king held the reins of government for the benefit of his subjects. But still the talking of cashiering kings was a doctrine not to be lightly introduced, or to be acted on but in cases of the most crying necessity. In the same manner, though the legislature might have a controul over the property of the church, it was a controul to be seldom exercised, nor even to be often talked of; it being a fact that the solidity of the tenure, by which the property was held, was diminished even by the frequency of the dis-
839Mr. Windham
 thought that some measure of this sort would be very useful, if it was not absolutely necessary.Sir C. Pole
 expressed sonic doubt that the bill, as it then stood, would have a tendency to sow schism between the curates and the incumbents; but at the same time declared, that he hoped that by its being passed through a committee, it would receive such modification as would be the means of attaining the general object; namely, that of bettering the condition of the inferior clergy throughout the empire.Sir C. Price
 expressed his surprise at the statement of the hon. baronet respecting the neglect of bishops in admitting improper persons into the church. There was no point in which so much improvement had taken place respecting the church, even within the last 20 years, as in the arrangements made for the examination of persons, candidates for holy orders, in order to secure the admission of none but proper persons.Mr. Manners Sutton
833l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.832l.l.l.l.l.l.d.l.l.l.l. observed, that he could not agree in opinion with the right hon. gent. (Mr. Foster), that the Loan for 1,250,000833l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.832l.l.l.l.l.l.d.l.l.l.l.Mr. Parnell
 inquired into the state of the Collectors Balances. Last year they had increased 60,0001. He did not attach blame to this circumstance, but he wished to know what prospect there was of their being reduced.Sir J. Newport
 declared himself the last man in the house' to oppose a well-regulated reform with respect to the establishment of curates. As far as the bill went to propose a remedy for that great grievance, he gave it his support. He must, however, say, that it did not meet the existing evil in Ireland, nor was it calculated generally to answer the ends for which it was intended.—The question being again put, that the Speaker do leave the chair,Sir J. Newport
 admitted the fact of the depredations, and only doubted whether this would be the best mode of remedying the evil. He would not, however, object to the bringing in of the bill.Sir W. Elford
 opposed the passing of this bill into a law. The grand objection he had to it was, that it gave the most improper influence to the bishops, who were altogether dependent on the crown, and who would not fail to extend the interests of the crown, through the medium of the regular clergy, among the population of the island. This was an evil of the greatest magnitude. The objection made by his hon. friend, he thought related not to dissenters in name, but applied to such as outwardly professed the established church, but dissented from the true spirit of the 39 Articles, and were enemies in principle to the established church. The more residents, he believed, the less would be the number of sectaries; but from the peculiar frame of this bill, he should propose that the house should go into a committee on it, though he should vote against its passing into a law.Lord Milton
l.l.842 pursuant to notice, rose to call the attention of the house to this important subject. The object he had in view was, as the established Institution might not prove adequate to its purpose, in consequence of the falling off of private subscriptions, to establish a public and Central Institution in London, whence the real vaccine matter would be distributed to all parts of the empire. He proposed that the president and four censors of the College of Physicians, and a certain number of the College of Surgeons, should be placed at the head of this Institution, to whom all doubtful cases should be referred. The right hon. gent, after
l.l.842Mr. Rose,
 reminded the house of the different complexion which the discovery had now assumed from that under which it was first introduced to the public. It was at first said to be a thing so simple in itself, that any old woman might perform the operation, whereas it was now described as one so extremely difficult, that it ought only to be entrusted to men of great professional skill and experience. There was some danger, therefore, that we might be fostering a very fatal mistake. With this impression, he confessed, that in the present circumstances, he felt considerable difficulty in voting for any measure, the object of which was to disseminate it. He thought, at all events, that before tying the house down by a Resolution, it would be better to appoint a Committee, further to inquire into the efficacy of the discovery.Sir F. Burdett
 disapproved of the hon. gent.'s withdrawing his motion; and gave notice, that, on Thursday, he should move for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the state of the Tythes in the county of Kerry.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 explained. His object was merely to bring the house to a Resolution such as he had proposed, and to communicate that Resolution to his majesty by address, in order to his giving such directions as would be suitable to the case.Mr. Rose
 declared, that though he considered the discovery to be of the very greatest importance, he could not figure any circumstances whatever that could induce him to follow up the most favourable report of its infallibility which might be brought forward, with any measure of a compulsory nature.Mr. Secretary Canning
 contended, that as the evidence was still in some degree incomplete respecting the efficacy of Vaccination as an infallible preventive of the small pox, it was highly proper that the investigation should be persevered in under the eye of the public; and as this was one object that he conceived the right hon. gent, to have in view in his Institution, he thought this object more likely to be attained by one general institution, than by a number of small institutions, some of which were not perhaps altogether exempt from the imputation of being guided by mercenary motives.Lord H. Petty
843 said, that at Calcutta the small pox was entirely annihilated by the introduction of vaccination and a proper system of regulation; and was of opinion, that by proper super intendance the same result might be attained in this country. He thought also that without having recourse to compulsion, the chil-
843Mr. Fuller
 did not mean to oppose the Resolution, though he thought it would have been much more desirable to have left this matter to take its own course. It was a wild and extravagant idea to suppose that the small pox could be exterminated by compulsion, and one that ought not to be entertained by parliament for a moment. The people would, in the course of a few years, under such an impression, neglect the precaution of inoculation for the small pox or vaccination, and then the disease would break out with tenfold severity.Mr. Duvies Giddy
844 said that in foreign countries there was a firm and decided opinion of the efficacy of Vaccination as a preventive of the small-pox; and he did not think that the instances of alleged failure in this country were sufficient to shake our confidence in it. But if any
844Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that since he gave notice of his intention of submitting to the house a motion respecting the collection of Tythes in Ireland, he had had an opportunity of learning, from the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, that this subject had been for some time under the consideration of his majesty's ministers, and that it still was so, with a view of bringing forward some measure for remedying the evils complained of, if it should appear to them that any measure could be devised for this purpose. Under these circumstances, he conceived he should best consult the interests of those who desired an alteration in the present system of tythes, if he postponed his motion for the present. He would, therefore, do so; wishing it, however, to be distinctly understood, that if his majesty's ministers did not bring forward some measure early in the next session he would then submit to the house the same motion which he had proposed to submit to it on Monday next.Mr. Parnell
 thought it would have been a preferable mode of proceeding to move for a committee to investigate the subject. There were already three Institutions in London for the express purpose of propagating the Cow pox, and in his opinion, the object which the right hon. gent, had in view, was more likely to be obtained by private subscriptions, and by any assistance which government might think proper to grant in aid of such subscription, than by an Institution formed expressly under the auspices of the legislature.Sir T. Turton
l. then moved, that his majesty's most gracious Message be referred to the Committee of Supply. He took this opportunity of stating, that though this Treaty was now for the first time brought forward, it was no new transaction, but one which the present ministry had found to have been in the contemplation of their predecessors, and that in the year 1805 it had been intended to conclude a treaty with the king of Sicily, by which a subsidy of 300,000l.Mr. Secretary Canning
 objected to a measure of this kind, which had been formerly withdrawn, on account of the late period of the session, being again brought forward, without any ground assigned, and also at an advanced period of the session. He should therefore negative the motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 introduced a number of new clauses by way of riders. Four of these, supplying omissions of the bill, were read and agreed to. On the fifth being brought up, which went to confer on magistrates the power of allotting at their discretion, to persons giving information of offences against the said act, a part not exceeding one third of the penalty, on conviction,Lord Castlereagh
850 stated, that all the
850Lord Castlereagh
 then proposed a clause, enabling the magistrates to call out the Local Militia in cases of riot; and providing that whatever number of days they should be out in this manner, should be deducted from the subsequent number of days of drill.Lord Castlereagh
 opposed it as shifting the power lodged by the constitution in the sheriff to the magistrates.Sir F. Burden
 defended the clause. If any disturbance existed in the country, to whom could the house intrust the power given by this clause, more safely than to the magistrates.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended, that as it was a perfect novelty, and involved in it most important principles, it ought not to be introduced by way of rider to a bill, but ought to be brought forward in a separate form, and deliberately discussed.Sir S. Romilly
 stated, that this clause was literally copied from the Volunteer acts, and as a considerable number of the volunteer corps were likely to become a Local Militia, it was desirable to have the same provision applicable to them in case of their being called out on this service.Lord Castlereagh
854 expressed his disapprobation of the measure, both as oppressive and unconstitutional. The bill united in itself all opposite defects. It was at once oppressive and ineffectual; harrassing to the subject, and at the same time completely impotent as a measure of national defence. It ought rather to be called a
854Sir F. Burdett
 defended the system pursued in the British army, against the insinuations of the hon. baronet; and asked how an army could be kept together or be harmless without enforcing discipline? Was not the necessity of discipline manifested by the experience of all nations and of all times?The Secretary at War
855 contended, that the discipline in the British army was milder than in the army of any other country. The discipline in Russia and
855The Hon. F. Robinson
 supported the measure, as believing that it must be productive of a much better system than the present volunteer establishment.Mr. C. W. Wynne
 objected to that provision, as likely to produce an injurious and unequal effect, and moved an amendment to leave out the words, "that a separate account be kept of fines and penalties." Some short conversation took place upon this amendment, but it was negatived without a division.—On the motion that the bill do pass,Mr. C. Wynne
 supported the measure, and maintained that any private soldier could obtain redress by an application to his royal highness the commander in, chief.General Stewart
 informed the hon. gent. that this was not the proper time.The Speaker
 observed, that both soldiers and sailors in the French service were flogged with a cat-of-nine-tails.Admiral Harvey
l. said, that instead of being either lord or commoner, as the hon. gent, would have it be supposed all the associators at the St. Alban's tavern were, his informant must have been a post-master. He never did say what the hon. gent, had stated. He had said, that the best mode of effecting their purpose was by encouraging a competition: and where there was only a single house, to encourage a rival. He had said, that the power of checking the evil in this respect, where charges were enormous, was in the breast of the magistrates themselves; and that they were too frequently enormous, he instanced the charge of 150l.Mr. Fuller
 objected to this mode of introducing new provisions into a bill, without affording any opportunity of duly considering them.Mr. Barham
 was of opinion, that it: would be improper to have the Local Militia on a different footing in point of discipline from the regular militia.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said that he would bring the officer to a court martial who would presume to use any man under his command in the manner that had been alluded to.General M. Mathew
 proposed that some personal notice should be served upon the members in the Local Militia when called out on such occasions, before any penalty could attach; but that suggestion was over-ruled; after which the clause was added to the bill by way of rider.Mr. Sheridan
 gave notice, that he would on Monday next put certain questions to his majesty's ministers relative to the nature of the advices lately received from Spain, tending to ascertain the state of that country, the conduct that this country ought to pursue with respect to it, and the conduct his majesty's government meant to pursue. He did not mean to press for any improper disclosure, either with regard to Spain, or the measures to be adopted here, but merely to come to an, understanding upon general facts and principles.Mr. Sheridan
849 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the act for licensing alehouse-keepers, inn-keepers, &c. Alluding to the meetings held for some time past, at the St. Alban's tavern, for the purpose of preventing any rise in the rate of Posting, he took occasion to express his reprobation of all such combinations among lords and commoners, as, if attempted among the poor and labouring classes of the community, would be deemed illegal, and punished as such. Seeing an hon. member and magistrate for the county of Sussex, however, in the house, he could riot refrain from candidly stating to him a circumstance relating to that hon. member which had reached him, and by the hon. member's explanation of that circumstance he should be enabled to judge, whether he must not extend his bill further than he originally intended. The circumstance to which he alluded was this; that at one of these meetings at the St. Alban's Tavern, it having been doubted, whether it would be better for them to apply for the interference of parliament, or to proceed in their own parliament, that hon. gent. had said, that they were both idle measures, and that the one he recommended to the magistrates of Sussex was
849Mr. Sheridan
851 could not conceive that any amendment could render this clause tolerable. It was one of the most direct infringements on the constitution that he had ever known. Its dangerous tendency could be equalled only by its absurdity. If it were thought advisable to give to the magistracy this power over the Local Militia, why not give
851Mr. Sheridan
 was desirous of proposing a modification by which this obnoxious clause might be amended, if this were the proper time to do so.Mr. Whitbread
 proposed as an amendment, 'that the magistrates, or deputy lieutenants, calling out the Local Militia incases of riot, should not be officers of such Militia;' which was negatived.Mr. Whitbread
 characterised the clause as a great innovation on the constitution.Mr. Whitbread
 denied that it was any innovation on the constitution.Mr. D. Giddy
 denied, from the best authority, that the stick was made use of in the French army, as a mode of punishment. At the same time, though he knew it was by no means general, he could maintain that such a mode of enforcing discipline, was practised here [a cry of No!] Gentlemen might cry No, but he had been an eye-witness of the tact. He mentioned it with a hope that its being publicly noticed might lead to the correction of so gross an error, such a breach of the military constitution.Mr. W. Smith
 did not mean to impute any thins; in the least improper to his royal highness, neither did he mean to say that the practice was general.Mr. W. Smith
853852 congratulated the house upon the lessons which it had received in the course of the evening, in the science of legislation, by the different processes of
853852Mr. Windham
 thought the clause would be vesting enormous powers in the magistrates; and that it would be useless in its operations, as it would be easier to call in the regular troops, than to assemble this force when dispersed.Mr. Windham
 argued against the clause, because the regular troops, in case of being called out to suppress a riot, acted with a degree of caution which would not be exercised by an undisciplined force.—Mr. Windham
 concurred in the opinion of the hon. gent, declaring that he thought five riders upon one horse were too many, however long his back might be.Mr. Windham
857856 in rising to support the bill, begged to have it understood that he was not inclined to do so from any love which he bore to the measure itself, nor from any expectation that the great inconveniences to which it would expose the country, would be compensated by any adequate addition to our internal strength; but as leading to the measure proposed by his noble relation the earl of Selkirk, to which it bore a considerable resemblance in point of form, though very different in spirit and tendency. The difference between the two systems depended principally upon one practical circumstance, by the alteration of which one of these systems might be converted into the other; namely, the circumstance of raising the men required by a ballot upon all persons from 18 to 35, as proposed by the noble lord; or, on the other hand, by calling out all the young men who in each successive year attained the age of 18, as proposed by his noble friend. He had concurred with some of
857856Sir Jas. Hall
 thought this clause of much importance, and that it was of still greater importance, not to allow this new practice of adding so much additional matter, without a possibility of ascertaining its precise tendency.Sir J. Newport
 rose, and objected to the Speaker leaving the chair, as he thought the report alluded to was perfectly unsatisfactory, and contained so little information, that it would be quite improper for the house to go into its consideration. On a former occasion an objection had been stated as to the manner in which that committee had been formed, and he still looked upon that objection as being justified by the report now upon the table. There were, in his opinion, various facts, of which the house ought to be in possession, before they proceeded to vote any great sum of money to the East India Company.Lord Folkestone
l. repeated the objections he had urged before the house had gone into a committee, and then moved as an amendment, That instead of 1,500,000l.Lord Folkestone
 stated, that the principle upon which he had proposed a grant of five pounds, was merely for form sake, as he objected to the voting of any sum whatever upon the Report in its present imperfect state. He did not object to the paying of Indian interest so much as he did to the expence which was charged for carrying out bullion to India.Lord Folkestone
862l.l. entered into a detail of the circumstances by which Naples had been drawn into the war with France, and stated that it had been done by a Russian commander who had landed troops there. But the king of Naples being drawn into the war, G. Britain was bound by every consideration to assist him in his defence. The engagement to pay 25,000862l.l.Mr. Secretary Cunning
864 objected to the mode in which the money was expended, and the bad taste which prevailed in the pretended improvements. He thought it sufficient to grant a part of this large sum at pre-
864Mr. Windham
 agreed with the right hon. gent, in condemning the mock Gothic front of the house of lords. The remaining buildings should be submitted to such judgment as would insure a better taste.Mr. Long
 said, that he really did not know under whose authority these improvements were conducted; but some of them consisted in lath and plaister, and he should be very happy that they were pulled down.Mr. Rose
 thought no new grant should be made till care should be taken that the new expenditure did not get into the same hands as the former. The present front of the house of lords was something like the appointment of Dr. Duigenan to the privy council, every one was ashamed of it, and nobody would avow himself the author of it. He recommended undoing the improper appointment, as well as pulling down the miserable building.Mr. Sheridan
 joined in condemning the improvements, as they were called, and, by some persons, had been thought, but for which, he declared himself in no way responsible. With respect to what was to be done, the plans were now before the house, so that it only, and not the commissioners, would be responsible, either for adopting or rejecting them.The Speaker
l.l. was glad that this subject had attracted the notice of the committee, and reprobated the practice of voting the public money, when no one was responsible for its application. He moved that instead of 75,000l.l.Mr. Bankes
 though he had every wish for œconomy, thought the present building so disgraceful that he would vote for a new one. He thought that a committee ought to be appointed to inquire who authorised the raising of the buildings, who audited the accounts, and who issued the orders for their payment.Mr. Whitbread,
 believed that the works were ordered by the Surveyor General of the Board of Works, and that they might have been paid by an order from the Treasury. But he asserted that every shilling of the money had been accounted for, and that the accounts had been as scrupulously examined, as any public accounts ever had.Mr. Rose
 condemned the front of the house of lords, and denied all knowledge of the plan.Lord H. Petty
 said, a general order had been given to comply with the wish expressed by the house of lords for additional buildings. Nobody knew any thing of the plan till the building exhibited itself in its present form.The Speaker
 stated that, in consequence of the difficulties the Board of Treasury found in getting proper accounts from the Board of Works, measures had recently been taken to put the great expence of that Board under proper controul.Mr. Huskisson
 condemned the shameful carelessness, which, from whatever quarter proceeding, was so evident, from the disgraceful state of the exterior of the house of lords. The professed object was to give that house a handsome outside; whereas, to speak plain English, its pilastres appeared nothing better than a set of elongations, to which, under certain circumstances, the members might occasionally retire. The work which had been erected was a paltry building, and he was not surprised the public thought their money thrown away upon it.Mr. Fuller
 preferred the eyesore of the present building to the expence of pulling it down. The authority for purchasing the building was given in 1806, and notice was given to the holders inconsequence. On this ground, he thought it right to vote the original sum: which was voted accordingly.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated that we had, and should have, the controul over the third; but that the provision respecting the two was adopted with a view to the number of troops we could furnish. He also observed, that the duties paid by our soldiers on certain articles of provision in Sicily were to be drawn back in the payments to be made under the treaty.Mr. Secretary Cunning
 stated that there could be no doubt as to the construction of This article, as it was the amendment of that one which had last year been objected to, precisely on the ground mentioned, that it might bind us to more than we could perform. Still if we could restore Naples to the king of Sicily, we should be glad to do it, although we could not enter into any engagement to do it.Mr. Secretary Canning
 was not aware of any good that could arise from the agitation of such a subject, and must only suppose, that the object of the right hon. gent., in making such a motion, was merely to draw a speech from one of his majesty's ministers.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
869s.s.s.868 rose to oppose the third reading of the bill for suspending the grain distillery. He said he could not suffer it to pass that stage, without again declaring the same decided hostility to its principle which he had avowed upon its first introduction. Nothing had been urged that removed any objection to it he had originally felt; so far from it, the more he considered the measure, in every point of view it appeared to him contrary to every principle of sound policy, infinitely mischievous, on account of the establishment of a dangerous precedent of interference with the agriculture of the country, and at the same time wholly uncalled for by any pressure, or even appearance of scarcity present or to be apprehended. If any danger should arise in consequence of the harvest being at all deficient, it might be as well guarded against by an order of council, instead of agitating the public mind by the means which had been pursued. There were two or three circumstances to which he wished to advert, relative to the consumption of grain in the distilleries and the foreign import, and which he thought it material to state to the house, especially so because he believed that the opinion which prevailed relative to the amount of such foreign grain imported, and of grain consumed in the distilleries, was very erroneous. The report of the committee tended to confirm these erroneous opinions by taking only one average of the foreign importation, namely upon the last five years, and also by not taking the last official return of the quantity of grain annually consumed in the distilleries in Ireland, amounting to 890,000 barrels. The importation of foreign corn was stated to amount to 770,000 quarters annually, and which certainly was the case upon the average of those five years; but he begged to call the attention of the house to the importation of the two last years, and which it was more material for us to consider. It would be found that the import of foreign corn in the year 1806 amounted to only 319,000 quarters. In 1807, it was certainly a great deal more, but if the two years were averaged it would not exceed 500,000 quarters each year, inclusive of the import of flour. This view of our situation ought to be exhibited to the public, as it was material in every point of view and
869s.s.s.868Mr. Western
 observed that the objections of the noble lord would be better reserved for the committee.Mr. R. Dundas
l.860 then stated, that it would be unnecessary for him to say much, as the Report contained most of the facts that were necessary to be detailed. Some misunderstanding had arisen between the Accountants of the Company and the public, which were referred to the committee appointed upon East India affairs, who had thought it necessary to adhere to the principles laid down by the former committee. The first article charged by the Company was the expence of prisoners of war conveyed by his majesty's ships to India, immediately upon capture, which necessarily became chargeable upon the public; and the next was the expence of remitting to India such sums of money as had been paid by the Company to the public in liquidation of the balance owing to them. A question had been stated, as
l.860Mr. R. Dundas
 thought the answers satisfactory. He was of opinion, however, that the specific provisions for the defence of the island, ought to have appeared on the face of the treaty, in a manner more full than they actually did.Lord H. Petty
l. supported the Resolution. Although the committee were not vested with the authority of arbitrators, yet they had been appointed to ascertain the amount of the debt due upon either side. The result of their inquiry was, that 2,300,000l.Mr. Tierney
 objected to the practice of granting money, as appeared to have been done here, without the matter having been regularly before parliament, which had a right to examine into the grounds of giving away their money, and the manner in which it was expended. He also thought, that a treaty of commerce ought to have accompanied this engagement. The omission of an opportunity to do that, while we were giving away our money, might be felt in the case of Sweden, with respect to which perhaps, we might be involved in great difficulty about our Orders of Council.Mr. Bankes
 thought it sufficient to observe, that he had communicated the substance of his intended motion to his right hon. friend, the secretary for foreign affairs, whose absence he had now to regret, because he was certain, that had his rt. hon. friend been present, he would have made no objection to the nature of the motion he had to propose. He had so framed it, that it was impossible the entertaining of it could cause any public detriment, or expose ministers to any violation of that discretion and secrecy which it was their duty to observe in matters of this sort. But if that right hon. gent, was ignorant of the purport of this motion, it was only a new proof of the shyness of communication which he had reason to believe existed between that right hon. gent, and his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning); otherwise he could not account for the disapprobation which the right hon. gent, had now manifested of any motion of the nature he had intended to make, being brought under the consideration of the house.Mr. Sheridan
 was determined to persist in his motion. It could be productive of no evil, and it might give rise to much good. He felt the urgency of the business, and was therefore resolved not to leave it to the slow and skulking hesitation of ministers. As to the apprehensions of his hon. friend, he was confident that he should not only be able to allay those apprehensions, but succeed in convincing his hon. friend of the propriety of the motion which he intended to make.—Mr. Sheridan having thus persisted in his motion, it was fixed for Wednesday,Mr. Sheridan
 was anxious to dissuade his right hon. friend from stirring any inquiry into the affairs of Spain at so critical and perilous a moment. In his opinion, every matter of that kind, under the peculiar circumstances of the moment, should be left entirely and exclusively to the discretion of the executive power.Mr. Whitbread
 desired some explanation as to the lateness of the time at which this treaty was laid before the house; and how this sum came to be paid so long by government without any former communication to parliament. Policy required, that when we gave away such large sums we should know wherefore. He also observed, that returns ought to have been laid before the house, of the proper application of this money. He observed in the treaty that a particular number of men was mentioned, as that which it would be necessary to provide for its defence. He did not approve of this. It was certainly enough for us to say that we would defend it, leaving the number to our discretion.Mr. Whitbread
 admitted that the answer to the first question was satisfactory, and was glad that a Russian and not a British commander had been guilty of that most impolitic, absurd, and pernicious act, the forcing of Naples into the war at the time she had concluded a treaty of neutrality with France. He, however, saw no reason why we were to have the controul of two forts in the island and not of the third and most important. He thought we should have had an option of putting our garrisons in which ever of them we pleased, or in all.Mr. Whitbread
l. said, that he was rather disposed to agree to the Resolution, with the exception of one item, amounting to 100,000l.Mr. Creevey
 was of the same opinion as the noble lord; but would not object to the house going into the committee.—The house having gone into a Committee of Supply,Mr. Creevey
 stated that the account of the disposal of the money had been always laid before parliament, though the thing, he admitted, had not been done in the most regular way.—The Resolution was then agreed to.Mr. Huskisson
 said there was a provision in the treaty that appeared to bind us to restore Naples to the king of Sicily at a peace. He was sorry for this: because, as we wished always to perform our engagements, we ought rather to promise less than more than we could do. This was not, perhaps, the meaning intended; but it might bear that construction.Mr. Wilberforce
 had heard a great deal more importance attached to the third tortress than to those of Messina and Augusta, as being more directly in the line of the place, where an enemy from the opposite coast could soonest reach. He certainly thought, therefore, that the stipulation ought to have been express for our occupying this fortress.Mr. Windham
 said, he most heartily concurred in the Resolution, as it appeared to him it was fair and reasonable the Company should receive payment of the money in the same place, and in the same manner, in which it had been borrowed. The public must be paying interest for that money, until such time as it was sent out to India, and therefore he thought there could be no question as to who should bear the loss.Sir John Anstruther
d.s.l.l;l. in the committee of supply, after recapitulating the different proceedings on the Claims of Mr. Palmer, stated that a sum of about 68,000d.s.l.l;l.Sir T. Turton,
 contended, that it was the duty of that house to watch and be jealous of every office. He hoped, as the right hon. gent. had said, if the hon. baronet should carry his motion, that he would extend his motion to the office of that right hon. gent. There were certainly in the commons many persons who were as well qualified as the king's proctor to conduct the business. It had been said, that the interests of the navy itself were better provided for by the present practice; but the contrary was the impression universally felt in the navy, though most unwarrantable measures were employed by the admiralty to stifle their complaints. He knew the fact, because a petition had been put into his hands, complaining of gross abuses, and signed by many of the most respectable persons in the navy, some of whom withdrew their names, in consequence of their having been menaced with the vengeance of the admiralty; and he had refused to present the petition afterwards, lest he should thereby draw down that vengeance upon the parties. Upon these grounds he should support the Resolutions.Mr. Bastard
873dominus litis, felt it necessary to oppose the Resolutions, as injurious to the interests of the nation, and of the navy itself. If the hon. officer felt so strong an impression upon the subject, it was rather matter of surprise that he had not persuaded any one of the various boards of admiralty, which had existed since he had first mentioned this subject, to think with him. And, certainly, there had been amongst those boards, some with which the hon. officer had some influence. It was to the executive or to the board of admiralty that any application should be made, and not by address from this house. The right hon. gent. then entered into a detailed statement, to shew that it was the interest of the navy itself, that the king's proctor should be employed on their behalf. Numberless complaints had within the last four years been made against privateers, and the reason was, that the owner of the privateer was his own 873dominus litis,The Advocate General
 opposed the motion, because it had not been shewn that the delays which took place, in the decision of causes in the courts of prize jurisdiction arose from a want of proctors. On the contrary, it would be easy to shew, that the interests of the captors were materially benefited by a vast number of causes passing through the hands of a single person.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
876 thought that the best time to reform the constitution of a court of justice was when the offices in the court were respectably and unexceptionably filled; because, at such a time, all personal and party motives must necessarily be excluded. He did not pretend to be intimately acquainted with the mode
876Sir Samuel Romilly
875 dissented from the motion of the hon. admiral, because, if any inconveniencies were felt from the
875The Solicitor General
 observed, that all the advantages which at present resulted from the king's advocate having the management of the prize causes, would exist, though there should be two or more king's proctors; and that all the arguments about the injurious effect of an unrestricted liberty of choice were altogether inapplicable. Proceedings, he said, had often been retarded, owing to the management being in one person; and justice to the neutrals, as well as to the captors, required that some alterations should take place. He could not see why the inconveniences might not be remedied without sacrificing any of the advantages.Mr. Johnstone
 supported the motion. Neither the prerogative of the crown, nor the interests of the nation, would be at all injured by the appointment of more than one proctor, for all the proceedings would be as much under the eye of government as before. The proctor considered himself as totally independant of the captors. It would be much better for the navy that they should be enabled to choose a proctor who would be responsible to themselves. He stated various inconveniences that resulted to the captors from the present mode of proceeding, and said, that the navy felt the utmost anxiety for the success of this motion. If it were adopted, the proceedings would be much more rapid, the captors would be much benefited, and no disadvantage whatever would result to the crown or to the public.Mr. H. Martin
 stated that if a cause extended beyond the period of two years, it must be from the fault of the parties. He bore testimony to the respectability and integrity of the present king's proctor, and expressed his surprise that this proposition should have come from any person connected with the navy.Mr. Farquhar
 said, that if it had occurred in times past, that the king's proctor had been employed on both sides of a cause, such regulations were now adopted, as to preclude the possibility of its happening in future.Mr. Robert Ward
874 observed, that the business could not be better managed than it was by the king's proctor and his assistants. He had heard no reason for an alteration in the system. Every reason, on the contrary, was against it. He affirmed that the officers of the navy would be very much injured by having the choice of their own proctors, as appeared from what actually took place from their having the appointment of their own agents. They had at present all the advantage that resulted
874Mr. Stephens
 asserted, that so far from the question being indifferent to the navy, there was a general outcry, he might say, in the navy respecting it. He was willing to concur in all the praises which had been bestowed upon the person at present holding the office of king's proctor. But abuses had taken place before he filled the office, and such abuses might occur again. The hon. and learned gent. might as well argue, that it would be proper and fit for him to conduct every cause in the court of king's bench, as that one proctor should engross the whole business of the court of appeals. Formerly two clerks did the business of the house of commons, and continued to do so till the time of the union, when the increase of business made it necessary to have a third. But the hon. and learned gent, upon his principles, would argue, that because two had been sufficient at one time, they would be sufficient still.Mr. Whitbread
dominus litisdominus litis argued, that if the king was dominus litisdominus litisMr. Windham
 made a short reply, in which he stated, that some causes had been pending in the admiralty courts more than ten years, and that a majority had been pending more than seven years. He should think that he was wanting in his duty if he did not take the sense of the house upon the motion which he had the honour to propose.—The house then divided upon the hon. baronet's motion:Sir Charles Pole
872l.l.871 rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to call the attention of the house and the country to the mode of conducting the business of the Navy in the High Court of Admiralty. It was a subject which he had considered of the first importance to his majesty's naval service, and on which he had more than once endeavoured to express his sentiments to the house, and to urge and pray for amendment; but, he was sorry to say, the influence which the right hon. and hon. members connected with that court possessed, had hitherto effectually prevented the alteration required: this was not to deter him from exerting his utmost to correct evils which were notorious, and which must continue to exist whilst the court was conducted as at present.—It was his intention to move two Resolutions, the one purporting that the duties of the King's Proctor or Procurator-general were so numerous, that no one person was equal to discharge them; the other, that an humble address be presented to his majesty, praying that he would appoint three or more persons to be employed as Proctors in the High Court of Admiralty and High Court of Appeal.—It would require little argument to satisfy any impartial mind with the necessity of these Resolutions, without meaning to cast the smallest cen-
872l.l.871Sir C. Pole
 (of Kerry) likewise objected to the preamble of the bill. Human laws, he said, were made for preventing, not for avenging crimes, and hence it often happened that punishments seemed to be disproportioned to the crimes. There were two different kinds of criminal legislation, according to archdeacon Paley: the one was that which assigned capital punishments only to the highest species of crimes; the other, that which, had been adopted in this country, assigned capital punishments to a variety of crimes, but inflicted it upon only a few persons of each class by way of example. He had no hesitation in confessing that he agreed in opinion with the excellent author to whom he had alluded, but he should not be so averse to the bill itself were it not for the declaration in the preamble. He hoped, however, that at all events it would be postponed till another session.Mr. Herbert
881 thought that there was at least so much good in the bill as to sanction the going into a committee
881The Solicitor General
 confessed that the house ought not rashly to alter the criminal law of the country. The law, however, which it was now proposed to change, had never been executed in the recollection of any person now living. The consequence of this was, that its effect was lessened, because the probability of escape was great. He was of opinion, that it might be expedient to leave a discretionary power to the judges, of transporting for life persons guilty of the offences to which the bill applied; indeed, he thought, that transportation for life was generally preferable to transportation for a limited time; because when the culprits returned, being wholly without character or protection, they were in most cases compelled to revert to their former habits.Mr. C. W. Wynne
 agreed with those who were of opinion, that the house ought to go into a committee on the bill; because there was nothing in the bill which ought not to be the great object of all criminal law, namely, suiting the punishment to the crime.Mr. Ponsonby
883882 did hope that this bill would pass in the present session. He thought the preamble of the bill ought to be retained. It contained the reasons on which he brought in the bill, and on which he hoped it would pass. But if gentlemen thought differently from him, he would give up the preamble, and be
883882Sir Samuel Romilly
884 stated his reasons for proposing certain new clauses. He should suggest certain alterations, both in the description of the offence, and in the punishment to be inflicted. It was a crame of considerable magnitude, and was, no doubt, daily increasing. He could state, however, what appeared to him to be one real cause of criminals having been so often acquitted of the charge of privately stealing. If, upon a trial, it turned out that an individual lost his purse or watch, and had, in the moment, perceived the act committed, that circumstance freed the criminal from the capital part of the punishment. If, on the contrary, the individual robbed perceived the commission of the fact, it being generally committed by gangs of persons, who transferred the property from one to another, still that individual could not fix upon the very person whose hand took the property, and consequently the whole of the criminals were acquitted of the capital part of the charge. This, he thought, accounted much more naturally for the frequent instances of impunity which had occurred. The offence was that of feloniously taking property from the person of another. Grand larceny occurred where property was either taken from the person, or feloniously from a house, and it would therefore be aggravating the offence. He should propose to omit, in the description of the offence, stating whether it was privately or not, in order to contra-distinguish it from robbery, which was the taking of property with violence; although he thought it was an offence bordering upon it; as he believed, there were persons much disposed to use force upon such occasions should they meet with any resistance. He therefore thought, it was a felony that ought to be punished with more severity than mere simple larceny, and he should propose, that a punishment somewhat more adequate than that stated in the bill should be substituted; leaving it at the same time in some degree to the discretion of the Judge, according to the circumstances of the case. His object was to get a punishment somewhat above that of mere larceny, and at the same time below that of a capital offence. He should propose that the highest punishment should be transportation for life, and that the lowest punishment should be
884The Solicitor-General
 considered it a defect in the law of England, not to extend transportation to the natural period of the criminal's existence. He reprobated the idea of increasing the discretionary power of the judge. The law, he thought, should be clear, discriminatory, and decisive, and the less was left to the arbitrary will of the judge, the better. It had been said, that as there were many shades of difference, it would be better the judge should have a proportionate option: admitting even this position, still it would not follow, that transportation for life would not be a national as well as an individual advantage. Whatever might be the nature of the confinement, or punishment, as it was termed, of transportation, it was certain, a temporary banishment was productive of no good effects to the morals of the convicts. Was it, then, proper to send so many young persons and children out to that colony for a short space, who, in the course of nature, might be expected to return pregnant with all the accumulated contagion of those more experienced offenders, who had grown old in habitual vice and infamy? From his present view of the importance of this subject, he assured the house he would early in the next session move, that a Committee be appointed to take into consideration what advantages had followed the introduction of the present system.Mr. Abercromby
886 the chairman, thought the most regular way of introducing the present clause to the consideration of the house, would be by first reporting progress, and then moving in the house, that
886Mr. Wharton,
 observed, that he had not justly incurred the censure so liberally bestowed on him, of indulging in wild theories. The imputation he thought unjust, and undeserved: his intentions were to restore, not to shake, the foundation of the common law. The clause he censured as altogether objectionable. The duration of the punishment for seven years was sufficient to answer all the purposes expected. He wished, if possible, the clause should be received, in order that it might be fully discussed, when the house was in possession of both the act itself and the clause in point.Sir Samuel Romilly
891890 replied nearly as follows:—Mr. Speaker, I am disposed to give every credit to my right hon. friend for his motives in agitating this subject, and I can assure him, that he is very much mistaken if he imagines that it was intended to check or rebuke him, by any thing that was said on a recent evening from this side of the house. At that time al-
891890Mr. Secretary Canning
 perfectly agreed with the right hon. gent. in the objections he had made to the motion of his right hon. friend, and early foresaw those objections. He thought there was much of the information sought for that they could not grant; and of the little they had, perhaps none that it would be prudent to communicate. In such circumstances, neither he, nor any man as ignorant upon the subject as he acknowledged himself to be, could attempt to advise his majesty's ministers what course to pursue, when their course was ultimately to be regulated by that information of which they were exclusively possessed. He therefore could not divine the object of the motion of his right hon. friend. He denied, for himself, that it would operate upon him as a pledge of his future opinions upon the conduct of his majesty's ministers in this important crisis; as, until he had witnessed it, he could not possibly judge of it.Mr. Ponsonby
 rose to explain a misconception which the hon. gent. seemed to feel, as to what he had stated respecting the objects to be prosecuted in the contest. He had mentioned British objects on that occasion, for the purpose only of disclaiming them as any part of the considerations which influenced his majesty's government. In this contest in which Spain, was embarked, no interest could be so purely British as Spanish success; no conquest so advantageous for G. Britain, as conquering from France the complete integrity of the dominions of Spain in every quarter of the world.Mr. Secretary Canning
 opposed the measure in contemplation, as contrary to our established policy. He was persuaded that if the property of foreigners was to be subjected to this tax, it would prove extremely injurious to the prosperity and wealth of this country.Mr. Magens
 was sorry that the subject had been mentioned at all. The sum was extremely small, but the sacrifice of principle would be great. No advantage could be derived from such a measure as this, that would be at all equal to the injury which it would produce.Mr. Sharp
 said that the income tax was in its operation altogether unjust and oppressive; but there was no part of it more unjust than this exemption. It was fair, reasonable and proper, that foreigners who had property in the funds should equally with the subjects of this country pay for the security of that property.Sir T. Turton
 did not think the measure unjust; but at the same time, he thought that it was impolitic to press it at present.Mr. W. Smith
899 observed that the tax in question was not a property tax, but one on the profits derived from property. It would have been impossible to have got
899Lord H. Petty
 denied that there could be any injustice in this measure, as the state had certainly an eminent dominion over the property, and the utmost that foreigners could expect was, to be placed on the same footing with the natives of this country. He asserted that the exemption originated, and had been continued, in prejudice and delusion. Foreigners placed their money in our funds for their own advantage, from the superior security and profit which they afforded. There was no reason why they should not pay for this. They were generally aliens; and though this country owed them justice, they were entitled to no favour from it.Mr. Bankes
 thought, that good policy was in favour of the exemption, as the advantage we derived from foreign property, as it stood at present, was greater than any we could have from the tax imposed on all that would then remain.Mr. Windham
 said, that he had attended much to this subject, and felt much embarrassment how to give his vote. If he voted against the motion at present, he confessed that he should do so from a deference to character, and to what had been done before, contrary to the inclination of his own opinion. He took a review of the arguments on this subject, and observed that he did not see any reason in point of justice that would exempt foreigners more than the people of this country. But there were considerations of policy that appeared to him to render it inexpedient to alter the system at the present moment, though he did not conceive that the imposition of the tax would withdraw any material portion of this property from our funds. But the principal reason that induced him to oppose the measure at the moment, was, that it might produce a very bad effect, by persuading our enemy, that his measures against us had in some degree succeeded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
901900 said, that from the tenor of the debate, he conjectured that the subject would not be brought forward very soon again for discussion; and he was anxious, by more than a silent vote on this occasion, to express his decided opposition to the
901900Mr. Hibbert
897896 observed, that enough had been said as to the discussion of the motion, in what had fallen from the right hon. gent, who brought it forward, and from his right hon. friend who followed him; yet certain topics had been touched upon by other gentlemen in the course of the debate, which rendered it impossible for him to pass them over without observation. Undoubtedly, a difference of opinion might exist as to the propriety of bringing forward the motion; but of this he was convinced, that in the view which the right hon. gent, had taken of the subject, no mischief could possibly arise from the discussion. He did not press any proposition upon his majesty's ministers which required any improper disclosure. It had been brought forward by a right hon. gent., who, on all occasions of difficulty, in every crisis of the country, waving all political hostility, had uniformly come forward in support of the country. The hon. gentlemen opposite were, unquestionably, not pledged by the sentiments expressed by that right hon. gent, to a general support of government. It was not an irrational pledge of that description to which his right hon. friend had adverted, and, if the gentlemen on the other side were not disposed to concur in the feelings and sentiments of that right hon. gent., if they felt not a disposition to assist the Spanish nation on this opening for resistance to the tyranny of France, they certainly were at liberty to pursue what cause they might deem most expedient. But on this, as on every former occasion, they seemed in language to have disowned the right hon. gent, who had from such laudable motives brought forward this question. The house and the country would not fail to contrast the tone of that right hon. gent.'s speech with the chilling language of the hon. gentlemen on the bench with him.—He had to regret the course of the observations pursued by the right hon.
897896Lord Castlereagh
 again explained. He had been misunderstood by his noble friend, if he had supposed him to have stated the principle to that extent. He had intended expressly to say, that we should consider all powers embarked in hostility with France as our allies, engaged in a common object for the attainment of a safe and honourable peace, and not for purposes of perpetual war.Mr. Secretary Canning
 contended that transportation for limited periods failed often of producing that salutary effect on the morals of the convicts which it was expected this mode of punishment would have had. If the punishment were only resorted to in such instances as would justify its continuance for life, it would be cutting off all hope of return to the old scene of their criminality, and probably correct those vicious propensities they had formerly indulged in. He concurred most heartily in remitting, in several instances, the punishment of death, for other less punishments. Though he was decidedly in favour of the system of giving a latitude to the discretionary power of the Judge, in proportioning the severity of the punishment to the nature of the crime.Mr. Burton
880879878 said, that during the last twenty or thirty years it had been his lot to have some experience in the administration of the Criminal Law; he should therefore be wanting in his duty to the public, as well as respect to his learned friend, if he omitted to pay what attention he could to the present bill; and he was desirous to state a few observations upon it before the Speaker left the chair, because they were connected with the principle of the bill. He confessed he was somewhat at a loss whether to look for the principle in the enacting part, or the preamble, because they seemed to be at variance with each other, or at least not co-extensive. The preamble laid down very general abstract positions, which far exceeded the object of the bill, and went to condemn a very large proportion of our criminal laws. Now, in his opinion (without stopping to discuss the truth of the positions), nothing could be more objectionable than to pronounce by statute such a parliamentary condemnation of a great part of our criminal laws, and yet to leave those very laws in full force. To him, consequently, it appeared indispensable to expunge the preamble altogether, and introduce another suited to the limited object of the bill. The principle, as it was to be collected from the enacting part, was to abolish the capital punishment, and to reduce the offence as well as the punishment, down to the standard of simple larceny. Now so far as it took away the punishment of death, he was inclined to approve it; because sentences of death often pronounced in cases where they were scarcely ever fit to be executed, tended much to diminish their effect: but he could by no
880879878Mr. Burton
885 considered reform necessary for the purpose of bringing the law, as it now stood, to the original principles of its institution. He quoted a passage from Judge Blackstone before alluded to, stating that sir H. Spelman had, above a century before, lamented, that although all things had, since the original foundation of our law, on this head, in the time of the Saxon monarchy, extraordinarily increased in price, yet the life of man was daily growing cheaper, by permitting it to be forfeited for the peculation of the same sum for which it had been forfeited in the reign of the Saxons. It should therefore be the business of the present times to reduce the law to its ancient state; and if the same punishments were continued, to equalize them to the crime, or in other words, to the value of the goods thus stolen. He felt it his duty to oppose the clause as too novel; in fact, it was much more so than the bill itself; though the proposition came from an hon. member who was the more averse to the bill from the consideration of its tendency to innovation. Besides, the clause had come into the house under the most inauspicious circumstances, whilst the bill was in a committee, and without any notice. These circumstances could not escape the attention of the house, nor
885Mr. Horner
 contended, that the law could never provide satisfactorily for the great variety of cases, in which it would be to be decided by circumstances, whether the offence should or should not be punished with severity. It was only by the discretion of the judge that cases of this kind could be properly regulated, and therefore he disapproved of the principle of the bill.Mr. Leycester
889888887 rose, and spoke as follows:—"Mr. Speaker; however I may regret that the proposition which I had the honour of giving notice that it was my intention to bring forward this evening, has been postponed until this late hour, and that the attention of the house must be considerably exhausted by the discussion which has just terminated, yet, sir, I still think it right to submit to their consideration, the important subject which was the object of that notice. I cannot conceal that a kind of negociation has been carrying on between my right hon. friend opposite (Mr. Canning) and myself, in the course of which, my right hon. friend expressed his wish that I would put off my motion for this evening, because I the distinguished persons who have lately come over to England to represent to the British government the state and disposition of their native country, are at this very moment partaking of the hospitalities of his mansion. Sir, I allow that this was a strong reason on the part of my right hon. friend for desiring a postponement of this business; for I believe, with all my right hon. friend's public spirit and enthusiasm, that he has no very great inclination to lose a good dinner. But as my right hon. friend has detached a very able gene-
889888887Mr. Sheridan
898 did not feel it necessary to reply. His object was to awaken the country to the opportunity which, if the information from Spain was true, might lead to the rescue of Europe, and to the release of oppressed countries from the grasp of a ruthless conqueror. He had, however, no objection to withdraw his motion, convinced that much benefit must
898Mr. Sheridan
893 was glad that he had
893Mr. Whitbread
892 as his right hon. friend had devoted the greater part of the exordium of his speech upon him, hoped he should be allowed to say a very few words. In the first place, his right hon. friend had mistaken him, when he had represented him as anxious to load ministers with all
892Mr. Whitbread,
895894 though there were many important topics belonging to this question, and arising out of the discussion as far as it had hitherto gone, did not mean to offer any observation upon them. He had then risen only to touch upon one or two particulars, which were more personal than any general reference to the general situation of the country; the one that it might not be misunderstood, and the other to rectify a mistake that might prevail respecting it. And here he must observe the gloomy prospect held up at the onset by the bad specimens of candour, openness, and ingenuousness, with which the right hon. gent, had endeavoured to construe the sentiments expressed by his right hon. friend, as pledging the whole of those who acted with him to a general support of the measures of administration. [A cry of No, from the treasury bench.] If not to their other measures, to those at least which might be connected with the object which his right hon. friend had in view. He had felt it necessary on his part to disclaim being included in any such pledge, and he hoped this construction of the right hon. gent. was not a specimen of the openness which the house was to expect in the progress of this transaction. The points upon which he wished to touch were, first, the advice which had been given by his right hon. friend to ministers, either to do a great deal, or to do nothing in this case. If his right hon. friend meant by doing a great deal, to send a large force to the assistance of Spain, he feared that we should not be able to do that. But it was not thence to be concluded that nothing was to be done. Though we could not assist them in the highest degree, it did not follow that we might not do what would be extremely serviceable to them. The part of his right hon. friend's sentiments in which he completely concurred, was that in which he recommended not to adopt the conduct that had been pursued in former wars since the commencement of the French revolution. It was his decided opinion, that we should not mix little British interests with this important question. He was happy to agree with his right hon. friend on this point; though he could not concur with him as to the alternative, or admit his conclusion, that if a great deal could not be done, nothing was to be done. The other point upon which he wished to touch, related to the
895894Mr. Windham,
minimum opposed the principle of making transportation the minimumMr. Windham
 agreed that the criminal law of the land ought not rashly to be altered. But he contended that the law had not answered the great purpose of preventing crimes, and that its failure ought to be ascribed to its severity, which in many instances prevented persons from prosecuting those guilty of smaller offences. How far it might be proper to modify the severity of the punishment, was another question not now before the house, and which would furnish matter of discussion in the committee.Sir Arthur Piggott
 thought that the less discretion was left in the administration of criminal justice, the better; and agreed with a learned author, who had said, that it was better to have law without equity, than equity without law. He should certainly vote for going into a committee on the bill.Sir Ralph Milbanke
 thought very few of those transported for seven years ever were able to come back at the expiration of their sentence: this, so far from being a national benefit, was a national reflection on our justice.—The bill was then recommitted, and the clause added to it; and the house having resumed, the report was received, and ordered to be taken into further consideration on Wednesday.Sir Charles Bunbury
 was glad he had given his right hon. friend an opportunity of making this satisfactory explanation.Earl Temple
 regretted that the discussion had taken place, and was sorry for the manner in which the question had been discussed. However important the lesson of his noble friend as to recrimination, and the consistency of remaining in a government with which he differed, he must regret that the people of Spain, who looked to this country for support, should find that this question had been made a ground of recrimination by gentlemen on both sides of the house. He hoped that the principle stated by his right hon. friend, of considering any power that should be at war with France as in alliance with us, would not be acted upon to the full extent. He thought that they should not be considered as our allies any longer than whilst they would fight with us to obtain a secure and honourable peace.Earl Temple
909, (knight of Kerry) in what he was about to say, disclaimed all idea of any wish to embarrass government. In at all touching on this subject, he was anxious chiefly for two things; first, that ministers should not suppose, from the paucity of petitions, that the question was not one of very general interest in Ireland, or which they were on that account entitled to undervalue; secondly, he was anxious to prevent the people of Ireland from feeling any thing like distrust in those who were to bring forward these petitions. He felt himself bound to refute the calumnies which had been propagated, alleging that the disturbances in his county had been occasioned by the meeting to consider of the petition in question. It might be sufficient, in answer to this calumny, to state, that these disturbances had existed for years before, and that, after the meeting to consider of the Commutation of Tythes, they had abated rather than increased. The same he could also state as to other petitions. Another stigma attempted to be fixed on the favourers of this measure was, that an improper advantage was sought to be got for the land owners, at the expence of the church. For his part, he disclaimed every idea of the kind. He wished that the church and clergy should have their rights preserved entire; but that the present mode of levying the tythes should be commuted for one more equal and less burthensome. This was no catholic question; it did not partake of a religious feeling; it was supported by the county of Armagh, than which no county in Ireland was more, or rather so completely, protestant. It was a measure wished for by all classes, and even by the protestant clergy. He did not pretend to say that the petitions were so numerous as to entitle him to allege that it was at the moment a measure of necessity; therefore he should not urge referring the petition to a
909Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 availed himself of the opportunity afforded him by the right hon. gent.'s motion, distinctly to state that it was the intention of his majesty's government seriously to consider this business, of the importance of which they were completely convinced. He had already paid considerable attention to it himself, but he regretted to observe, that the further he went into the examination, the more arduous did the task appear, and that the undertaking of applying a remedy to the evil, appeared to be beset with difficulties almost insurmountable. He repeated, however, that every effort should be made to remove them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 considered this to be a question of importance to the well-being of Ireland. Any new mode of levying the tithes did, indeed, present numberless obstacles: he hoped, however, they were not insurmountable, but such as might be overcome to the satisfaction of all parties by time and patience. He reposed all confidence in government that every means would be adopted to accomplish this object.Mr. Ponsonby
910 recommended, in strong terms, the measure of a commutation, which he was convinced would not be attended with any insuperable difficulty, and which he was satisfied would be as acceptable to the clergy as to the laity. He knew several instances in which clergymen had declared to him that they would be willing to abate a sixth of their clerical revenue, if it could be collected with more facility,
910Mr. Herbert
 thanked his right hon. friend for his condescension; stating that he had made the application, from an unwillingness again so suddenly to agitate a question which, so far from tranquillizing the people of Ireland, must have had a contrary effect.Mr. Ponsonby
912 contended, that this measure was not a violation of the usages of parliament for centuries; because the session of parliament, according to parliamentary usage, was considered but as one day. It was only a few years ago that an act was passed to provide that acts of parliament were to have effect from the day of passing; whereas, antecedently, all acts had reference to the first day of
912The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thanked the right hon. gent. for having attended to the suggestion made by him respecting the inexpediency of continuing penalties by this bill, when he had first mentioned the subject. The objections of his right hon. friend would have been unanswerable against the original bill, if it had not been for the proviso introduced by the right hon. gent. for excepting penalties. But, certainly, the introduction of that proviso removed a great part of these objections; and, with this proviso, he thought that the bill might be productive of benefit in certain cases.—The house then went into a committee.Mr. Ponsonby
 was by no means of opinion that this was an easy subject. In that part of England, where for many years he had been engaged in the discharge of his professional duties, the adjustment of tithes had ever been attended with more complication and difficulty than any other matter which had fallen under his notice; and he had just been told by an hon. friend near him, that in the county of Devon a very vigorous attempt which had been made to arrange the commutation of tithes had been abandoned, on the experience of the impossibility of success.Mr. Burton
, while he allowed that the question put by the hon. gent. was a perfectly fair one, declared that really he hardly knew how to answer it. He could only say, that for his own part, nothing had been wanting to enable the committee to lay before the house their report. During the present session almost every hour which was not occupied by his duty in the house had been devoted to his duty above stairs. So far back as before the Easter recess, he had laid before the committee the materials of a report which was complete as far as it related to himself to make it so. Unfortunately, a considerable difference of opinion existed in the committee on the subject of that report, and the discussions upon it had proceeded to a much greater length than could have been expected or foreseen. Those discussions still continued. He could only repeat, that nothing should be wanting on his part to bring them to a speedy termination; that in his opinion the report might be laid oil the table of the house to-morrow; and that he should very much lament that the circumstances which he had mentioned should operate to delay the presentation of it beyond the present session.Mr. Bankes
 stated, that he held in his hand a Petition on the subject from the county of Tipperary, but that after what had fallen from the right hon. gent. he should refrain from presenting it.General Mathew
911 trusted that the people of Ireland would not relax in their petitions to parliament on this subject, fully convinced as he was that whatever might be said by his majesty's government, it was to parliament alone that eventually they must look for redress. He completely differed from the hon. and learned gent. who had just spoken, with respect to the nature of the difficulties by which this subject was surrounded. In his opinion they were difficulties which a little attention might obviate. In cases of inclosure they were obviated at present, and he could not conceive why the principles which applied to inclosures might not be generally diffused over the whole system of the country. While he was on his legs he would say a few words on a subject in which he was more personally concerned. At the close of the last session of parliament, in consequence of the passing of two bills, which as they were now legislative acts, he would not characterise in the terms of abhorrence which justly belonged to them, he had given a solemn notice of his intention early in the present session of parliament, to move for a committee to examine the general state of Ireland. On the meeting of parliament, however, he had been induced by the recommendation of those to whose advice he must ever listen with deference on all subjects, and more especially on every thing which related to Ireland, to postpone his motion until after the discussion of the Catholic Petition; a discussion, the good effects of which on the general feeling of the house and of the country, were very plainly discernible. Since that discussion he had been induced still further to delay his motion by various motives, of which the approaching consideration of the subject immediately before the house, was one of the
911Mr. Sheridan
 objected to the Speaker's leaving the chair. Why did not ministers prevent those inconveniences which they now called upon parliament to remedy? It was in their power to have prevented the evil, and why had they not done so? They knew what laws were about to expire, and why had they not provided in due time? It appeared to be a bill which might be well entitled, 'A bill for the better encouraging the laziness, indolence and neglect of his majesty's ministers.' It was too uniformly assumed that the bill would pass. The act which was to be continued might have expired before the bill for reviving it had passed, and thus the offence proscribed against cease to be criminal, or on the other hand, what was infinitely more serious, that which had ceased to be criminal, might, by a sort of latent revival, become suddenly penal, and thus a man might inadvertently be guilty of a crime, and hanged in a parenthesis. He thought the bill replete with absurdities, and no consideration would incline him to yield to the motion for the Speaker's leaving the chair, unless it was that of having the advantage of his high authority and parliamentary experience in the committee.Mr. Sheridan
 renewed his objections to the principle, and thought it was an admission of the indolence of his majesty's ministers.—The bill then passed through the committee.Mr. Sheridan
908 thanked the hon. gent. for his candid explanation, and disclaimed
908Mr. Whitbread
 rose for the purpose of putting a question to an hon. gent. in his eye, the answer to which appeared to him necessary for the satisfaction of the public. As the session was drawing to a close, it was desirable to ascertain, whether or not the house and the country were to expect a report from the committee, at the head of which that hon. gent. so worthily presided. Rumours were afloat, that a Report of a very important nature had been decided upon in the committee. He was sure that the hon. gent. would not take it ill to be thus questioned on the subject.Mr. Whitbread
 was anxious to know whether or not his majesty's government intended to take into their consideration the commutation of tithes in England as well as in Ireland. He deprecated any interference on this point in the one country which did not extend to the other.Sir G. Hill
 expressed his satisfaction at the sentiments which the house had just heard from the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Parnell
 moved the second reading of the Copy-right bill.Mr. Villiers
 thought that time should be allowed for the due consideration of a subject, in which the interests of the most meritorious, although, perhaps, not the most opulent, class of the community, were so seriously concerned.Mr. Abercromby
919 saw no reason for further delay, as sufficient time would yet be
919Mr. Villiers
920l expressed his astonishment that the hon. baronet could expect that a sum of 50,000920lMr. Rose
927926925924923 on his legs, stating that although convinced of the culpability of marquis Wellesley, he did not impute to him corrupt motives or personal feelings. He had acted in a manner which he conceived to be for the advantage of the East India company and the country: much was he mistaken in so conceiving! But the question was not upon the motives by which the noble marquis was actuated, but whether what he did was not prompted by a false ambition for the aggrandizement of his country; and whether that ambition was not gratified by the vio-
927926925924923Sir Samuel Romilly
934933932931930929928 observed, that from the manner in which this question was discussed, it might be supposed that it was only in its commencement; but he would ask gentlemen whether they could so soon forget that the house had already come to a grave decision upon it? The house had resolved, by a great, majority, that there was no ground whatever for the most material part of the charges relative to the Carnatic question, and negatived the motions containing such charges. The house was then in the singular situation of being called on to give redress in a transaction, of which
934933932931930929928Lord Castlereagh
 supported the motion.Mr. S. Lushington
 felt extreme uneasiness in giving a vote on so personal a subject, but with all his esteem for the private character of marquis Wellesley, and looking only to his politics as a public officer in India, he must give his vote against the Resolution.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
940939 supported the Resolution. The proposition of the noble lord, that this was held to be a grave question by the house, might well be doubted, if they were to judge from the manner in which they had decided upon the evidence adduced in support of the charges against the noble marquis. Upon what principle it was that the house intended to act in its decision upon this subject, he was at some, loss to conjecture. Although it might be argued in favour of the noble marquis, that he was not actuated by motives of pecuniary aggrandizement, yet there were a thousand other bad passions which might actuate a minister, equally as mischievous and destructive to the interests of a nation, as those connected with the most sordid motives. Inordinate ambition must on all hands be admitted, in a moral point of view, to be the most pernicious of all the passions that actuated the human mind. That such was the motive of the noble marquis in his administration, must depend upon what degree of credit the house would attach to the evidence of the papers on the table. In his opinion, formed upon the consideration he had given to those documents, the accusations were unanswerable. Here the learned gent, combated the arguments used to justify the policy adopted by this country towards the native powers of India. Nothing was more unjust and unprincipled, nothing was
940939Dr. Laurence
947946 addressed the Speaker thus: Sir; the house is called upon to determine on the noble lord's motives: there is no human tribunal competent to decide on them. The merits of the noble lord must be tried by his actions: if you try him by the fundamental Resolutions of this house, or by the laws of his country, shew me the resolution or the law which he has not violated. If you try him by the opinions of the Directors, there is scarcely an act of his government which they have not condemned, and given such reasons for their opinions, as were unanswerable, and therefore they were suppressed: if you try the noble lord by the effects of his government, let us look at the results: at home, irretrievable ruin; look to India, you find there a territorial revenue of fifteen millions, falling short of the expences of its establishments upwards of two millions annually, loaded with a debt of thirty-two millions, encreasing daily; the native powers of India disaffected; their minds alarmed with jealous apprehensions of our ambitious encroachments; disgusted with our humiliating control; disgusted with the disgraceful subor-
947946Mr. Howorth
 contended, that this was a most extraordinary discussion, and made on the opposite side a question of party rather than of principle.Mr. Fuller
938937936935 felt, that after the personal allusions so frequently made to him, he should not act respectfully towards the noble lord, if he continued silent on the present occasion. The noble lord concluded a speech, filled with the strangest and most monstrous doctrines he had ever heard, with a solemn appeal to the justice of the house, calling upon it not to establish so bad a moral as that of exposing the delinquency of public servants, for fear their conduct should be compared with the enormities of our enemies. It was with reluctance be entered on any of the enormities committed in India. In making such a declaration, the noble lord was not aware of the libel which he pronounced on an hon. friend of his, who was lately chief justice in India. Here Mr. Sheridan quoted a speech delivered at the time of Mr. Hastings's impeachment, by Mr. (now sir John) Anstruther, in which that gent. dwelt on the enormities practised in India, and insisted on the necessity of investigation and punishment. But now the house was to understand, from the speech of the noble lord, that no governor in India, let his crimes be ever so great, was to have his conduct at all inquired into. He maintained, that the best way to hold out to the world that we practised no enormities, was to punish those who committed any. The noble marquis, whose conduct was now the subject of discussion, had lately made an observation, that the attack upon Copenhagen, and the seizure of the Danish fleet, was an event at which Englishmen ought to rejoice, because it would grieve Buonaparte. It was unwise in the noble marquis to make such a declaration; because he believed it to be entirely the reverse of what was the fact. He sincerely believed, tha
938937936935Mr. Sheridan
 then rose, and said, that after what had passed on this and former discussions, it was unnecessary for him to introduce the Resolution which he was now-going to move, with any preface; he should content himself simply with moving the following Resolution: Resolved, "That it is the opinion of this house, that the marquis Wellesley and the earl Powis, in their conduct relative to the Carnatic, appear to have been influenced solely by motives of anxious zeal and solicitude for the permanent security, welfare, and prosperity of the British possessions in India."Mr. Wallace
941 said, he was not disposed to enter into a discussion upon the merits of this question. He was restrained in doing so, not merely from the lateness of the hour, but really from a sort of despondence he entertained that any arguments which could be offered could have any weight with a majority of the house, who seemed, in opposition to reason and evidence, disposed to pass a vote rather of approbation than censure. He could not suffer the subject to pass by without making a few observations upon some of the arguments urged by the noble lord. The principle contended for by the noble lord in support of the policy of the East India company in India, reminded him of the last line of a song, written by Dr. Swift for a highwayman, 'Every man round may rob if he pleases.' In the annals of injustice, and in the annals of romance, what could be more preposterous than this principle? In alluding to the manner in which the evidence upon this subject was forced from Ally Rhezzi, it was impossible to come at the truth by such a mode of examination as that adopted on that occasion. The effect of torture was not to produce truth, but to produce only that which the person inflicting torture wished to be told. The construction put upon this evidence reminded him of a passage in the works of lord Shaftesbury, in reference to torture, that he would produce, out of the words, 'My son Tommy has got the piles,' a very good plot against the house of Hanover. He regretted extremely that the house had not the aid of his learned friend (the solicitor-general) on this side of the motion, who made so great a figure on the trial of Mr. Hastings; but, it would seem, the principle by which we were to be guided, was that the natives of India had no rights, that we had no duties, and that all was to depend upon the decision of our majorities. He firmly believed, that for the enormities committed by the British power in India, in all the enormities under all the successive variations of the French Revolution, and by no means recently under Buonaparte, no parallel was
941Mr. Windham
 vindicated the motives of the hon. admiral, without entering into the examination of his objections.—The Resolution was then put and carried.Mr. Windham
921 said, that his motives for persevering were the same which had actuated him with respect to Greenwich Hospital; namely, to preserve the exclu-
921Sir C. Pole
l opposed the grant; for which, he said, the trustees ought not to have applied to parliament while they had in their hands a sum of 50,000lSir C. Pole
945 said, that he only differed from the right hon. gent, who had made this motion in thinking that it did not go far enough; it was high time that parliament should do that justice to this illustrious character, which the meanest, the most degraded subject of our laws had a right to demand. After submitting the conduct of the noble marquis to the severest scrutiny, during a long course of years, and after deciding, by very great majorities, that he had done nothing wrong, the house was bound to grant him a deliverance, not only to free him from the present charge, but to protect him from ail future attempts on similar grounds. It would become the justice, the honour, the gentleman like feeling of the house to do a great deal more; not only to clear the character of the noble marquis from blame, but also to declare their high opinion of the services he had rendered his country,
945Sir James Hall
 said he had a trifling-amendment to propose, which was to leave out the words after the word 'influenced,' and to insert the following words: 'By a desire to extend the British territories in India, in contempt of all treaties, and in violation of the national character.'Sir Thomas Turton
922, in rising pursuant to his notice, felt it necessary to premise that, whatever might be his individual impression, it was not his intention, in consequence of his deference to the decision of the house, to submit any Resolution directly tending to criminate the character of the noble person, whose measures gave rise to the Resolutions he had to propose. But he considered it necessary, in vindication of the justice of this country, that that house should come to some Resolution respecting the nature and circumstances of the transactions in the Carnatic, and also declaratory of its intention to discountenance such proceedings hereafter. The hon. baronet therefore, reserving himself for that opportunity which would be afforded him by the indulgence of the house in reply, should then content himself with moving his two remaining Resolutions, as follows:922Sir T. Turton
944943942, in reply, answered the charges of mismanagement of the cause, that had been brought against him. It was said, that in opening the question, he had made use of violent language and personal invective. He referred to the annals of parliament, and defied any member to produce an instance where such a cause had ever been introduced with less of either. He had never said, as had been asserted, that no man ever returned from India either honourable or honest. It was only in illustrating the position he laid down, when expressing his surprise that Europeans, who acted with the strictest regard to justice in all their transactions in their own quarter of the globe, should act so differently in India, that he quoted the authority of Mr. Burke, who said, that Europeans were unbaptized in crossing the equinoctial. He had the utmost personal respect for the noble marquis; but what he had ever expressed in that house, and out of it, was a decided disapprobation of the measures he pursued during his administration in India. He could not agree with the noble lord, that such discussions as the present were calculated to produce ill effects; if they were so, however, it could only be from the decision they called forth. The hon. baronet then went at some length into the state of Indian affairs, and contended that there was no truth in what had been said, that the nabobs of the Carnatic had been raised
944943942Sir Thomas Turton
954953952951950949948, pursuant to his notice, rose, he said, to deliver his sentiments, not merely upon the subject of this bill, but on that of the English Local Militia, which he had not an opportunity of attending in its progress, and upon the defensive state of the country. He began, by expressing his regret, that the people did not now seem so feelingly alive to the danger with which they were threatened, in consequence of the accumulated means and determined intentions of the enemy, as they were a very few years since, when that danger was much more distant, and when impediments, numerous and formidable, stood in the way, which had been since removed. The country seemed to repose in a fatal security, as if people imagined, that because there was not a formidable army now encamped at Boulogne, the danger was less imminent, or the purpose of the enemy less certain. But, for his own part, he was convinced, the more time the French emperor took in preparation, the more certain was our danger; because the greater would be his power, and the more
954953952951950949948Mr. Yorke
955 expressed great obligations to his right hon. friend for the manner in which he had stated his opinions; and declared his willingness to give every explanation that his duty would allow him, respecting the measures taken for the defence of the country. He agreed with his right hon. friend, that it would be a great fault in ministers to endeavour to lull the country into a false sense of security. He allowed that the danger was great, although perhaps not immediate. There was certainly danger enough stirring abroad, to make it necessary for the country to consider anxiously of the best means for its defence. If, on the one hand, he would not wish the country to entertain a false idea of its security, on the other hand, he thought it was but fair and right that it should know what had already been done by its government, to promote that security. In the first place, there was a number of regulars and militia, equal to what his right hon. friend had always considered as the greatest exertion that the country could be called upon to make. He had always said, that he had never found fault with the numerical force, or with the quality of those troops; and he had confessed, that it was as large an army as was wanting, or as this country could afford to keep up. As to the deficiency in point of fortification, it would be obvious to his right hon. friend, that no country could at once so completely change its system and character, as, from a naked country, to become a strongly-fortified one. When it was considered how very low the establishment of the Ordnance was at the beginning of the late war, it was astonishing that it should have started forth from almost nothing to its present most respectable stale. There was no service which required more time to bring to a state of perfection. Engineers were not to be made in a day, or by an act of parliament. As to the defence of the coast, there had been considerable exertions, in this respect. Dover, Chatham, and the whole course of the Medway, were placed in a very strong state of defence. He believed the whole line of coast from Portsmouth to the Thames might be considered in a very perfect state of defence, and much more strongly fortified than any part of the enemy's coast. The enemy were, indeed,
955Lord Castlereagh
, of Kerry, recommended to the consideration of the noble lord the propriety of an interchange of the militias of the two countries. Such a measure would come with peculiar propriety from that noble lord, to whom Ireland had already contracted such a debt of gratitude, by his effecting the grand object of an union. Whatever might be the ultimate determination of government on the grand subject of internal defence, by fortification, it would be well worth the attention of the noble lord to consider of the most effectual means of securing the country in the time of danger. Much had been done, and yet much remained, particularly in Ireland. He had however little doubt, that under the superintendance of the noble lord nothing would be left unattempted which could prove serviceable to the public security, or honourable to the exertions of himself and his colleagues.—The bill was then read a third time, and passed.Mr. Herbert
 supported the bill, and was happy to find that the economy and guardianship of the Church had fallen into such good hands. He lamented the spirit of opposition which had so uniformly displayed itself on the other side of the house, to a measure calculated to secure the dearest interests of the Church and the comfort of all descriptions of the clergy.Mr. Hawkins Browne
 objected to the bill, that it tended to destroy the principle upon which not only ecclesiastical but property in general was founded. He was of opinion, there was no necessity for legislative interference on this subject, and that it would be better to leave the appointment of curates salaries to the diocesan. He considered it to be a great defect in the bill, that it did not apply to lay impropriators.Dr. Laurence
 thought the bill could be brought into operation only by the negligence of the rector; a supposition on which he did not think it dignified to act.Mr. Tierney
957 repeated the arguments so often urged by the opposers of this measure. He considered it extremely dangerous to the interests of the Church, by granting such considerable power to the bishops, which would not fail to produce contention amongst the whole body of the clergy. The bill, moreover, was altogether inefficient to its purpose, as it was at best but a partial remedy to the great evil of non-residence, and finally he objected
957Mr. Barham
 supported the bill as tending to cause the parochial duties to be performed by persons whose indigence would not disgrace their profession.Mr. Stephens
958 stated, as a matter of complaint, that the bill was intended to extend to Ireland. This was contrary to the understanding which prevailed when it was referred to a committee. It was with him a very great objection to the bill that it gave a discretionary power to the bishop. The instances were so few in which the principle of the bill could be made to apply, that they were not worth legislative interference.—The house then divided on the question, that the bill be now read a third time: Ayes 73; Noes 20; Majority, 53.—While strangers were excluded, lord Porchester tendered a Clause, by way of rider, upon which another di-
958Mr. Whitbread
 followed on the same side: he said the bill was not content to let the Church remain 'militant here on earth,' but it wished to render it a Church 'litigant' also.Mr. Windham
 gave notice of a motion for the next session, probably when the Mutiny act should be before the house, the object of which would be the protection of soldiers who had entered for limited service, in consequence of the regulations of the year before last. His proposition would be to prevent such soldiers from consenting to extend their service for life, until the expiration of the engagement which they had already contracted.Mr. Windham
956 considered, that the danger which this country was exposed to was greater than all the plans of the noble lord, even with the addition of the proposed system of fortification, would be able to meet. The question which remained between him and the noble lord, was, whether one or 200,000 men, enrolled under the Training act, and liable to be called upon in case of actual invasion, to recruit the army, was, or was not, a more effectual means for the defence of the country than the establishment of this Local Militia? He was sorry to find that ministers had not yet made up their minds upon the subject of fortifications for the internal defence of the country; but as to those works, which were projected by lord Chatham, the noble lord did justice to the late administration, in saying that they were bound in duty not to adopt such a system without the fullest consideration. There was scarcely any subject on which there was a greater contrariety of opinion; and the opinion of the general officers who were to command in the field, was of at least as much consequence as that of the engineers who were to execute the works. He complained of the noble lord, however, for weakening the military system that was handed down to him by the late administration. He had found the system of recruiting so productive and exuberant, that he doubtless
956Mr. Windham
 dreaded the terrific influence the present bill must necessarily give the superiors of the Church over their inferiors, and the operation of this influence, through the medium of the minor clergy, upon the public mind at large.Lord Milton
 replied, that the Distillation bill was not the only measure calculated to relieve the West India merchant. The lowering of the duties on coffee, and the increase of the duties an brandy, would have a similar tendency. It was not in the contemplation of his majesty's ministers to propose any other measure on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then gave notice of a motion on Thursday, respecting the state of he West India commerce.Mr. Barham
 enquired, whether it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to found, on the report of the committee on the state of the West India trade, any measure except that of the distillation from sugar that had been already before the house.Mr. Eden
 said, that formerly a bill had been brought in for making the stealing of any species of fruit a felony; and although it was acknowledged by all, that that property was much exposed and required protection, yet the article was so tempting and the offence so easy of commission that boys might be induced to commit it, that the bill was rejected. He thought it highly necessary that the oyster-beds should be marked out so as to prevent persons totally ignorant of the law from committing the offence of taking oysters from thence. A captain of a ship, newly arrived from a distant climate, might innocently enough send out his boat, with men, to take oysters wherever they could get them. Was it just or reasonable that such persons should be deemed guilty of felony? He should wish to see some provision introduced, so as particularly to mark cut these beds to the public.Mr. C. Wynne
995 thought it extremely important to declare what the law was upon the subject. The punishment proposed in
995Mr. Villiers
 said, if he consented to this bill, he was consenting to innocent persons being punished as felons. A captain might return from the East Indies, and might choose to regale himself with oysters, and he could see no circumstance that could induce a jury to acquit any person who had committed the offence, even in the slightest degree. He had, however, no doubt there should be a law making this offence more penal than it at present seemed to be, although he certainly thought the oyster-beds that were private property ought to be particularly marked out.Mr. Spencer Stanhope
 stated, that the object of the bill was merely to declare the law, upon which doubts had on various occasions arisen.Mr. Western
989 should not object to the motion, if the bill was to go into a committee, on an understanding that it was merely for filling up the blanks, in order to afford time to the public and the parties concerned to judge how far it might be desirable for their interest, that the bill should pass. He thought that the time ought to be extended within which the copyright should be preserved to the author. This time, he was of opinion, ought to be 28 years, as also, that no author should be allowed to dispose of his copyright for more than 14 years. As to the
989Mr. C. Wynne
 replied, that the principle of the bill was not new, as the universities were already entitled to copies of all works that shall be published; and it could not be denied, that this circumstance was favourable to learning, as thereby students in the universities would be enabled to consult books which otherwise they would be unable to purchase. Copyrights were at present protected to the extent of 28 years in two different periods. But the consequence was, that in works requiring time to mature them, the author could not derive from them one half of the advantages that were enjoyed by the authors of the lightest productions. The object of the bill was to remedy this evil.Mr. Villiers
 concurred with his hon. and learned friend, in requesting the hon. mover not to press the bill at this late period of the session, because many of the booksellers of Scotland, and some of those of Ireland, whose interests would be materially affected by the bill, had not any knowledge of its provisions.Mr. Abercromby
990 proposed that the bill be recommitted, and an instruction be given to the committee to divide the bill, in order that the part which provides for the protection of the authors might be passed now, and the other might lie over for consideration, though he did not think there was much weight in the objections made to that part which required that a copy of every new publication should be supplied to all libraries open to the public. This would not be a hardship to authors, because this was what was required of them by the 8th of Anne, in return for the advantage they derived from the copy-
990The Attorney General
 after stating his several objections to the bill, moved that the further consideration of the report be postponed until this day three months.Mr. C. Wynne,
 agreed in the proposition of the attorney general. He thought that the present criterion of the duration of the author's copyright was a very fallacious one; namely, the life of the author; and required much consideration. But as to the other part of the bill, which required the delivery of a copy of each work to be published, to every library open to the public, it was only to carry into effect the spirit of the act of the 8th of Anne. He therefore thought that the bill ought to be separated, in order that this latter part should be passed, whilst the more delicate and difficult part should be suffered to lie over till next session.Lord H. Petty
 regretted that it was now proposed to pass that part of the measure which was the most objectionable, or rather the only objectionable part of it. The system of copyright established in this country, made the public, instead of any individual, the patrons of literature; and this, with a view to independence of sentiment, and just thinking, was an inestimable advantage. It was certainly highly expedient that the libraries of the different Universities should be properly provided with books; but he was astonished that it should be proposed to lay a tax upon authors for that purpose, which the public at large did not bear. There were many works which cost 50 guineas a copy; and was it not monstrous that the authors and publishers should be taxed to the amount of 550 guineas, by being obliged to give away eleven copies? The fact was, that such works, from the expence attending them, were in no danger of being pirated, no person being able to enter into competition with them, or to deprive them of the benefit of copyright therein. It was for the interest of the public that the Universities should be supplied with books; but let that be done at the expence of the public, and not of individual authors. There were other works, however, of great sale and merit, though cheap, to which the contribution of eleven copies would be easy; but he should certainly propose, that expensive works, where the publisher was not anxious about their copyright, should be exempted from this contribution.Sir S. Romilly
 said, he had no objection to a clause making such a distinction.The Attorney General
 saw no reason for delaying any part of the bill, and contended that the bill was only a confirmation of the act of queen Anne, which had not been acted upon of late years, in consequence of a doubt being suggested in point of form, as to the efficacy of the act itself.The Solicitor General
 observed that the bill, as it first stood, embracing both objects, was unobjectionable. But he contended that, if it were to be divided, it would be objectionable in point of precedent, because it would separate the provision for the authors and for the universities, which had been jointly secured in former acts. He was of opinion, however, that the author had, at common law, an unlimited copyright, which was restrained by the 8th of Anne. But it appeared to him that the notoriety which would arise to works from copies being given to the universities, would be an equivalent to the author for the copies he should deliver to such institutions.Mr. Stephens
 stated that it was with extreme reluctance he consented to the separation of the bill; but, as he could not put his opinion in opposition to the authority upon which that proposition was made, he felt inclined to accede to it; at the same time, he gave notice that, at an early period of next session, he should move for leave to bring in a bill similar to that which was now to be divided.—The bill was then ordered to be recommitted; and an instruction having been voted to the committee for dividing the bill, the house resolved into the committee.Mr. Villiers
992 stated his objections to the further progress of this bill at this late period of the session; and therefore moved that the chairman do now leave the chair.992Mr. W. Smith
 contended, that the measure would not at all affect the booksellers or publishers, because it was to apply only to future publications, and those persons would in their bargains with the authors indemnify themselves for any number of copies which they might be required under this act to deliver into the universities and other public institutions.Mr. Morris
 contended that the public curiosity would be more earnest by abridging the period of copyright; he proposed to limit it to 20 years, instead of 28.Mr. Abercromby
 insisted, that the term of 28 years was not too much for a just copyright. He cited the cases of Dr. Adam Smith's works, and Dr. Johnson's dictionary, to prove that most valuable works were not properly estimated till they had gone through many editions, and had been long before the public. He therefore thought an extended term of copyright was desirable.Mr. Morris
 thought the present period of the session too late for the agitation of this subject. He thought eleven copies too many to require, and that when no complaint was made on the part of authors, of booksellers, or the public, it was unnecessary to alter the law as it stood.Sir A. Piggott
 defended the proposition of the attorney general, which was agreed to.Mr. Leycester
993 proposed to render the supply of copies to the Universities obligatory only when called for. On explanation this difficulty was removed.993Mr. C. Wynne
 opposed the bill. In the committee he had intended to propose, in lieu of the punishment of transportation for seven years, imprisonment for two; but the bill had passed through the committee, very unexpectedly to him, at an early hour this afternoon. His chief objection to the bill was, that the house was not sufficiently acquainted with the nature of the property which it was intended to secure. He deprecated the enactment of a new penal law, without having previously ascertained the precise extent of the crime, or without a complete conviction that it might not be committed in ignorance rather than with a malevolent design. He dwelt with considerable force on the dreadful depravation of mind to which the persons transported to Botany Bay were subjected, and contended, that it was of such a nature as to call loudly for the interference of the legislature.Sir S. Romilly
 defended the bill, as indispensable to the protection of private property. It was not the enactment of a new penal statute. It was already, in his opinion, a felony at common law; but from an inadvertency in wording the act, the protection of this property was not so complete as it was desirable it should be. All that the bill before the house professed, was to restore the common law. With respect to the punishment, it was not greater than what was annexed to similar offences,The Solicitor General
 explained the nature of the oyster-beds, and enlarged upon the various depredations that had taken place upon them. The people to whom they belonged were in general poor, and lived, as it were, from hand to mouth. It was, therefore, the mere necessary that their property should be protected, in the same manner as any other property equally exposed, such as bleach-fields, orchards, &c. This was not a matter of small amount; and some means ought to be taken to enable them to gain their livelihood by carrying on their trade. He approved of this bill, as affording that necessary protection.Mr. Magens
 could see no objection against restoring the existing law, and explaining what it really was. The only difficulty was, to ascertain whether or not it was private property? He thought there ought to be words in the act descriptive of the property, and that it ought to be marked out with proper buoys.—The report was then agreed to, and the bill ordered to be read a third time to-morrow.Mr. Burton
 said, he did not apprehend that this bill went to make any alteration in the description of the property or place where it lay, other than the former bill contained. It was evidently a property well worthy of protection. Doubts having existed whether the law at present deemed the offence of stealing these oysters a felony or a misdemeanor, it was therefore necessary to explain the law. Such was the object of this bill. It had always been deemed necessary to punish those offences that could be committed with great facility, with more severity than those of a contrary description. For instance, the crime of sheep-stealing was punished, upon all occasions, with death. Upon the same principle, oyster-beds well deserved protection, as being private property collected together with great labour.Mr. Sturges Bourne
 thought, that if the law already declared this offence to be felony by the common law, there was no occasion for passing this bill. It was certainly important that the beds should be particularly marked out.Sir A. Piggott
994 observed, that undoubtedly the oyster-beds were a species of property &s deserving of protection as any other. His only objection to the bill was that it
994Sir W. Curtis
 supported the measure, as he thought it was necessary to protect that species of property, by the severity of the punishment.Sir W. Elford
1007l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.,d.s.l.,1006s.d.s.d.,s.1005s.d.s.l.l.,s.s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.1004d.s.l.l.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.d.,s.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.d.s.d.s.d.s.1003d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s. pursuant to his notice, proceeded to call the attention of the house to the subject of Army Clothing. The object of his motion he would frankly state at the outset to be, to save an useless expenditure of the public money, by substituting public contract in the place of private, though, as he should afterwards prove, the system of private contract had received such avowed encouragement from the illustrious personage at the head of the army, and from his majesty's present Secretary at War. He would, before he sat down, prove to the house that the public money had been extravagantly wasted by this system of private contract. It appeared from a letter, signed 'William Merry,' and dated the 2d of July, 1803, that the government had at that time contracted that the army should be supplied with great-coats at the rate of 161007l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.,d.s.l.,1006s.d.s.d.,s.1005s.d.s.l.l.,s.s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.1004d.s.l.l.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.s.d.,s.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.d.d.s.d.s.d.s.1003d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.Mr. Wardell,
1008d.s. replied to the observations of the hon. gent. Those who were well acquainted with the woollen trade, had informed him that the prices had remained stationary from 1803 to the present time, With respect to the price for great-coats that had been fixed in 1803, namely, 161008d.s.The Secretary at War
l.1014l.l.1013l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.1012l.l.l.l.l.1011 rose to move for a separate bill on that Resolution, instead of allowing it to form a part of the general Appropriation bill. He would stale his reasons for making this proposition, of which he had given due notice, that it might not appear to be a sudden measure. The ordinary course of the house was to put all the grants of the year into the appropriation bill; but, in adopt-
l.1014l.l.1013l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.1012l.l.l.l.l.1011The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that this appeared to him a question wholly independent of the merits of Mr. Palmer's case. Acts of appropriation, he thought, ought not to be loaded with any extraneous votes. He must acknowledge, that he had not investigated the particulars of Mr. Palmer's case, and was therefore unable to form a judgment of its merits. Great difference of opinion had not only prevailed upon the subject of this vote in that house, but out of doors; and it was his opinion, that the other branch of the legislature should not be deprived of the opportunity of unrestrained judgment upon the measure. The hon. gent. then entered into a justification of the grant to the duke of Athol, and concluded with expressing a wish that the business should undergo every proper discussion.Mr. Hawkins Browne
10391038—Sir, there is certainly no necessity for calling on the other house to Interfere in an investigation like the present. This house alone is the best judge of the appeal; here is now no question of interpretation of contract, but a plain question of fact already determined by a decision of this house; but the right hon. gent. in contempt of that grave decision, established by five distinct and large majorities, has made his present motion to the house. The right hon. gent. I think acted right in giving the consent of the crown, if he had intended to support the measure, or at least to have stood neuter; but his conduct has been extremely faulty in giving the house the trouble of debating a question like this, when he was determined that their endeavours should be frustrated in the manner now proposed.— The hon. gent. who spoke last says there are many precedents in support of this motion; now, after a most diligent search for upwards of one hundred years, there are just six produced, and even those have scarcely any connection with this question; yet the honorable gentleman appeals to the number of precedents in support of the motion! The same hon. gent. advises caution in our proceedings, for it would be extremely inconsistent (he says) to compel the lords to grant the arrears, when they have rejected the future remuneration. Now, that they would reject the arrears also, is certainly a non sequitur, for they might think this sum a sufficient reward, and the future grant too much. I do not say it is very probable, but it is certainly very possible.—This certainly is the first time I ever heard the house of commons should pursue a measure contrary to its own resolutions, merely out of compliment to the lords. The method of tacking bills, as it is called, to the Appropriation act, may, certainly, in some instances be mischievous; but if this house
10391038Mr. Ponsonby.
 said that if there was a necessity for more precedents he could certainly produce them. The object of this motion was to give the lords an opportunity of judging, of the merits of Mr. Palmer's Claim. The majority of grants made to individuals were by separate bills, and not by a clause in the Appropriation act. As a proof of this, the right hon. gent. cited the grants to Dr. Smith, Mr. Phillips, and Mr. Stephens. He was extremely sorry that he was again obliged to allude to Mr. Palmer's official conduct, but really, after the perusal of the letters written by Mr. Palmer, and after examining the evidence before them, how the house could have supported Mr. Palmer as it had done, was to him a matter of great surprise.Mr. Rose
 said, the merits of Mr. Palmer's case formed no part of the question before the house. The only question was, in what manner the house should carry its decision into effect? The precedents were not all on one side. There were some for the course proposed by the chancellor of the exchequer, and the house was free to follow the line that should please it. He censured the objection to referring the whole question to the lords, because that house could examine witnesses on oath to the matters of fact. He insisted on the constitutional impropriety of sending the present, business to the lords, otherwise than in a separate bill.Mr. Canning
—123Majority
—123Majority63Against it
63Against it186For the Motion
186For the Motion
—123Majority
—123Majority63Against it
63Against it186For the Motion
186For the Motion denied in his reply, that giving the recommendation of the crown so as to bring a measure under the consideration of the house, implied an obligation to support it in its progress through the house. He also vindicated his conduct in proposing this bill, on the knowledge that the house of lords was examining the agreement with Mr. Palmer. —The house then divided:
—123Majority
—123Majority63Against it
63Against it186For the Motion
186For the Motion
—123Majority
—123Majority63Against it
63Against it186For the Motion
186For the MotionThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
1041—I would not, sir, at this late hour, trespass on the patience of the house, had not the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Rose) reflected on Mr. Palmer's character, in a manner which, so far from being justified by the evidence, is completely refuted. The right hon. gent. has again reverted to his favourite argument of the letters; and from them has attempted to infer that Mr. Palmer did not act with integrity. Now, my lord Walsingham was asked by the committee, whether he had ever any reason to doubt Mr. Palmer's personal integrity? the noble lord's answer was, "No, never in the smallest degree." And my lord Chesterfield, to the same question, gave exactly the same answer; and these were the last persons to be supposed favourable to Mr. Palmer. Is it, then, to be supposed, that if any circumstance had occurred to justify such an assertion, that they would have withheld the publication of it? I think those Letters contain nothing but what is very excusable; for when we consider, that Mr. Palmer had embarked his honour, his reputation, his fortune, and every thing that was dear to him, on this undertaking, and that if it had failed, every thing he had staked must fall with it, we can hardly imagine he would have expressed himself more mildly in a confidential letter of those, who, he had good reason to believe, were using every endeavour in their power, under the veil of office, to thwart his plans, destroy his hopes, and render abortive all his expectations of realizing the great considerations he had ventured on his success. Yet even admitting Mr. Palmer's alleged indiscretion beyond a doubt, the public word is given, and it must be redeemed or forfeited by the conduct of this house. Mr. Palmer's deserts and the equity of his demands have been copiously debated, and have been honourably confirmed and admitted by five very large majorities. They must, therefore, be considered as entirely separate from this night's contest. We are this night to assert or resign a privilege, which has always been considered a peculiar and established right. I do think it a most impolitic step, if we resign one inch of our peculiar liberties: for surely there cannot
1041Sir Francis Burdett.
101810171016 rose and said—Sir; after the indulgence I experienced from the house on the first discussion of this subject, it was not my intention to have obtruded further on their notice; but the many debates which have since occurred, with the motion now made by the right hon. gent. will, I trust, apologize for the observations I presume to offer. I beg leave to remind the house, that this claim was renewed, in the first instance, by a petition, which had induced his maj.'s late administration to consent to the appointment of a committee to examine the evidence upon Mr. Palmer's Agreement with government, taken by a previous committee in the year 1797, and to report their observations; that the late chancellor of the exchequer (lord H. Petty), had proposed the selection of this committee, consisting of the members for counties, principal manufacturing towns, the gentlemen of the long robe and merchants, as being the most competent to decide on the merits of the case, and to make a well grounded, impartial, and every way satisfactory report to the house. The change of administration prevented this appointment at the moment; but, at the meeting of the new parliament, the petition was again received, and the approbation of the present chancellor of the exchequer given for the adoption of the same measure recommended by his predecessor. A committee, thus constituted and appointed, accordingly sat, and after a deliberate investigation of the Evidence laid before them, with the examination of further evidence, made their report. Mr. Palmer, flattering himself that the report of this committee, so selected, could not but be approved, was much surprised and mortified to learn the disapprobation of the chancellor of the exchequer, and from this consideration, in the hope that, during the recess, the right hon. gent. might have the leisure to examine more fully into the merits of the case, Mr. Palmer was advised, and consented to a temporary postponement of his claim.—I am now, sir, to state my own conduct in this affair. On being returned to parliament at the commencement of the present session, I did myself the honour of waiting on the chancellor of the exchequer to learn his sentiments previous to any notice of a motion on the subject. Upon this occasion the right hon. gent. candidly told me, that he should oppose the measure; but on my remonstrating with him on the hardship of Mr. Palmer's
101810171016Major Palmer
1010 thought it signified not what was the dress of soldiers, provided they were well disciplined. The dress alluded to by the hon. gent. was adopted in some light regiments of cavalry, in consequence of several Germans having come over to this country, who belonged to regiments that dressed in that way. Such dresses were considered as well adapted to cavalry employed at outposts. The saddles they used were particularly useful on such services. Several Hussar regiments were equipped in imitation of the German cavalry, by, order of the Commander in Chief; and he did not see that their dress was more ridiculous than the long tails and the monstrous inconvenient cocked hats, formerly worn by cavalry. If the business of providing for the clothing; of the soldiers was taken out of the hands of the colonels of regiments, it would produce no benefit to the army, nor any saving to the public. The soldiers would not then be so well off as at present; because it was the ambition of a colonel, who always had a regard for his regiment, to make the soldiers have as good an appearance as possible: and he generally spent more for the dress of the
1010General Stuart
 denied that the general merits of the case of Mr. Palmer formed the question now before the house. The only question was, how the vote passed by this house, and to be adhered to so far as this house was concerned, should be sent to the lords, whether in the Appropriation Act, or in a separate bill. He maintained that all the circumstances of the case particularly called for a separate bill.Mr. Burton
 defended his right hon. friend the chancellor of the exchequer from the imputations of the hon. baronet, who, if confirmed in the opinions he expressed of his right hon. friend, ought not to have addressed him as he had done. He thought his right hon. friend deficient in firmness and decision in not refusing, in the first instance, the king's consent to Mr. Palmer's application; but when he did give this consent, he had distinctly stated, that he gave it only that the question should be investigated, and at the same time declined any pledge upon the subject. All the cases quoted by his right hon. friend appeared to him to be perfectly in point. He then contended, that the measure should be sent up to the lords in a shape in which that house should have an opportunity of exercising their unfettered discretion and judgment.Mr. G. Johnstone
1036l.l.1035l.l.l.1034l.l.l.l.l.10331032l.10311030—Sir; I congratulate the chancellor of the exchequer on the splendid figure he makes in the estimation of two of his leading supporters. By the one (sir T. Turton) he is described as having exerted all the influence of government
1036l.l.1035l.l.l.1034l.l.l.l.l.10331032l.10311030Mr. Tierney.
1037—Sir, I cannot, I must own, discover any reason why the lords should be debarred the liberty of examining a subject like this, founded on the existence or non-existence of a contract, especially when they have the right of administering oaths to extort truth, at the bar of their house, and especially as there are so many cases produced to show that this is not an unusual mode of proceeding. I have paid
1037Mr. Bankes.
1040 with considerable warmth, declared that the lords had not the least authority over Money bills, and as long-as he had a vote they should never interfere in that or any other established right. The house of commons alone was the proper guardian of the public purse. He was very sorry to see the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes) so captious and fretful, when his own bill was lately thrown out of the other house, and he was more so, when he saw him lend his countenance to a measure like this, entrenching on the dearest privileges of the constitution. The hon. gent. seemed to think that his opinion would have a great effect on the house. It reminded him of a beautiful passage in Shakspeare. His quiddities and cranks mantled like a standing pool,' and again 'I am sir Oracle, when I speak, let no dog bark.' Though he was decidedly of opinion that Mr. Palmer's Claims were founded in justice, he did not think they were at all at stake that night, but that the house should
1040Mr. Fuller,
 concurred with the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread), in ridiculing the dress of some of our regiments, and especially the sudden changes of regimentals, the expence of which had compelled many officers to quit their regiments. Adverting to the scantiness of clothing in some cases, he declared that he had seen instances in which the dress of the soldiers of a regiment had been made so tight, that it had been burst by the sudden contraction occasioned by a shower of rain; and the poor fellows were left with nothing but their shirts to cover a part of their bodies which he would not name. [A laugh.] On the whole, however, he believed that the clothing was conducted on a very equitable principle.—After a few words in explanation, Mr. Wardell withdrew his motions.Mr. Fuller
 congratulated the Church on the vigilance of the two Archbishops, who he conjectured were a few days ago visiting its outposts, as he had discovered them mounted on hussar saddles. [A laugh, and a cry of order!]Mr. Whitbread
1009d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.d.s. could find no answer in the speech of the right hon. gent. to a single one of the statements of his hon. friend. The speech of the right hon. secretary at war had consisted principally of a panegyric on great-coats. That the comforts arising from the use of them should be secured to the soldier, he would be one of the last to dispute; but, on the same principle, great part of the rest of the dress of the army should be abolished. Some of them were dressed in such a manner as to be the ridicule of every person who passed by. Some of the cavalry were seen equipped with immense mulls, caps, or hats, which whether the weather was cold or hot, wet or dry, must be equally insupportable; others had immense things hanging over their arm, under which they seemed ready to faint with fatigue. Whiskers too, it might be supposed, were extremely comfortable! He agreed that if a more comfortable great coat could be furnished to the soldier for 161009d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.Mr. Whitbread
1042 wished that the Speaker was at liberty to enter into the debate and give some opinion as to the accuracy of the proceedings of the chancellor of the exchequer, but the right hon. gent. had prudently availed himself of the silence imposed upon that great authority by his being placed in the chair: he had valiantly marched to the attack of the battery when the great gun was spiked: for as to the precedents he had produced, he did not think they gave the least support to the correctness of the right hon. gent.'s conduct.—The hon. gent. besought every member who heard him not to be cajoled into the idea that it was the intention or wish of the chancellor of the exchequer that the present bill should pass the house of lords. What was his conduct as minister of the crown? He came down to the house and moved the passing of a bill, for a grant which he professed to disapprove. Surely, the right hon. gent. placed himself in a very aukward predicament; for it must be his intention either to cheat the public or to cheat Mr. Palmer. If the grant was an unjust one, he cheated the public; if the grant was right, by the trick resorted to, to defeat it, he would cheat Mr. Palmer. He was very happy to see an hon. and learned gent. who had been so long absent from the house on account of his indisposition, in his place, as he was sure the name of sir Vicary Gibbs would be added to the supporters of Mr. Palmer's Claim, as he had the precedent of his predecessor who had also supported it, who acted without the same favourable occurrence of having the late
1042Mr. Whitbread
 thought every thing the hon. member could wish was now fairly in train, and likely to be accomplished. He defended the treasury from any imputation of blame, but reprobated the idea of open-contracts, as tending to raise the price of commodities to government.Mr. Huskisson
1022102110201019—Though I cannot, sir, forbear to give my testimony of approbation, in common, I am persuaded, with that of every other gentleman, to the manner in which the hon. member who has just sat down has argued and conducted this business in every part of its progress, and not less so upon the present than on every preceding occasion, yet I must contend that his endeavours ought now to be considered as wholly superfluous, so far as relate either to the merits of the case, or to any interest merely his own; and that the house, having come to a formal adjudication upon the subject, has nothing now to consider but the propriety or impropriety of defending its own decision. It is not a question at the present moment whether what the house decided was right, but whether having so decided, it can, as at present circumstanced, alter its decision. All that the right hon. gent. therefore has been labouring with so much effort, is nothing to the purpose. He has been ransacking the Journals, diving into the depths of parliamentary lore, wasting his time and his pains, and wearing out the eyes of his case-hunter, only to tell us, what nobody ever disputed, that parliament has on different occasions proceeded in both ways, sometimes by a separate bill, and sometimes by introducing grants of the sort in question into appropriation acts. We will admit, if the hon. gentleman wishes it, that the option between these two ways was in the first instance completely open to the house: but the question for us at present is, whether this option continues open to us now. The great edifice, therefore, of the hon. gent.'s learning, however curious and costly, has
1022102110201019Mr. Windham.
fiat justitia, ruat cœlum.s.1029102810271026102510241023—Sir, I never rose to submit my observations on any question before the house with greater feelings of concern, or indignation, than I now do on the very extraordinary speech and motion of my right hon. friend. Before I enter on the subject of it I cannot avoid making some observations on the consistency and liberality of the hon. gent. who has just sat down. He prefaced his speech with the acknowledgment 'that he had not been able to investigate the particulars of Mr. Palmer's case, and was therefore unable to form any judgment of its merits,' and yet after this confession, the hon. gent. has had the candour and justice to give a decided opinion on a case, on the particulars of which he has avowed his ignorance. The hon. gent. cannot take it amiss, that I am not inclined to give much weight, or to pay much respect to an opinion so formed. But the hon. member is certainly correct in observing that these merits and claims (on which, however, he has stept out of the way to pass his judgment) cannot affect the vote of to-night, for as the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Windham) has observed, whatever may be the event of the present motion, those claims
fiat justitia, ruat cœlum.s.1029102810271026102510241023Sir Thomas Turton.
10531052105110501049—Sir; the hon. gent, needs no apology for making any observations, or proposing any questions to his majesty's ministers, which to him may seem advisable. I will endeavour, sir, as far as I am able, and with the utmost disposition to frankness on my part, to give to the hon. gent, the satisfaction which he requires. In doing this I will begin with the topics with which he concluded his speech. The hon. gent, expresses great surprise that the armament sent to the assistance of the king of Sweden, has not yet commenced active operations. The answer to this remark, sir, is to be found in the proposition that this armament was sent to the assistance of the king of Sweden. It was sent to co-operate with the forces of an ally; to be subject to the plans of warfare which that ally might direct; if in the interval that has elapsed from the fitting out of the expedition considerable changes have taken place in the posture of affairs, and in the military councils of Sweden, that circumstance would sufficiently account for the inactivity of the British force. If any blame can be imputed to his majesty's government on this head, it must be for the decision which projected the expedition, and for the promptitude with which that decision was
10531052105110501049Mr. Secretary Canning.
 brought up the report of the committee on the Appropriation bill. The amendments were read a first and second time. On the motion, that they be agreed to,Mr. Wharton
 rose to second the motion, and regretted that it should have been made in so thin a house, as the subject was of sufficient importance to entitle it to a fuller attendance.Lord Binning
 regretted that the hon. gent, should, at this stage of the session, have thought proper to bring forward a question of this description. The hon. gent., from his speech, seemed to have brought forward the motion with a view to give himself an opportunity of stating that the measures which had been taken for the relief of the West Indies were not effectual to their object. The right hon. gent. then entered into a statement to shew that the measures adopted would be beneficial to the West India interest, and cautioned them against importuning the house with their case lest they might indispose it towards their relief!Mr. Rose
 and the Chancellor of the Exchequer opposed the motion, on account of the protracted period of the session, and thought the measures already adopted would be sufficient till next session.Mr. Marriot
 in moving that it be read a second time to-morrow, stated it to be his intention to give every support to this bill for carrying it through that house. But if the hon. gent. who was concerned in the measure did not wish that it should proceed further, he should feel that he had done his duty in bringing it in, and the hon. gentleman might, if he thought it right, suffer the order of the day to drop.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
1056 replied to those observations of the hon. gent. which related to the affairs of the East India company. The hon. gent, had asked whether the account between his majesty's government and the East India company had been brought to a final close; and whether the sum that had been already voted was all that it was intended to propose on that subject? Undoubtedly, in his apprehension, as far as related to the account of which the balance was struck, with the exception perhaps of some items, of which only a rough estimate had been given, for want of the necessary documents. But it should be observed, that the account between government and the East India company was an account current, and that if the balance were struck at a particular period, the account still going on, the result must necessarily alter. The hon. gent. supposed that the aids to the company would be sufficient to carry them on till the re-assembling of parliament. The fact was, that at the commencement of the present session, circumstances led him to suppose that the company would require further aid; but the balance due to them from government turning out to be larger than was imagined, and the company's affairs assuming a more favourable aspect, as far as related to their sales at home, he
1056Mr. R. Dundas
 gave notice, that early in the next session of parliament he should take an opportunity of attracting the attention of the house to the destructive consequences of the Orders in Council; and should, therefore, abstain from entering into the course of argument which had been pursued by the gentlemen who had preceded him.Lord H. Petty
 contended, that in the present situation of G. Britain the importation of brandy and foreign spirits into this country, ought to be, by all means, discouraged, as tending to overturn the interests of the corn-growers of this island, and the sugar merchants of the colonies, by the deficiency in the consumption of the article of rum; whilst it was serviceable to the enemy, by encouraging the importation of their commodities, by indirect means, into this country.Mr. Ellis
10601059permanent1058escapes,1057 said, that although neither his eyes nor his ears had been gratified in the present debate, (the thin attend-
10601059permanent1058escapes,1057Mr. G. Hibbert
1062 briefly replied, and contended that he had not undervalued the remedial measures resorted to by this country, for the relief of the West India merchants: he concluded with informing the house, that he should not proceed to a division on the question then before it.—
1062Mr. Barham
 after enumerating the various measures that had been adopted and recommended for the relief of the West India interest, and commenting upon their value and efficacy, moved, pursuant to his notice, "That the house do resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, to take into consideration the second and third Reports of the West India committee."Mr. Barham,
10481047104610451044 rose, and expressed him-self to the following effect:—Mr. Speaker; As the session appears hastening to a close, I am desirous of putting to his majesty's ministers some questions, with respect to the various internal and external relations of the empire, which, it appears to me, to be more convenient to state collectively, than to make them the subjects of separate discussions in this house. For this purpose, sir, I should have availed myself of the opportunity which the Vote of Credit afforded me, had I not been apprehensive, from circumstances of which the house must be aware, that such a proceeding at that time would have led to a discussion which, in my opinion, was to be deprecated. But, sir, by the usages of the house of commons, many occasions arise in which questions of the nature to which I have alluded, may be put to his majesty's ministers, and the reception of the report of the Appropriation bill is one. I shall therefore take advantage of it.—Sir, the present session has been a very laborious one, and has extended to very great length: as much business has been done in the course of it, as was, perhaps, ever done in any preceding session of parliament. Not only, sir, has the attendance of members in the house itself, been most assiduous, and at the same time highly creditable to themselves, but also their attendance in the committees assembled upon matters of the deepest national importance. By the committee on the West India trade, a Report has been made, on which a bill was introduced into parliament, of which, as it has now become a law, I shall only say, treat I hope and wish it may conduce to afford the relief to the West India Planters predicted from it; and I trust, sir, that the subsequent Reports which have been presented from the same committee, will meet with a serious investigation, and that every effort will be made to remedy the evils which they point out. The Committee on the Affairs of the East India Company have made a great progress in the execution of the task entrusted to them. I think the public has a right to expect that the Accounts between the government and the East India Company are finally closed; and that the latter can have no further claim on the former. Long as the session of parliament has been, it certainly has been somewhat shortened in consequence of the recommendation of the right hon. gent. opposite to me (Mr. R. Dundas) to the East India Company, not to press
10481047104610451044Mr. Whitbread
10551054 declared that he had asked for no information with respect to the probability or the improbability of peace; he had only called the attention of government to that important subject. The right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, notwithstanding what had been said by the right hon. gent, who had just spoken, had certainly held out the expectation that the enforcement of the orders of council would induce America to see her true interest, and that she would in consequence withdraw her embargo. The fact, however, was otherwise. As to what the right hon. gent, had said of the echo of the debates in that house, having produced an irritation in the American mind, which was subsequently allayed, such a statement was a general reprobation of
10551054Mr. Whitbread
10841083108210811080seriatim,1079107810771076ab eodem ad eundem1075ab eodem ad eundem,107410731072107110701069106810671066106510641063* From the original edition, printed for John Murray, Fleet-street, 1808. rose and addressed the house as follows:*—Mr. Speaker; I rise in a very thin house, not at a very early hour, and at a very late period of the session, to discuss a subject of the greatest consequence to the part of the united kingdom to which it relates.—My intention is to discuss, and not to oppose; and my object is to make some parts relating to this most important subject generally known and attended to by means of discussion in this place.—It is highly necessary that many of the regulations, proposed by this bill, should be well understood, and that others should be suggested for consideration. [At this period an interruption took place, owing to some members leaving the house, when Mr. Adam said, with some eagerness]— Sir, I know how little interesting this subject must be to many gentlemen present; I am not, therefore, surprised at their departure; but I should conceive, late even as it is in the session, and exhausted as the house may be with previous business, it will hardly be thought decent to have it said, that a system of civil judicature, relating to the most important interests of Scotland, and affecting no less than two millions and a half of his majesty's subjects, has been discussed and passed in a house not sufficient, according to its cod-
10841083108210811080seriatim,1079107810771076ab eodem ad eundem1075ab eodem ad eundem,107410731072107110701069106810671066106510641063* From the original edition, printed for John Murray, Fleet-street, 1808.Mr. Adam
 approved of the candour of the right hon. gentleman. He saw no cause of disapprobation which could exist against him for his conduct, notwithstanding all that had been urged against him last night.—The bill was then ordered to be read a second time to-morrow.Mr. W. Smith
 stated, that it was not his intention to move the second reading of Mr. Palmer's bill. A communication had been made to him, that it was not the wish of Mr. Palmer that any further step should, at present, be taken on it, therefore, agreeably to what he had said last night, he should not proceed further in the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1098 could not have the smallest objection to the production of the fullest information on the subject of the inquiry to which the noble lord had alluded. The noble lord could not be unaware that a parliamentary commission had been appointed, to whom the whole of Mr. Davison's accounts had, in consequence, been referred. That commission had from time to time made Reports upon the subject of the inquiry intrusted to them, to the Treasury, which regularly submitted these Reports to the law advisers of the crown for their opinion, whether a civil or criminal process should be founded thereon. It appeared upon some of them that the inquiries were not sufficient; upon others, on the contrary, it was considered that a legal demand existed on the part of the nation, to be recovered by civil process; and in every such case, application had been made to
1098The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1105 was at a loss to know what the right hon. gent. meant. He was not aware that the house could interfere with the disposal of the property of the crown, where an improvement was intended. When the right hon. gent. should give notice of this motion, then the house could judge of the question in some tangible shape. It could scarcely be the right hon. gent.'s opinion, that no
1105The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1106 had not heard of any of the plans alluded to by the hon. gent, who had just sat down, and confident he was, that they would not be countenanced in any quarter. The access to the parks was so essential to the health and recreation of the people of this great metropolis, that any beginning of encroachment ought to be resisted. If it was intended only to erect buildings on the site of the riding house, he should say that the riding house
1106Sir F. Burden
 had stated only, that he knew of no plan for extending buildings so as to contract the park. Application, however, had been made to the treasury to have superior buildings, in the place of very inferior ones now existing.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1097 rose to put a question to the
1097Lord A. Hamilton
, understanding that no objection would be made to his motion, after paying a high tribute to the science and services of the late Mr. Andrew Dalrymple, who had been offered a pension equal to his salary as Hydrographer to the Admiralty if he would resign, and on his refusal had been peremptorily dismissed his office, which circumstance had accelerated his death, moved for a copy of a Letter of the lords of the admiralty dismissing the late Mr. Andrew Dalrymple from his office of Hydrographer to the Admiralty.Lord H. Petty
 said, he should be glad to know precisely what parts were intended to be printed, and what to be left out. It seemed now doubly necessary from the account they had just heard of the difference of opinion in the Committee, that the house should have as much as possible before them, in order to be able to form a judgment for themselves.Mr. Horner
 replied, that whatever difference of opinion there might have been on other subjects, there had been none as to the selection of the particular documents necessary to be printed along with the report. Every information would be before the house, and a catalogue of the papers not required to be printed, but which were laid on the table, would be added, so that those papers might at any time be referred to for particulars.Mr. Bankes
1099 presented from the bar the Third Report of the Committee of Finance. On the report having been read, the hon. gent. rose to move that it do lie on the table, but before he should make that proposition, he felt it necessary to address an observation or two to the house. He hoped that gentlemen would not be alarmed at the enormous mass of papers which he had brought up, because under the instructions which had been given to the committee, he had conceived it necessary to communicate all the returns upon which the Report of the committee was founded. Only a small part, however, of the papers before the house, would be necessary to be printed, and he trusted, from the part he had taken in the discussions respecting the printing of papers, that the house would give him credit for not wishing to have more printed I than were absolutely necessary to put the house in possession of the subject. It was only a small part therefore of the papers which he had brought that he should move to be printed. On presenting a Report, which had occupied so large a portion of the attention of the committee, he was afraid that the house might suppose that much time had been lost in preparing it. But he could say, as well for himself, as on the part of the other members of the committee, that they had not been wanting in their duty. The delay, and that of some months, in presenting the Report, had arisen from the contrariety of opinion which had taken place in the committee, owing perhaps to its being composed of too numerous an assemblage of members. If it should be the pleasure of the house, that the committee should be renewed in another session, it would be a question.
1099Mr. Bankes
1102 was anxious that this subject should be fully explained to the house. He had risen to support the statement that had been made by the chairman of tile committee, and to prevent any improper impression being made by the statement of the learned gentleman who had just sat down. That learned gentleman seemed to think, that the difference between the passages of the original report and the alterations made in it, was wholly unimportant, whereas, for his own part, he thought it by no means trifling or unimportant. As the report stood a week ago, it expressed a wish to retain those sinecure places which were necessary to the dignity of the crown, and went on to state, that the remainder, with few exceptions, ought to be abolished. In this passage, the committee expressed a decided opinion upon the principle of sinecures. It recognized the principle of the former finance committee in reserving these sinecures, which would be the remuneration of great public services, and for which, if not reserved, a provision should be substi-
1102Mr. H. Thornton
11011100 coincided with the hon. gentleman in every thing he had asserted, with respect to the assiduity with which the hon. gentleman and the other mem-
11011100Mr. Leycester
 observed, that if the plan were to stop there it might not be so objectionable. But he assured the house he had heard, in a casual conversation concerning improvement, of a plan for surrounding the parks with a belt of houses, the profits of which would defray the expence of building such a palace as would be suitable for a king of this country to reside in.Mr. Biddulph
1103 had no objection whatever to the production of this and every other document connected with the subject, and went along with the noble lord in bearing testimony to the merits and services of the gentleman whose removal was the object of the noble lord's motion. He could-
1103Mr. R. Ward
 corroborated what had fallen from his right hon. friend, and asserted that a correspondence had taken place between several of the nobility and Mr. Fordyce, on the subject of these buildings, and that Mr. Fordyce had been so accommodating, as to recommend to the crown, that they should be allowed to build the houses they proposed. If the precedent of the encroachment were once established, the public would, in the end, be excluded from the park. This was a fit object of the attention of that house. Besides, the recommendation might be a matter of favouritism, of which that house should be jealous. He therefore gave notice, that he should move for copies of the correspondence he had alluded to.Mr. Creevey
 observed, that there could not be any danger of favouritism, or of a beneficial grant to the individual now, in any case of a demise from the crown. The surveyor general of crown lands, was by law obliged to report the value of the land to be demised, estimated by professional surveyors, upon oath, to the treasury. As to the reports which had gone abroad, they were idle rumours, for which there was no foundation. He certainly had heard some which had not even the colour of probability, such as that lord Ponsonby and other noble lords were amongst the individuals who were to have the privilege of erecting these buildings.Mr. Huskisson
 presented an account of the Land Revenues of the crown; on the motion that it do lie on the table,Mr. Huskisson
, though not sure that the subject to which he was about to allude was within the cognizance of the house, yet considered it well worth its attention. He had heard lately that it was in contemplation to extend the buildings (which had already been carried too far), still further into Hyde park. Any contraction of that scene of public exercise and recreation would be extremely injurious to the health and comforts of the inhabitants of this great metropolis; and though he was not prepared to make any motion upon this subject, as a representative, of the people, he was entitled to bring a matter of so much importance to their health and interests under the consideration of parliament.Mr. Windham
 did not impute blame to any set of men, but still contended, that this was an interesting subject, and deserving the attention of the house.Mr. Windham
1116 rose, and shortly observed, that the object of his motion was, for the purpose of bringing regularly before the discussion of the house in the course of the next session, a matter which he conceived to be of the first importance, and
1116Sir F. Burdett
 rose to give the, motion his decided negative, and he trusted that the house would coincide with him in the vote he should give. He would not enter into much argument upon the subject, as the lion, baronet had not prefaced his motion with many observations; but he would appeal to the house and to the hon. baronet himself, whether any good consequences were likely to result from such a motion, at this particular time? For his part, he was convinced, that it could produce no good, and might produce great evil. On this ground, he would have opposed the motion, even if the return moved for had been a simple paper, which was already in the hands of all the members. Although he had already given his opinion on the subject when it was discussed incidentally, yet he should now repeat, that there was nothing which history made more evident than that a body of men subjected to military discipline, and governed by a particular law, were much more to be depended on in the field than those who were not so disciplined. If this, then, were to be considered as a general truth, he saw no reason why, at the present moment, and with such an enemy as we have now to contend with, that the discipline which had so long subsisted in the British army should now be shaken. It appeared to him that great evil might be produced from this question being agitated among the common soldiers. He was perfectly aware of the competence of the house to discuss this or any other subject which should be brought before them relative to the army, as it was competent to them to address his majesty on all such subjects; but, at the same time, it would be for the discretion of the house, and also for the discretion of the individual member who brought forward such motions, to consider whether they could be productive of any good, and whether, on the other hand, they were not likely to produce much mischief.—No member rising to speak,The Secretary at War
11191118 rose, in reply to what had fallen from the right hon. the Secretary at War. He was extremely surprised at the manner in which his motion had been received by that right hon. gentleman, as it appeared to him, that a matter of greater importance, or more peculiarly important in the present times, could not possibly be submitted to the consideration of the house. He thought they would do ill by the country, and that they would do ill by its gallant army, if they were to leave out of their consideration entirely the sufferings to which that army, and the individuals that composed it, were daily exposed. If this consideration was at all times due to the army, it was more, peculiarly due to it at a time when it comprised so considerable a portion of our population, and when, by the institution of the Local Militia, every man in England was affected by the military code of the country.—He did not think that considerations of that nature should be answered by old trite observations, of military discipline being a necessary thing, and of disciplined troops being better than those that were undisciplined. Such general observations were not of weight enough to be entitled to put a stop to all discussion upon the subject. As to the objection of the great difficulty in obtaining such returns, he could not but conceive that those returns could be easily procured from every regiment in the service. As to the great danger that there was supposed to be in parliament meddling at all with the discipline of the army, he was enabled, in support of his own opinion, to cite the authority of Mr. Justice Blackstone, who in speaking of the Mutiny Act, said, "That the Mutiny Act was an act hastily penned, and he wished that it should be, some time or another, submitted to the deliberate consideration of parliament." It was not, therefore, extraordinary that he should view the subject in the same light that Blackstone viewed it, or that he should think that this was a lime peculiarly proper for such a consideration. When the whole population of the country were becoming military, and perhaps ought to become military, at such a time it was peculiarly necessary that the military code should be made as congenial to the feelings of the nation as was consistent with the proper ends of military discipline. He could not see what objection there was to producing information upon the subject, as the house would have afterwards the power
11191118Sir Francis Burdett
1120 was surprised at the hon. baronet having conceived that this was a proper period to bring forward such a motion. He hardly knew how to argue against the hon. baronet, as their views upon almost every subject were so totally different, that there was scarcely a point of coincidence. He wondered, however, that if the hon. baronet felt the subject of so great importance, he should have slept over it until the session was just upon the close. If the returns could be made, and it appeared that punishments were frequent, that would not support the argument of the hon. baronet, as it would be a greater proof of the existence of offence than of the impropriety of the punishment. The motion of the hon. baronet, connected with the observations he had formerly made, did look like a settled and systematic intention to bring the military code of the country into disrepute. In the French code, to which he appeared to give so great a preference, the officers could, without any trial, inflict the punishment of death, upon any soldier whom he should conceive to have committed an offence that deserved it. When they, had such a power, corporal punishment might not be so necessary. If corporal punishment existed in our army, it was because by the English code no man's life or person could be touched or shaken without the decision of a competent tribunal. The hon. baronet had, however, found an opportunity to insinuate that punishments in the army depended on the caprice, folly, or passion of commanding officers, and to mention the name of an illustrious commander. He must have known, however, that no man could be punished in the army, but by the sentence of a court-martial, the members of which were upon their oaths. The house might therefore judge with what degree of liberality and candour it was that he drew his views, from what he had stated to have taken place in one particular regiment. He must also observe, that the regiments of
1120Lord Castlereagh
1121 supported the motion of the hon. baronet. He agreed entirely in the eulogium which was bestowed by a noble lord on the character of English soldiers; but he thought that very eulogium was an argument in favour of the motion, as it shewed that such men did not deserve to be subjected to more disgraceful or severe punishments, than were those in the other armies of the world. The noble lord, however, had advanced no reason against the motion of the hon. baronet,
1121Lord Folkestone
 was decidedly adverse to the production of such returns. They would be only giving to the house the groans of the sufferers, without giving the evidence upon which they received their sentences. Corporal punishment was not peculiar to the army, but might be inflicted by the sentence of the judges for various offences at the common law. A soldier had, in addition to the court-martial that tried him, the advantage of an appeal to the commander in chief, who might order a general court-martial, and he had actually known a case where a soldier had obtained a new trial upon such an appeal, and was acquitted.—The house then divided: For the motion 4; Against it 77.—Majority 73.Mr. Lockhart
 seconded the motion. He censured the plan of curtailing Hyde Park; but if the measure was persevered in, he wished the chancellor of the exchequer would include him among those to whom lots were to be given.Mr. Hanbury Tracey
1124 observed, that no ground had been laid for the motion, and that it would ill become the house to interpose between his majesty and the exercise of one of his undoubted rights. It was to be presumed that on this occasion he would act with the same beneficence and conscientious regard to the interests and convenience of his subjects that had marked the whole of his reign. There was no reason to suppose his majesty would make any improper grants. The plan, in fact, had not yet been submitted to him. It was only a few days ago that it was laid before the Treasury. With what propriety, therefore, in this stage of the business, could the hon. member call upon the house to interfere? There was no intention to convert the Park into a town, and for any purposes of sordid gain to turn that which was now used for recreation into streets. Such a project would meet, and deservedly, with general reprobation. But he could not
1124The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that consistently with his duty, and the view he took of the subject, he would give no such assurance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1126 said, that agreeing as he did in every word which fell from his right hon. friend, he would only trouble the house with a few words. It was well known that he was extremely anxious to promote the improvement of the metropolis, and particularly of the city of Westminster; but in all the plans which he had supported and recommended in that view, it was a principle with him not to crib one inch from any of the parks. He could not conceive upon what grounds it was, that the surveyor of the crown lands supposed his majesty would give his concurrence to so ridiculous and unjust a plan, as that in contemplation. The park was already sufficiently encroached upon. Hamilton-place was both an encroachment and a nuisance. He had been to visit it that morning, and such a gibbet-like erection he never saw. It was all angles and projections. There was also that heavy lump, Bathurst House, which he could compare to nothing but a tub of brick. The plan, he understood, was to erect a
1126Mr. Sheridan
 professed his willingness to withdraw his motion upon the assurance suggested by his right hon. friend.Mr. Creevey
1123l rose, in consequence of the notice he had given, for the purpose of bringing before the house the intended encroachments in Hyde Park. It would be unnecessary for him to endeavour to impress upon the house the great advantages which the population of this vast metropolis derived from having access to the three Parks. It was, therefore, a subject of considerable regret to him, to find there was a plan in contemplation for devoting a great part of Hyde Park to private edifices. It was a very ungracious thing in any officer to recommend to his majesty that certain parts of it should be granted out for such purposes. He would not deny that the king had the right of doing so; but when it was considered that within these few years the public had paid no less than 71,0001123lMr. Creevey
 said, that so far from the plan being completely arranged, he had only heard of it about a week ago.Mr. Huskisson
1125 contended, that this was a subject, of all others, fit for the interposition of the house, and that this was precisely the moment when it should interpose. The plan, it appeared, was almost completely arranged, and if the house did not address his majesty now, they would have no other opportunity of doing so. By the time they next met, the houses probably would be half built, or, at least, so far advanced as to render it impossible to discontinue the plan. Against the plan he must enter his protest. He was not quite sure that his majesty possessed the right of disposing of the park in the way proposed. It would be a satisfaction to him to know how the crown and the public stood in that respect, and whether it had not given up the right which it was now intended to assert, in consequence of the payment from the Consolidated Fund. It was idle to suppose the plan would not go on if it were once begun, and that it would be limited to eight houses. These, houses would go on, co-operating with other houses, until it would be no longer a park. Indeed, it could scarcely be called so at present, for it was almost invested with houses. On one side there was Knightsbridge, grown into a considerable town; on another, Kensington. There was also a great town starting up on the northern side. Now, if in addition to these a number of houses should be erected, the power of vegetation would be completely destroyed. The park would no longer be that scene of health and recreation it formerly was. It was a saying of lord Chatham, that the parks were the lungs of London. He could devise no means more effectual for the destruction of these lungs than the proposed plan. The great increase of the metropolis might be attributed to the desire which every man felt to get as it were into the country; to go a little further towards it than his neighbour.
1125Mr. Windham
 did not conceive that such return would enable the house to form a correct judgment on the subject. It appeared to him that the principal thing which was to protect the soldier from capricious punishment, was effected in this country by making a court-martial necessary before punishment could be inflicted. He thought that by the French code, the soldier was more exposed to capricious punishment, as he had not the benefit of a trial. He hoped that the evil would be corrected in a gradual manner; and he thought that it would be best effected by countenancing those officers who kept up the discipline of their regiments without making those punishments often necessary, and by discountenancing those who only preserved the discipline of their regiments by the frequency and severity of corporal punishments. He thought the feelings of the officers, and the fashion of the service, would do more to diminish these punishments, than could safely be done by the legislature.Mr. Windham
 was of opinion, that the full rigour of the military code ought not to be applied to the local militia. But with respect to its application to the regular army he differed widely from the hon. baronet, as he did almost on everything he brought before the house. It was not only by the previous form of a court martial that the arbitrary infliction of punishment was guarded against, but by the inspection of the visiting general officers, who were to see the regimental returns of the courts martial, of the punishments that should have taken place, and of the degree and manner in which those punishments should have been executed; of all which particulars the commander in chief required particular reports to be made to him. The general officers were also instructed to inquire of the men, as they passed the companies, whether they had any grievance to complain of. With all these checks there could be no instance of wanton or capricious punishment. The use of the cane was entirely laid aside in consequence of the denunciation of his majesty's severe displeasure. He thought it necessary to state these facts, to prevent the public mind from receiving a false impression on a matter so important.Sir George Warrender
1122 said, that his principal objection to the motion was, that it might at the present moment do harm, and that it could not do good. If the motion was agreed to at the close of the session, it would hold out hopes and expectations to
1122Earl Temple
l having moved the usual grants to the officers of the house, &c. and among others the sum of 1200lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ex parte1133 regretted that the motion was deferred until a period when those members could not be present who were the best informed upon the subject. Although he should not oppose the motion, he trusted he should not be supposed to acquiesce in the right hon. gent's
ex parte1133The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 defended the character of Dr. Trevor, who was generally esteemed as a man of great humanity and kindness. He had heard the unfortunate Emmett acknowledge this at the scaffold in the warmest terms.Mr. Beresford
 defended the magistrates of the county of Galway, from any share in the imputation attempted to be thrown on the whole country.Colonel Vereker
 said, he had taken some part in the conversation on this subject on a former night. He had since been shewn the correspondence on the subject, and he was satisfied that Mr. Dalrymple had exhibited a degree of contumacy which was probably inconsistent with the performance of his duties to the admiralty. He was of opinion, however, that if the board had exhibited to that respectable gentleman the greatest possible degree of liberality and indulgence, it was nothing but what his long and meritorous services justly entitled him to.Mr. Horner
 rose and said the hon. gent. had quite misunderstood him, he had meant no such insinuation, what he had said was in quite another view.Mr. Horner
 repeated what he had formerly stated. He imputed no blame, to the admiralty board for dismissing Mr. Dalrymple: as he had already said, he should have been better pleased, if they had pursued their indulgence to the utmost degree to which it could be carried, which, in his opinion, they might have done on account of the past and meritorious services of that very eminent and respectable man.Mr. Horner
1134 would only make an observation or two on what had been said on the other side, and particularly by the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, with respect to an investigation having been made into these alleged grievances, by the authority of lord Hardwicke as lord lieutenant of Ireland, the report of which he stated to have been laid before this house and printed in 1805. Mr. Moore said, that being intent on obtaining all possible information, he regularly watched all the documents laid before this house for that purpose; and that having given the subject of these alleged grievances his earnest attention, it was almost impossible that, such an important document as the report in question could have escaped him, had it ever been before the house; as from the description given by the right hon. gent., it went to preclude all further inquiry into the claims of justice, so forcibly stated in the various petitions before
1134Mr. Peter Moore
1132 said he should have felt it to be his duty to address the house at considerable length on this subject, did he not understand that the inquiry which it was his intention to propose, would not meet with any opposition. He should, therefore, abstain from any of those details which if entered into could not fail to disgust the feelings of the house, and might provoke irritation among those who were more immediately the objects of suffering. He was satisfied that an inquiry into the evils complained of would do ministers credit, and he would rather have seen them enter into it voluntarily, than urged on to the investigation. In bringing forward the present question, he declared that he was actuated solely by that feeling which he hoped hitherto had characterized, and should continue to characterize, his parliamentary conduct; a consciousness of the propriety, if not of the necessity, of what he proposed, and an ardent desire to discharge his duty to the public. The right hon. gent. then proceeded to quote the reports of the inspector-genera of prisons in Ireland. He remarked that many of the evils which now existed had been enumerated in the report
1132Mr. Sheridan
1131l took occasion to repeat the objections he had more than once urged to this grant, which was equal to the allowance made to the commissioners of customs and excise. The duty to be performed by these gentlemen was constant, whereas the labour of the chairman of the committees of ways and means ceased with the session of parliament; which it was also his duty to attend, independantly of any emolument. If, therefore, 12001131lMr. Biddulph
1135 again alluded to the discussion which had taken place on a former night as to the causes of the dis-
1135Mr. R. Ward
 thought the public highly indebted to his right hon. friend for the institution of an inquiry, from which, in his opinion, a great deal of good would probably result.Mr. Whitbread
 wished that the right hon. gent. had brought forward his motion when the Irish members were present, convinced as he was (from his own local knowledge) that those members would have declared the futility of the statements that had been made. He examined some of the reports, and detected several misrepresentations that existed in them. He supported the motion, because it could do no harm, and might do much good.Mr. W. Pole
 said, that considering the manner in which he had formerly been alluded to, when a noble lord, not then present, had brought the subject of the removal of Mr. Dalrymple before the house, and the peculiar situation in which he stood respecting that transaction, he trusted he might be permitted to give some explanation of what had passed. He said he owed it to the public, to the admiralty, and to himself, to state the circumstances which had led to Mr. Dalrymple's removal: it would give him extreme pain to be under the necessity of bringing anything before the house or the public that could in any degree tend to create uneasiness to the friends of Mr. Dalrymple, or could at all affect the memory of that respectable gentleman. Mr. Pole said, he understood the hon. gent. to have expressed himself to be satisfied, that under the circumstances of the case, as he found them in the papers which had been prepared, and had been shewn to the hon. gent, by his hon. friend (Mr. Ward), the board of admiralty could not do otherwise than dismiss Mr. Dalrymple. He understood the hon. gent, to say, that the duty the admiralty owed to the public, certainly justified them completely in the step they had taken. He seemed to admit that they had treated Mr. Dalrymple with justice. But Mr. Pole said, he owned it astonished him to hear the hon. gent, insinuate, that more lenity might have been shewn, and that he should have been better pleased if more indulgence and liberality had been shewn him.Mr. W. Pole
11381137 resumed: he said he was extremely glad to find that he had misunderstood the hon. gent. He certainly thought he had meant such an insinuation. He then begged permission of the house to state the circumstances which led to Mr. Dalrymple's removal; that about the month of Nov. last, the first lord of the admiralty, upon ascertaining that his majesty's fleets were not supplied with charts upon any regular and settled principle, and considering that great inconvenience had arisen from the king's ships in many parts of the world being unfurnished with proper charts for their guidance, determined to lay down a system by which in future all his majesty's ships in every part of the world should be supplied with the best charts existing for the station to which they might belong; and in order to effect this most desirable and important object, the first lord of the admiralty had called upon the board to issue their orders to the hydrographer to prepare a proper selection. Mr. Dalrymple, in return to this order, had stated that he was incompetent to make the selection, from not having a local knowledge of many seas, and for a variety of other reasons; and he recommended that in order to carry the first lord's plan into execution, a committee of ten officers should be appointed to select and arrange the charts proper to be issued to the navy. From the moment however that this committee, as recommended by Mr. Dalrymple, was appointed, it became impossible for them to proceed in the performance of their duty. It had fallen to his lot, as it was a part of his duty, to examine into the state of the hydrographer's office; it was impossible to describe the confusion in which he found it; from Mr. Dalrymple's infirmities, it could not be otherwise. He wished at all times, as he always had done, to speak of that venerable and respectable gentleman, with every possible degree of tenderness and attention, with all the consideration due to his talents, to his great acquirements and his eminent services. But it was impossible not to admit, that the state of his office was such, as to prevent all chance of proceeding with the arrangements necessary for the good of the service under his management. The house would perceive the truth of this remark, when he informed them, that Mr. Dalrymple's habits were such, that he seldom or never came to his office before three o'clock, and that the office of the hydrographer closed at
11381137Mr. W. Pole
ll stated, that the Board of Agriculture had been engaged for some time in collecting Reports of all the different parts of the country, which were to be made the ground work of one general report, exhibiting a complete detail of the internal state of agriculture of the kingdom. This, it must be admitted, was a very important object, and one of great public utility. To complete this object, only 1500llSir John Sinclair
1143 said, that upon a recent occasion, when the present subject was brought before the consideration of the house, he had felt it his painful duty to express his disapprobation of the tone and manner in which the hon. gent, had thought fit to comment on certain circumstances, the recapitulation of which could not have been attended with any good consequences; it now, however, gave him considerable pleasure, that the grateful task had devolved to him of expressing his complete coincidence in the feelings manifested by the hon. gent. as to the issue of the great and glorious struggle in which the Spanish people were at present engaged. He differed, however, from the hon. gent, as to the justice of the animadversions in which he had indulged on his
1143Lord Castlereagh
1144, in explanation, denied
1144Lord Castlereagh
 observed, in explanation, that the turn which the noble lord had been pleased to give to what he had said on a late occasion, when the same subject en a former evening was brought before the house, must be imputed solely to a feeling of political animosity. On that occasion, he had disapproved of the motion brought forward by his right hon. friend. In that feeling of disapprobation he had it in his power to plead the authority of the chancellor of the exchequer, though neither of the principal secretaries of state in that house had thought the agitation of the subject at that time would have been attended with any improper consequences.Mr. Whitbread
1142 began by observing, that he had with considerable anxiety waited till the last moment before the present session terminated, in the hope that his majesty's ministers would see the propriety of adopting some mode whereby the sense of that house could be obtained on a subject of such universal interest as that of the present transactions in Spain. He thought that nothing was more to be desired than a distinct expression of the sentiment of that house upon a subject of such importance, and he could not help expressing his surprise that no communication had been made to the house by his majesty's ministers, as it was upon such a communication that the declaration and the sentiments of that house could best be founded. When this subject was submitted to their consideration on a recent occasion by his right hon. friend (Mr. Sheridan), he had felt it to be his duty frankly to state his objections to the impropriety and inexpediency of then agitating it, as he was apprehensive that the discussion at that time might have prematurely committed the whole Spanish nation with France;
1142Mr. Whitbread
11461145 confessed that the sentiments he felt on this great subject were very similar to those of the hon. gent. opposite. He could not avoid expressing his concern that no communication had been made to parliament, in order that a proper opportunity might have been afforded of giving a sort of authoritative publicity to the unanimous feeling of the nation, that all that England could do for Spain and her cause, should be done with equal zeal, promptitude, and disinterestedness; and to shew to Spain, and to the world, our generous sympathy in her sufferings, our anxious interest in her struggles, and our hearty and undivided wishes for her complete success. And he was at the same time particularly anxious that Spain should be satisfied, that whatever means we should resort to, to second her efforts, were not the result of any narrow self-consulting policy, any cold and interested speculation, but that they were the spontaneous effusions of British sympathy in the cause of that freedom and independence Britons valued beyond their lives; the cause of Spain was the cause of all those who, from enjoying, knew how to value liberty. But he was particularly anxious that the Spaniards should not be furnished with the slightest pretence to believe, that because of the state of hostility which had but recently terminated between the two countries, there still lurked in the breasts of Englishmen any hostile disposition towards that country; and above all, it was desirable that the Spaniards should have good reason to confide in our assistance, and not distrust the manner of it, or question the motives that occasioned it; every possible means should be resorted to, to convince them that, at such a crisis, we were not base enough to avail ourselves of their difficulty and danger, in order ultimately to render their noble efforts subservient to our own interests; and he could not but confess, that he thought an unanimous vote of that house to that effect would have materially contributed to the confirmation of such a disavowal on our part. But there was some consolation in reflecting that, though this vote had not been called for, the feeling
11461145Mr. Wilberforce
2 regretted, that upon this occasion, he found himself compelled to differ in opinion with his noble friend. His sentiments with respect to the object of the petition had been declared and were well known; but when parliament had so recently decided, and when so many persons stood pledged upon this subject, he could not concur in the propriety of discussing it in the present session. He thought, that the urging at this moment of these claims, tended rather to retard
2The Earl of Moira
 observed, with respect to the informality, that where such informality existed, the reception of the petition was a matter of courtesy.—The Petition was ordered to lie on the table.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, with regard to what had fallen from his noble friend, that he had not advised the presenting this petition; neither had he given any opinion respecting it, his advice not having been asked. He had stated, on a former occasion, his opinion, that it would not be expedient for the catholics to petition at the present moment; they, however, might be influenced by circumstances of which neither he nor any one besides themselves could judge. All he was anxious to state was, that he had not advised the presenting of this petition, neither had he given any opinion against presenting it; nor did he mean now to give any opinion on the subject. Perhaps, if he had known the circumstances that led to the petition, he might have thought it expedient that it should be presented. The petition however having been presented, he should call the attention of the house to the question, whether it was not fit that the matter of the petition should become a subject of discussion. Understanding that the 13th of May would be more convenient than the 11th, he moved that the lords be summoned on the 13th.—Ordered.Lord Grenville
 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of Ireland, praying that the disabilities respecting them might be removed; which was read at the table. His lordship stated, that there was an informality attached to it, in consequence of some of the names signed to it, not having been written by the persons bearing those names, although written by their authority. He believed, however, that petitions had been received where an informality of this kind existed, but where, as in this case, there were other names to the petition, signed by the parties themselves. He moved, that the Petition do lie on the table, and stated, that he should also move, that the lords be summoned for the 11th of May, with the view of then moving the consideration of this petition.Lord Grenville
 thanked his noble friend for bringing this subject forward; and although the part of the bill alluded to by his noble friend might not be exactly that on which he should found his objections, he yet must say, without now entering into the subject, that this bill was a great innovation upon the constitution; and he trusted when the day of discussion arrived, that those who supported the bill would be prepared to state to the house the reasons on which it was founded.—The bill was ordered to be read a 2nd time on the 16th of May, and the lords to be summoned.Lord Holland
 acquainted the house, that he held in his hands a Petition from the lord mayor, aldermen, and corporation of the city of Dublin, praying that house not to acquiesce in the prayer of the Petition presented by the Roman Catholics of Ireland. His royal highness stated, that he had had this Petition for some time in his possession, and was then induced to present it, in consequence of the notice of an intended motion given on this subject last night.The duke of Cumberland
 declared, that had he been in the house at the time when the Catholic Petition was presented, he should have taken the opportunity of expressing the strong and sincere regret he felt at pressing such a subject again into public discussion. After its recent discussion, a discussion the most serious and conclusive that ever took place in the history of parliament, it was the declared sense of their lordships, by a great majority, not to acquiesce in the prayer of the petitioners; he could not but regret, that the same subject was again so precipitately pressed, before the attention of parliament.Lord Auckland
 never could accede to the validity of such a position, that because, in former sessions of parliament, that house had come to a decision adverse to the views of a certain description of the king's subjects, therefore, that it operated as a bar to their future hopes and petitions. But what were the circumstances which particularly marked this case? It was true, that the house did not accede to the prayer of the former Petition, neither did it reject it altogether; the motion was set aside by the carrying of the previous question; and it must be in the recollection of his noble friend, and of the other noble lords who heard him, that many of those who then voted for the previous question, expressed themselves alone hostile to the time in which that Petition was presented. It surely might be presumed, that those objections were removed, and that circumstances had since occurred to render it advisable for that body of people to submit their case to the legislature.Lord Holland
32 said he could not suffer it to pass its first stage without making some observations upon its general merits. Highly as he respected public opinion, and desirous as he was of always exhibiting a willingness to accede to its judgment, he still did not see any ground to change the opinion he had on a former occasion given upon this subject. It had been totally misunderstood by the public, and he was one of those who could see no danger from giving to the executive government that laudable influence, which in the end provided for the concerns of the public. He was ready to admit, that when the right of granting reversions was vested in the crown, it was an abuse, but ftill it was to be recollected, that the practice had existed for 300 years, and had the sanction of ancient usage. If, indeed, any corrupt grant of this nature had been made, or if there were others which stood in the way of a salu-
32The Earl of Moira
 said, in the second stage of this bill he should certainly feel it his duty to advert to the observations of the noble earl. He then only wished to know, when it was intended to read this bill a 2nd time?Earl Grosvenor
 called the attention of the house to this bill, which he said purported to be a bill to amend the law, but which, in his opinion, tended to make it worse. He thought that part of the bill in particular which related to proceedings on information highly objectionable. He did not mean to debate the bill now; his object was, that a day should be fixed for the second reading, and that it should be fully discussed. He therefore moved; that the bill be read a 2nd time on the 16th of May, and that the lords be summoned.Earl Stanhope
 intimated to his noble friend, that he was under an error in supposing that the motion founded on the former Petition of the Irish Catholics was overruled by the adoption of the previous question. The fact he believed to be, that the motion for sending that Petition to a committee was rejected by a very considerable majority of their lordships.—The Petition was then read, and ordered to lie on the table.Lord Hawkesbury
 proposed the 9th of May, which was adopted.Lord Hawkesbury
 said, he was; under the necessity of again calling the attention of their lordships to the papers for which he had moved on a former occasion, respecting the detention of Danish vessels, previous to the declaration of hostilities against Denmark, and the condemnation of those ships subsequent to that declaration. On a closer examination of the Papers which were laid on the table yesterday, he found that no return had been made to two of their lordships orders; that which regarded the number of ships detained before the declaration of war against Denmark, and that which regarded the number of Danish subjects detained before that declaration. He had seen, indeed, a letter from the Admiralty to the Transport Board, stating the order by which the return of the number of prisoners was required; but no exact return had been made to that order, though the answer was not sent, back for six days after the receipt of the order. Under these circumstances, which would prevent him from bringing forward his motion on this subject as soon as he had expected, he must now renew the motion he had made immediately before the recess, and move That a return be made forthwith to the third and fourth orders of their lordships of the 18th March last.Lord Sidmouth
87 rose to express his wish, that the noble viscount would not be dissuaded from persisting in his motion, even if the papers he had moved for should not be produced to the extent he had desired. There would still remain matter of great importance in the object of the motion, and which nearly concerned the honour and character of this country. It appeared, that many of the Danish ships which had been detained previous to the declaration of hostilities, had been brought before the Admiralty Courts, and had been ordered to be released; but that on the declaration of war being issued, these same ships were again detained, and afterwards condemned. Was not this stimulating the
87Lord Holland
 in explanation complained, that ministers seemed to think of nothing but crimination and recrimination. He blamed the conduct of no particular minister, but only reprobated a system of iniquity which had grown into practice of late years.Lord Holland
 assured his noble friend that he would not abandon the motion. When he alluded to it yesterday, he had observed that it had nothing of crimination in view, but that it would only go to stop the progress of the practice that had been resorted to and in his opinion was highly unjust, and to prevent further injustice being done to individuals. Whenever he should have the honour to bring forward that motion, he should not despair of being able to prove, that the object in its nature was wholly different from the case to which the noble secretary had referred. As, however, some delay might occur in producing the returns he had moved for, he must defer his motion to a more distant day than Tuesday next.Lord Sidmouth
 would not now enter into the discussion of the question which his noble friend's motion must involve on a future day. He should only remind the noble viscount of the circumstance of the detention of some Prussian ships under similar circumstances, when the noble viscount himself was a member of the government at the time. He should at present only wish, that when the Papers were produced, the noble viscount in giving notice of the day on which he should bring on his niotion, would have the goodness to state somewhat more precisely the nature of the motion he intended to make, as the subject on which it turned was one of great magnitude and extent.Lord Hawkesbury
100l. presented a bill, the object of which he stated to be the relief of persons imprisoned for small debts in certain cases, namely, where the party had been imprisoned in execution for twelve calendar months, and where the debt, exclusive of costs, did not exceed 20100l.Lord Ellenborough
 supported the bill, in order that there might be no obstacle in the way of the labours of the committee of finance; and the more so as there was supposed to be a disposition somewhere, though not open and avowed, to throw impediments in the way of that committee. The objection of the noble and learned lord, that there was no recommendation from the crown, could surely be of little avail after the recommendations from the throne at the end of the last and the commencement of the present parliament, to adopt measures with a view to economy in the public expenditure. The noble and learned lord had talked of measures to which this would lead, and which would endanger the constitution; but what was the object of the committee of finance? simply to consider of economy, and to prevent a lavish expenditure of the public money, at a crisis like the present, when burdens, however necessary, pressed heavily upon the people. From such measures, instead of danger, the most beneficial consequences would result. He considered the present bill as of little efficacy compared with the former; but it should nevertheless have his support, rather than that no measure of the kind should be adopted.Earl Grosvenor
 professed himself at a loss to discover any reason which existed for passing the present bill. He thought it was incumbent upon those who proposed or supported a measure which infringed upon a prerogative that had been exercised for 300 years, to shew that abuses existed in the exercise of that prerogative, or that some great public benefit would be derived from its limitation or its abolition. In this case, however, nothing of this nature had been shewn, nor was there any evidence before them that such a measure could be of the slightest utility. He thought there had been a great public delusion upon this subject, and that advantages had been held out which could not by any possibility result from this measure. He could not consider this measure as of the slightest importance with a view to economy; nor was there any information before the house to prove, in any other point of view, its necessity or expediency.The Earl of Moira
 observed, that the former bill having been rejected, a new bill, of a similar description, ought not, according to the ancient usage of the constitution, to be entertained; and from the circumstances under which this bill had come up, he thought the house ought to make a stand here in support of their own independence, and reject it.Earl Morton
 thought there was little necessity for combating the arguments used against the bill, as the speech of his noble friend (the earl of Moira) who opposed the bill, and the speeches of the noble lords on the other side who also opposed the bill, answered each other. The noble lords on the other side thought the bill would actually destroy the constitution, whilst his noble friend, on the contrary, thought it a measure of no consequence. With this contrariety of opposition, there needed little to be said in support of the
Lord Holland
 supported the bill, chiefly on the ground that he conceived secret influence to have been used in the rejection of the former bill; and wherever it appeared, he thought it his duty to make a firm stand in opposition to it.—The bill was then read a second time.Lord Somers
 repeated his former arguments upon this subject, and thought the bill the first step to measures pregnant with danger to the constitution, and which therefore they ought to resist in the outset. He considered the former bill as less exceptionable than the present; as in that, what was decided was broadly and fairly stated, but in this he conceived an attempt was made to draw their lordships into an approbation of measures which might prove highly injurious, and which, if rumours were to be believed, would tend to a material invasion of the constitution. The bill in itself would, if passed, be an infringement of the constitution, for which no adequate reason was stated. It was not enough to say that inquiries were pending; their lordships ought to be informed of the nature of the measures which were intended to be proposed, and for which this bill was to lead the way. The former bill had been rejected, and he thought the house ought to make a stand upon their independance, and reject this also, coming, as it did, so immediately after the rejection of the other, and standing as it did on no better, or rather on worse grounds.Lord Redesdale
140 on moving the 2nd reading of this bill, stated briefly the former proceedings respecting this subject, and contended that there was a material difference between the principle of this bill, and that of the former bill, which went to the total abolition of the prerogative of granting offices in reversion, upon the mere ground of expediency, stated in the preamble, whilst, in the present bill, it was only proposed to suspend that prerogative for a limited period, and that on special ground stated in the preamble, namely, with a view to inquiries now pending in the house of commons. It was easy to conceive that such a suspension might be of mate-
140Lord Hawkesbury,
 regretted, that after the subject had been so long before the house, so little should be done by this bill, and particularly that no regulation was made with respect to the Court of Tiends. He wished also that something-more had been done, with respect to the introduction of trial by jury.The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought that nothing should he done with respect to tiends until after a judicial decision as to the rights of the clergy.The Lord Chancellor
 defended the bill, which he thought would tend to operate a material reform in the administration of justice in Scotland. With respect to trial by jury, the house was not yet ripe for deciding that point, nor did he believe that it was sufficiently understood in Scotland.—The bill was then read a third time, and passed.Lord Hawkesbury
 spoke highly in praise of the virtues of the illustrious duchess, and was sure that every loyal subject would readily agree to the address.Lord Auckland
ll159 rose, not to oppose the address, but to narrow the grounds on which alone it ought to be proposed. The house had nothing now to do with the military talents and career of the duke of Brunswick, or with the contest in which he had last been engaged. All the house should consider was, that the illustrious person for whom such an establishment was proposed was very nearly connected with his majesty; for if, in the present state of the continent, every unfortunate prince or princess were to seek a retreat and an establishment in this country, merely on the score of their misfortunes, it was not unlikely that we might have many candidates for the bounty of the British nation. If he was not wrongly informed, this illustrious person had already a pension on the Irish establishment, which, with what was now proposed, which he understood to be
ll159The Earl of Lauderdale
 rose, and repeated his objections to the bill. It was wholly different in principle from the bill that had been introduced in the commencement of the session, and was by no means such as the committee of finance had in contemplation, or as the country was led to expect. If that was all the committee of finance thought of doing, then, indeed, the people would be disappointed. He fondly hoped to see the enquiries penetrate into the great departments of government, the navy, the army, the ordnance, where great and essential savings might be made: but if their object was only to abolish some sinecure places, which he rather thought should be retained for the reward of public services, then, instead of promoting economy, it might be found that they would have increased expence. But nothing more displeased him in the bill, than seeing it was the result of a petty compromise between ministers, who wished to secure their places, and that party by whom this bill had hitherto been opposed, and who possessed a secret influence which was known to be able to make or unmake ministers.The Earl of Lauderdale
 did not think the bill sufficient, but he still should support it, and consider it as a pledge of what the house was further disposed to do, and as a pledge which he trusted they would redeem.—The bill was then read a third time and passed.The Earl of Darnley
 was surprised to see the house deserted by those who had prognosticated such alarming mischief's from the bill. This to him was a new proof that the passing of the present bill was a matter of compromise; not of that sort of compromise of which the noble lord opposite had just spoken, but a compromise that was to keep ministers in their places, while they removed the objections of that party upon whom their power was known to depend.Lord Holland
160 perfectly concurred with the noble lord who spoke last, as to the propriety of retaining some fund from which his majesty might be enabled to reward services, where the persons who had rendered those services, had not been born to hereditary wealth. Such a fund, he thought, sinecure places might contribute to supply. He differed widely, however, from that noble lord as to his insinuations of a compromise; did not the very nature of the constitution depend on compromise? otherwise, could public bu-
160Lord Harrowby
 observed, that he could not think it necessary to detain the house with more than a few words, in order to induce them cheerfully to concur in the recommendation which he had the honour of delivering from his majesty. When their lordships recollected the military talents and general character of the duke of Brunswick; when they recollected the share he bore in a contest, which was not more the contest of Prussia than of England; when they recollected his hard fate, his melancholy fall, and the indignity offered even to his remains by the ruler of France, all of which must be still green in their lordships recollections; when they reflected how all those sufferings of that illustrious person must have preyed on the feelings of his illustrious consort, in whose behalf this recommendation came from his majesty, for the comfort, and dignity of her age and rank; when they reflected on her near relation to his majesty; they would surely do with alacrity, what that house was ever ready to do—give eager proof of their attachment and affection to their sovereign, in furthering whatever object they knew he had at heart. His lordship concluded with moving an address to his majesty, assuring his majesty that that house would cheerfully concur in promoting the purpose of his royal communication.Lord Hawkesbury
 and the Lord Chancellor disclaimed the doctrine that the bill was subversive of the constitution, inimical to the prerogative, or repugnant to the dignity of that house. If it had any such tendency, it never should have had their countenance and support.Lord Hawkesbury
l objected to its principle, which appeared to be this, that a debtor was to be subject to twelve months imprisonment for a debt of 20lThe Earl of Moira
 also supported the bill. He had some doubt as to how far it might tend to weaken the security of the creditor, but he thought it an experiment worth trying.—The bill was then read a second time.The Lord Chancellor
253l contended, that his noble friend had in some degree misconceived the object of the bill, as it did not impose twelve months imprisonment upon a debtor; the creditor might release him sooner. The only object of the bill was, that after having been imprisoned for 12 months the debtor might demand his discharge. He admitted that there were no means in this bill of distinguishing the fraudulent from the unfortunate debtor, nor was it practicable, but at the same time it was not likely that such frauds would be committed for the sake of obtaining an amount of less than 20253lLord Ellenborough
l observed, that under the law, as it now stood, a debtor might be imprisoned for an indefinite time; but by the present bill he might, where the debt did not exceed 20lLord Erskine
, upon the motion for the second reading of this bill, intimated, that many noble lords had been under a mistake, respecting the day appointed for its discussion, having understood that it would take place on Wednesday; and as it was a bill of great importance, he trusted their lordships would agree with him in the propriety of discharging the order as it then stood, in order that it might take place on Wednesday.The Lord Chancellor
. My lords, I perfectly agree with the noble and learned lord that this bill is a measure of the greatest importance, and that it would be proper that the discussion be deferred till Wednesday, but then I earnestly implore that those noble lords will attend on that day. I should also have concurred with that noble and learned lord, if he had further said, that there never was a more infamous bill brought up from the house of commons, for it has a tendency to destroy the Trial by Jury; nay worse, to render that trial ridiculous.—The motion was agreed to.Earl Stanhope
313312311310309308307306305llll304303302in re minimè dubiâ,eundo, morando, et redeundo,301 said, that he was at length enabled to submit to their lordships' consideration a subject highly important to the interests of many individuals, both foreigners and natives, as well as to the honour and reputation of the country.—But before he entered upon the details to which it would be necessary for him to call the attention of their lordships, he was desirous of being understood, as having no intention to re-agitate a question, which had been already decided; much less to aim at rescinding a judgment, which had been solemnly pronounced: for that in fact, between the merits of the subject to which he particularly referred, namely, the Attack on Copenhagen, and of that then before the house, there was no necessary connection; and all he had to ask, (and he assured their lordships that what he asked of them should be observed on his part,) was that the opinions entertained on this point, might be kept in their proper place, and not brought forward to bear upon arguments, and conclusions, to which they had no direct or regular application.—It could not, he said, be denied, that according to the principles of natural
313312311310309308307306305llll304303302in re minimè dubiâ,eundo, morando, et redeundo,301Lord Sidmouth
314 contended, that the real question before the house was not with respect to those principles of justice alluded to by the noble lord, but with respect to their application, under certain circumstances; it being quite clear to his mind, that there were circumstances under which the application of those principles must be very different to what it would be under other circumstances. With respect to the opinion of those eminent men whom the noble lord had quoted, it was quite clear that it was not the opinion upon which the state had acted, as in the year 1761 a diametrically opposite doctrine was held, and this country would not subsequently make peace with France until she gave up the demand that no vessels should be considered as captures which were taken previous to hostilities, or the issuing of reprisals. With respect also to the opinion of sir W. Wynne, a decision of the court of admiralty in 1779, was in direct opposition to it. An article upon this subject was formerly inserted in the several treaties, and from forming part of the conventional law of nations, had been confounded with the unwritten law. There could be no doubt, however, that as the law stood, all enemy's property was forfeited to the crown; a vessel therefore detained, although at the time there might be no reason for the detention, yet from the circumstances of hostilities commencing, became forfeited to the crown. This might operate as a hard case in many instances upon individuals: but he had great doubts that there could be any thing like a commercial peace and a political war at the same time; he thought such a system, and the
314The Lord Chancellor
 pressed upon the consideration of the house, the peculiar claim which the Danes had upon our performing some act of remuneration for the losses which they had suffered. They had been particularly impressed with the good faith of this country, and entertained a strong sense of its honour and integrity. By no other means could any people in their situation have been led to send their ships to the ports of England. G. Britain had hitherto been celebrated for her love of justice, her honour, and her sincerity; in this disposition the Danish merchants unwarily confided, and were ruined.—The house then divided on the question, that lord Sidmouth's motion be now put: Contents, 16; Non-contents, 36. Majority, 20.—And, on the fourth Resolution, another division took place: Contents, 16; Non-contents, 37. Majority. 21.The Earl of Lauderdale
315 could not avoid making some observations upon the question before the house. His lordship proceeded to quote different passages from Magna Charta, as to the kindness and hospitality to be exercised by the people of this country towards strangers trading towards our coasts; and comparing these passages, and the inducements held out to the Danes to consider the amicable relations between them and this country secure, asked, if our afterwards seizing, as
315Earl Stanhope
jure coroœ; said, the motion of his noble friend did not go to ask a favour of his majesty, in surrendering any thing to which he was entitled jure coroœ;Lord Ellenborough
 contended, that neither the noble viscount, nor the noble and learned lord, had proved that there was any departure in this instance from the usage and practice with respect to other nations, or that, being consistent with such practice and usage, there was any injustice committed. There could not be any doubt as to the law, that enemy's' property was forfeited to the crown, and therefore, that detained vessels in the event of the commencement of hostilities became forfeited.Lord Hawkesbury
 admitted that the vessels detained must be forfeited to the crown as enemy's property, and that the court of admiralty could give no relief; but that was no reason why the crown Could not give relief. On the contrary, that was the very object of his noble friend's proposition in this case, to address the crown, with the view of relieving those who had suffered from the application of this principle of law. This proposition had his full and entire approbation, and those who combated it must shew that there was an actual necessity for detaining and keeping these trading vessels; otherwise the owners were entitled in justice to a compensation.Lord Erskine
 could not omit this occasion of expressing his regret at the frequent introduction of bills of this description.The Lord Chancellor
 acquiesced in the justness of the noble and learned lord's observation, and hoped that the introduction of such bills would cease.The Bishop of Exeter
415 considered the bill as of very great importance, inasmuch as it shewed the numerous inconveniences that arose from the Marriage Act. As the noble and learned lord seemed resolved to turn his attention to these inconveniencies, he would perhaps discover how far it might be expedient to repeal the Marriage Act, or so far to new model its provisions as to
415The Earl of Lauderdale
 concurred in this opinion. He wished even the legislature would take a more wide and liberal view of the Marriage Act, and some other acts, such as the Corporation and Test Acts, which proved such hardships to so many large descriptions of his majesty's subjects. Surely that act could not be practically wise and useful which justified a recurrence to so many suspensions of it.Lord Holland
 said he must have been grossly mis-understood, if it was supposed he could entertain any intention of moving the repeal of any of these acts; on the contrary an occasion was likely soon to occur when he should declare his opinion of the necessity of retaining them.The Lord Chancellor
 would never sit silent and hear the declarations that were made by some noble lords. As he deeply and sincerely revered the Marriage Act, and as he felt the great importance of a strict observance of it, so should he always be ready to raise his voice against the opinion of those to whom nothing in the constitution appeared sacred, and who avowed the design of proposing the repeal of the Marriage Act, and other acts equally essential to The safety of the state, and to the well being and peace of the community. Those who harboured such designs, could not mean well to their country.Lord Redesdale
 called to order. He felt much respect for the noble and learned lord, but he never would allow him or any noble lord to impute motives to noble lords as influencing the opinions they delivered in that house.Earl Stanhope
 did not conceive himself to be disorderly. He did not think that any noble lord without moving for the repeal of an act of the legislature had a right to enter into arguments that treated it with disrespect.Lord Redesdale
 called the noble and learned lord to order, and reprobated the narrowness and illiberality of his opinions, which were now held odious in every part of the country, and which he was certain would prove as mischievous as they were odious.The Earl of Lauderdale
 contended that his noble and learned friend was strictly in order, and that his observations grew out of the bill before the house.Lord Ellenborough
416 then went on, and contended that he did not conceive he had made any unparliamentary remarks: on
416Lord Redesdale
 conceived the noble lord as most illiberal in his observations on this and other discussions of a like nature, and was convinced there was not one noble lord within the four corners of the house, who did not think so.The Earl of Lauderdale
, considered the language used by the noble lord as most unparliamentary, and tending to prevent the freedom of debate. The question had been naturally introduced by the motion for reading the bill, which proposed an indemnity to persons who had offended against the Marriage act. Besides, he protested against the doctrine that no law was to be amended, nor any new one introduced, without subjecting the person so introducing the measure to the imputation of acting with evil designs against the constitution. If such doctrine was once introduced, the liberty of speech would be destroyed, and some noble lords would perhaps be intimidated from doing their duty.—The bill was then read a second time.Lord Holland
 observed that this oath did not apply to the trial of misdemeanors, and that in ninety-nine cases of misdemeanor out of a hundred, in the court of king's bench, the defendants were not present at their trials.Lord Ellenborough
 resumed and observed, that, the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, only made parentheses in his own speeches, but the noble and learned lord who had just sat down made parentheses in the speeches of other persons.Earl Stanhope
 said he considered himself as appealed to by the noble earl.Lord Ellenborough
ex officioex officioex officio418 continued his argument. Would the noble lord say that it was consonant to the constitution, or to the common law of the land, that a person ought to be imprisoned for a misdemeanor, before he was found guilty of the slightest offence, and that he should be kept a prisoner till the trial, which his prosecutor might delay as long as he pleased? It was a great hardship in the law that a man should be kept in prison on suspicion. Suppose he could prove an alibi, how was he to do it when in prison? He might know where the persons to prove it were to be met with, but not know their names, so as to enable others to come at them for the purpose of his acquittal: and the learned lord who was so fond of parentheses in other men's speeches, well knew
ex officioex officioex officio418Earl Stanhope
ex officio419 rose, and observed, that he had expected some noble lord who supported the bill would have attempted to shew its necessity. He had conceived that the noble and learned lord (Ellenborough) had intended to do so, and he was
ex officio419Lord Holland
ex officioex parte420ex officio contended, that considerable misconception had taken place with respect to this bill, which did not alter the law as it now stood, or at least very slightly, but merely defined more accurately the course to be pursued. As the law at present stood, it was well known that persons might be held to bail not merely upon indictment, but by any justice of the peace, upon a charge of misdemeanor. With respect to informations filed ex officioex parte420ex officioLord Ellenborough
421ex officio condemned the principle of extending regulations made with an immediate view to the collection of the revenue, to other cases. With respect to the bill, he admitted there was nothing in it affecting the Trial by Jury, as supposed by the noble earl (Stanhope), and that the objection of trying a man in his absence did not apply to it. He contended, however, that the bill did make an alteration in the law as it now stood, and for which no necessity had been shewn; namely, in holding to bail upon informations filed 421ex officioLord Erskine
ex officio contended that the only question at present was, whether there was so much good in this bill as to authorise its being sent to a committee. He thought there was. With respect to informations filed ex officioThe Lord Chancellor
422 was glad that some alteration was to be made in the bill, as in that case it would be sent back to the commons. His lordship proceeded to shew the absurdity of contending, that because judges were sometimes honest men, or attorney-generals persons who could be trusted, therefore extraordinary powers should be vested in their hands. Were he to attempt to drive such a doctrine down the throat of the noble and learned lord, he was convinced he could not say Amen to it. Judges and attorney-generals were like
422Earl Stanhope
 enforced the inapplicability of revenue statutes to the common law of the country, and argued, that the advantages felt in carrying these revenue statutes into execution, would by no means enable us to judge how far similar or equal good was to be expected from an extension of the system. If we were once to embrace this doctrine, we might expect, to see the facilities afforded by the Income tax, which was a revenue statute, sought to be extended to the effect of forcing persons, at all times, to make a disclosure of their property, on the pretence that thereby bankruptcies might be diminished. Many other provisions of an equally dangerous nature might be grounded on the principle here laid down, which, on the whole, had his most decided opposition.The Earl of Lauderdale
 confessed that some of his objections had been removed by his noble friend (lord Ellenborough) and by the noble lord on the woolsack, but still he continued so decidedly hostile to the preamble, and to the general principle of the measure, that he could not vote for the second reading of the bill.Lord Holland
473472471470469468467466465464463462461460459458457the work was ended456455454453452451450*** 473472471470469468467466465464463462461460459458457the work was ended456455454453452451450***The Earl of Lauderdale
 at considerable length, contended, that the usage upon this point, in favour of a second augmentation, ought, not to be disturbed, and was of opinion that the interlocutor ought to be affirmed with some alteration.—After a few observations in reply from the earl of Lauderdale, the motion was negatived, and the interlocutor of the Court of Session affirmed.The Lord Chancellor,
 took an opportunity of mentioning the abuses that were practised with respect to the publication of bans, by means of parties taking a fictitious lodging in a parish different from that in which they resided, and having the bans there published. He knew of many very improper marriages which had taken place in consequence of this abuse, which he had in vain endeavoured to remedy.The Bishop of Oxford
 observed that it was the opinion of lord Thurlow, that the clergyman in such a case might be indicted for a temporal offence, it being the meaning of the law that the bans should be published in the parish where the parties dwelt, and it also being the duty of the clergyman to make inquiry as to that fact; although such marriages, being in themselves legally solemnized, were undoubtedly good.The Lord Chancellor
489 observed, that the necessity for these bills arose out of the very different provisions which applied to different churches and chapels, in some of which marriages were allowed to be solemnized and in others not. From the previous habits of clergymen, many of them could not be supposed to be acquainted with these legal distinctions, and
489The Archbishop of Canterbury
 thought the suggestion might be carried into effect, by means of a clause in the present bill.Lord Redesdale
 thought the clause for indemnifying the clergymen solemnizing such marriages objectionable, though he should not oppose it upon the present occasion. An intimation of an intention to oppose such clauses in future might perhaps have the effect of preventing the solemnization of these marriages.Lord Redesdale
d.d. observed, that this was a bill which infringed upon one of the Standing Orders of that house, by which it was declared that any matter foreign to and having no connection with the purport of any aid, supply, or money bill, being introduced therein, and thereby fettering their lordships' discretion, was destructive to the rights of that house, and unparliamentary. The bill in question purported to be for the Regulation of Customs and the Fees of custom-house officers in Ireland; and it enacted that the right of taking 6d.d.The Earl of Lauderdale
d.d. thought that so far as this bill regarded duties on the customs of Ireland, it might properly be deemed a money bill. He could see no impropriety in first taking off the 6d.d.The Lord Chancellor
 regarded the standing orders of very great importance. The noble baron (Hawkesbury) had taken considerable pains to draw all the distinctions his mind could suggest, when the standing orders of that house ought, or ought not, to be observed: for this purpose, he had gone through all the modes, and had defined at what time they were to be considered in the imperative. There could be no such distinction, for they must at all times be imperative; and their lordships might as well have no orders, if they could be thus frittered away, by leaving it to their discretion to consider them imperative or admonitory. He had no disposition to put any obstacle in the way of the present bill, other than resisting its infringement upon the orders of that house; for if the commons once found out a mode of sending up bills in that way which tended to a breach of the orders of that house, they might be induced to do so on some occasions highly dangerous to their lordships' privileges.Lord Holland
541 was surprized at what had fallen from the noble lord (Hawkesbury) in laying down a distinction, when the orders of that house should be considered imperative, and when admonitory. It was absurd to consider any Standing Order admonitory: that house might
541The Earl of Lauderdale
 rose, and expressed the utmost astonishment that no answer should be given to what had been stated by his noble friends. It was unparalleled in the history of this country, that so great a change should be made in the law of the land, without any necessity or reason but those stated in the preamble. His lordship here, with great eloquence, urged, as he had done on a former occasion, the danger of altering our laws, generally, for the purpose of obtaining the convenience of extraordinary laws made for the revenue. There were objections made by him and his noble friends which had not been answered, and in such an important change of those laws which had been handed down to us from our ancestors, and which attracted the admiration of mankind, it was requisite, he thought, that some necessity for such a change ought to be shewn by those who defended it. For his part, he considered it his duty to give a most decided opposition to such an innovation, he saw no necessity for the measure; and he thought there would be considerable difficulty in convincing him that there could be any necessity for this dangerous alteration. If the bill did not alter the law, but enacted what was already enacted, it was absurd,; and if the alteration was made, he could never assent to it, unless he was persuaded there was sufficient necessity for that alteration.Lord Holland
ex officio544 said, that although he much commended the conduct of his noble friends, who had left that house because they would not be present when such a pernicious bill passed through the committee, yet he had staid himself; for, after the unjustifiable manner in which this bill had passed before their lordships, he had an inclination to see what their lordships would do in the committee. He then submitted several alterations, and in the course of the proceeding re-
ex officio544Earl Stanhope
543 said, he had waited a little while, that some noble and learned lord might have an opportunity of speaking, but he was astonished at their silence. They perhaps thought it more prudent to remain silent, when they could give no reason if they spoke. If the noble and learned lord on the woolsack thought what was assigned in the preamble a sufficient reason, he would produce his own expressions, not in that house, while in debate, but in an act of parliament of his own framing, which would give the lie to the reason mentioned in the preamble of this blasted bill brought up from the house of commons. That house ought to be reprobated for sending such a bill; it was as contemptible in its formation as it was wicked in its principle. The noble lord commented upon the similarity of title of this bill, and that of the 26th of the present king, which was produced from the infamous bill of Pepper Arden. This act of the 26th had not continued for many years when the noble and learned lord thought proper to introduce another bill, which also passed into a statute, and in the preamble of that statute it was expressed, that great grievances to the subject and a loss of justice had been occasioned by the former one. Now, the present bill said that great convenience and benefit had resulted from the former as well as the latter. He considered it as an infringment of the liberty of the subject, and one which deserved the utmost reprobation. He was surprised at the indifference shewn by that house upon such an important change being made in the fundamental laws of this realm. When he looked round the house, and saw, on all sides, the benches deserted upon such an important occasion, he could not avoid making one observation, that if any business had been transacted there, which might excite some curiosity about the father of a child; of
543Earl Stanhope
540 said, that what had been stated by the noble earl, respecting the Standing Order of that house, applied to bills of aid and supply. He must admit that the bill before them was a money bill; but he conceived, that in respect to some particular bills, the order was not imperative but admonitory, and in the case under consideration, left it to the option of that house to put it in force, if their
540Lord Hawkesbury
542ex officio, thought it his duty to oppose its going into a committee, considering it, as he did, an alteration in the law of the land, without any necessity whatever being shewn for it. It had hitherto been invariably the practice of the constitution to draw a distinction between an indictment found by a grand jury, and an information filed by order of the court of king's bench, or by the attorney general fix officio. It was now for the first time to be declared, that on informations as well as upon indictments, the parties were to be held to bail. The practice had hitherto been upon information, to summon the party by subpoena, and if he did not appear to issue an attachment, but not to hold him to bail, the attachment being discharged the moment the party put in an appearance. Under this bill, upon the information being certified, the party might immediately be held to bail. To such an alteration he could not consent, unless some strong necessity was shewn; and not a word had been stated in favour of this bill to prove any such necessity. It was nothing to the point, that the present attorney general would not commit any abuse of his power. They were to consider what future attorney generals might do under this bill;—the king might be deceived, and a worthless person might be appointed attorney general; or an attorney general might be deceived, and informations, 542ex officio,Lord Erskine
 observed, with respect to this bill, that he should wish to move that it be read a third time this day eight months, but as that motion would not be carried, he must confine himself to fixing a day, in order that noble lords might be aware of it, and when he hoped they would attend. He therefore proposed Monday. His lordship observed, with respect to trying a man in his absence, that a jury, if they found the defendant was not present to take care of his own defence, might acquit him, and that a jury would not be subject to aft attaint for an acquittal. After quoting at length some law cases, and reading several extracts from acts of parliament, for the purpose of proving the former practice and usage of the constitution, his lordship concluded by moving, That the bill be read a third time on Monday, and that the lords be summoned; which was ordered accordingly.Earl Stanhope
674673 said, that he could not let a moment pass, as soon as he had caught the attention of their lordships, until he had met and combated the opinion of the noble viscount in the outset of his speech, where he had taken upon him to assert, that there was in the petition, or in the manner or the time of its being presented, something that would justify a suspicion of the loyalty or public spirit of the catholics of Ireland. They had come forward in no underhand way, nor had they pressed their claims in any intemperate language. They had, in the most respectful manner, submitted to this house a manly statement of the grievances they laboured under, and asked to be relieved from them. What, then, his noble friend could have seen in that petition, or the circumstances of it, that could have warranted such an imputation, he was totally at a loss to conceive. The noble viscount had further objected, that the prayer of the petition was circumscribed, and related only to few and partial exemptions. He was of a very different opinion. He could not be brought to think, that the disabilities under which the catholics at present laboured, were either few in number, or partial in operation. But the noble viscount was apprehensive, that if even the present claims of the catholics were acceded to, they would not stop here. While that body was excluded from the participation of any of the rights and privileges of a British subject, he not only thought that they would not stop there, but that they ought not. The noble viscount had extolled the constitution, and was it unnatural that those who were so long witnessing its benefits should be anxious to share in it? Was it not an ambition natural to the mind of every Briton? and while the noble viscount poured out such eulogiums on the glorious Revolution, how
674673The Earl of Moira
681680magni stat nominis umbra679678Vetabo sub iisdem sit trabibus.677676per se,—My lords; I rise, for the first time in my life, to address your lordships, and I rise with unaffected reluctance; not because I entertain the smallest doubt respecting either the expediency, the policy, or the justice of the measure now under consideration; but, because, to a person in my situation, it must be exceedingly painful, (however firmly persuaded he may be in his own mind) to find himself impelled by a sense of duty, to maintain an opinion, directly the reverse of which is supported by so many wise and good men who belong to the same profession, and who sit upon the same bench with him. Important occasions however, sometimes arise, on which an individual may be called upon to avow his own sentiments explicitly and unequivocally, without any undue deference to the judgment of others. Such an occasion I conceive the present to be, and shall without further apology trouble your lordships with a few remarks.—I have considered, with all the care and attention of which I am capable, the various arguments which are urged against the Petition in favour of the Catholics of Ireland, which has, this day, for the second time, been presented and supported by the noble baron on the other side of the house, with his usual abilities, and at the same time, with that well known regard for the real interest of the Established Church, for its peace, its security, its honour, and its prosperity, which forms, and has always formed so distinguished a part in the character of that noble lord.—These objections, my lords, numerous as they are said to be, may all of them, I think, be reduced under four heads. In the first place, it is asserted, or rather strongly insinuated, that the religious tenets of the Catholics, are of such a nature as, 681680magni stat nominis umbra679678Vetabo sub iisdem sit trabibus.677676per se,The Bishop of Norwich.
 could not adopt the opinion of his right reverend friend, for whose understanding and virtues he had the highest respect, nor relinquish the safeguards which our ancestors had found it necessary to establish against the principles of the Popish religion. If this Petition had only sued for toleration the most extended, he would have felt no difficulty in acceding to its prayer: for toleration was the key-stone of the reformed church. But no complaint of this sort had been made. The Catholics enjoyed their rights under the protection of the law, and he was glad of it; but he hoped parliament would always resist their attempts at acquiring political power; because, however temporal and spiritual power might be disjoined in theory, they could not be practically separated. It had been said, that Catholics ought not to be judged now by the sentiments which had been formerly held by people of that persuasion. If any material alteration in their articles of faith had taken place, it became them distinctly to shew it. But it was a well-known rule of that church, that all the canons remained in force that were not repealed by a general council; and, certainly, there were many objectionable points, that by this rule must be still considered as part of the Roman Catholic faith. He allowed that many Catholics had been eminent for virtue and piety. Who could hear the name of Fenelon without veneration? He admitted that men might live together very well in society, notwithstanding differences of opinion on speculative points, but he denied that parliament could be opened to the Catholics as long as they owned a foreign jurisdiction, and maintained that there was no salvation beyond the pale of their own church. Impressed with these sentiments, though he by no means regretted what the Catholics had already obtained, he thought it inconsistent with wisdom and sound policy to break down the remaining barriers.The Archbishop of York
Erratahonestum.utile,682 had no objection to the fullest toleration in every respect; but if the prayer of this petition should be granted, the Catholics would be on a foot-
Erratahonestum.utile,682The Bishop of Bangor
687 supported the motion. Adverting to the power of rejecting their Bishops, which the Catholics were
687The Duke of Norfolk
692 did not think it necessary to enter into a discussion of the various polemical points which had been brought forward in the course of the debate. The question for parliament to consider was, what was the state of Ireland, and what the remedy proper to be applied to it in the present exigency? If the good will of four millions of the people was necessary to the safety of Ireland, if Ireland was necessary to the safety of the empire, this measure ought to be acceded to. With the danger of the present day he contended that no preceding period could fairly be compared. The reign of William III. which had been quoted, had no analogy whatever to it, and therefore the existence of the penal laws, at that or any other period that had been mentioned, could present nothing in their justification at this moment. These penal laws were, in his mind, always odious, but peculiarly so at present, when all the pretexts for their original enactment ceased to exist. The noble lord vindicated the book of Dr. Milner against the misrepresentation of it which appeared in the speech of one of the reverend prelates; but he contended that whatever that book, or the book of any other individual, however high in talent or character, might contain that should be reprehensible, could not fairly be alleged as a ground of censure upon the whole sect of which that individual might be a member. He replied to the assertion, that the peasantry of Ireland cared not a farthing about, the object for which the higher orders of their persuasion were now seeking. What, he would ask, bound a man to the glory of his country? What made the lower orders rejoice in the honours and achievements of their generals and admirals? What made their hearts beat with exultation at the mere mention of such names as Nelson's? What, but the principle and feeling which must excite pleasure in the Irish peasant's breast, when informed of the advancement and distinction of one of his persuasion and way of thinking. As to the attempt made to identify the Revolution with the abominable code against the catholics, he protested against the identity. He also protested against the Revolution, as being provoked by ca-
692Lord Holland
694693 said that he should state very shortly the motives of his adherence to the opinion which he had expressed so fully on a former occasion. He had even been inclined to give a silent vote; for it did not appear to him that any new circumstances had arisen, or that any new arguments had been adduced to shake or controvert the solemn decision of 1805. Without entering into any details, he felt himself compelled by his sense of public duty to resist any further indulgences to the Roman-catholics of Ireland. From 1778 to 1793 concession had followed concession, and every indulgence had produced a new demand; "Increase of appetite had "grown by what it fed on." Many of those concessions had been wise and just, and he had materially contributed to some of them; but he had always considered the concessions of 1793 as going beyond the line of prudence; and to the effect of those concessions he attributed the embarrassing anomaly in which Ireland was now placed, with reference to the other parts
694693Lord Auckland
 vindicated the character and conduct of the Roman Catholics of Ireland and Great Britain from the aspersions thrown upon them by their enemies, and gave his hearty support to the motion.The Earl of Suffolk
 in allusion to what had fallen from a right reverend prelate, admitted that a million sterling was a great deal of money to pay annually to him and his brethren. As to the mistranslation of the Bible, the papists were not perhaps far wrong, as far as respected the early versions. The garbled manuscript in the British Museum was a proof of this. The parts improperly translated having been written in a different ink from the true and genuine passages, time had consumed one of the sorts of ink, and the whole imposition was detected. But the bishops were very eager for uniformity: where was that uniformity in the church of England, when the differences in the Common Prayer Books of Cambridge and Oxford amounted to 3,600 and upwards? All the bishops ought to be ashamed of themselves. He begged pardon for saying 'all;' one respectable prelate had made a most logical, sound, and liberal speech on the present occasion, and had been most miserably answered by the priest who spoke last. When the privileges of three millions of people were under consideration, it was scandalous to be reading anonymous libels against them. He should have thought that the noble viscount on the cross bench (Sidmouth) might have been better acquainted with the rule of order, than to accuse the catholics of a want of patriotism, merely because they persisted in claiming what appeared to them to be their due. The noble earl then read a paper published by the English catholics, disclaiming all the mischievous doctrines imputed to them, in which they were joined by the Irish catholics, and concluded by observing, that there could not be a libel urged against them to which that paper was not a complete answer.Earl Stanhope,
672671670* See Cobbett's Parliamentary History of England, vol. iv, p. 1342.669668667666 rose and said, that differing entirely as he did from the noble baron, by whom the motion had been made, he was desirous of submitting the grounds of that difference to their lordships' consideration. That the subject to which it applied was of "the most awful importance, and delicate in the highest degree," he most readily admitted; but he was utterly at a loss to account for the agitation of it at this time. The noble baron had on a former day distinctly declared that he had no share in advising it: by a noble earl (the earl of Moira) it had been deprecated in the strongest terms: both those noble lords were then apprehensive that the cause to which they were friendly, might be prejudiced by a discussion at the present moment: it was, indeed, impossible but that they must be conscious of what was clue to the opinion so recently expressed by parliament, and to feelings, the prevalence of which had been still more recently manifested throughout, the kingdom. The petitioners had therefore come forward under circumstances, which, in the opinion of some of their most powerful friends, reflected no credit on their prudence: he was, however, apprehensive that they had also subjected themselves to the danger of imputations on their public spirit and patriotism: not that a doubt-was entertained by him
672671670* See Cobbett's Parliamentary History of England, vol. iv, p. 1342.669668667666Viscount Sidmouth
686 was satisfied that the discussion of this subject could produce nothing but irritation and mischief. He contrasted the conduct of the noble lords opposite when in power, with their conduct now they were out of power. When in power, they were ready to relinquish even a comparatively insignificant measure to relieve the catholics; now they were out of power, nothing would content them but a full and complete concession.
686Lord Mulgrave
685684683 denied that this was a party question, or that any influence had
685684683Lord Hutchinson
 opposed the motion, because he was averse to the whole principle of the measure. He had every reason to love the people of Ireland, but he was convinced that a compliance with the prayer of the petition would be so far from tranquillizing that country, that it would have a quite contrary effect. The catholics now wanted seats in parliament; but this was only to be the step to a great deal more: He gave it as his opinion, that if the parliament was opened to the catholics, eighty dissenters from the church of England would be returned for Ireland; and this opinion was founded on the great increase of the catholic freeholders. Adverting to the negative proposed to be allowed to his majesty in the appointment of Roman-catholic bishops, he observed that this was no more than giving a concurrent jurisdiction with Buonaparte, who commanded the pope. The principles of the catholics, he thought, ought to be watched with jealousy. He quoted an observation in the publication of Dr. Milner, in order to shew the spirit which still appeared to prevail among them. This was a remark on the statue of his majesty, or his predecessor, at Cork; which was said to be painted yellow because the king was an orange-man, and sided with a few thousands of his subjects against as many millions. He agreed perfectly with the noble baron who introduced the subject, that it would be wise to make a provision for the catholic clergy. This, and a proper plan of education to enlighten the minds of the people, would be the best boon for Ireland. The granting of the present claims could do little good, and might do a great deal of harm.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
691690689688 had hoped, from the conduct of the learned lord when this subject was last before parliament, and from his knowledge of the laws and constitution of his country, that he would vote against the motion, and not for it. For his own part, he should fail in his duty if he did
691690689688Lord Hawkesbury
 was of opinion, that parliament had gone on too far in the system of concession to the catholics now to make a stop, consistently with the object which gave rise to that system. He could not conceive the principle upon which the catholics were admitted into the army, the navy, and certain civil departments of the state, while they were to be excluded from those appointments for which the petitioners sought. The house should, he thought, go into the proposed committee, and there it might be considered how far the prayer of the petition might be acceded to, and whether any and what conditions were necessary to accompany the grant of the prayer of the petitioners in order to secure the Protestant establishment, in solicitude for the maintenance of which he would yield to no person or party whatever.Lord Erskine
87Majority
87Majority161Non-Contents
161Non-Contents74Contents
74Contents
87Majority
87Majority161Non-Contents
161Non-Contents74Contents
74Contents made a short reply. The proposition relative to the future appointment of catholic bishops in Ireland was, to his knowledge, long in contemplation, although the catholics had not, until lately, thought proper to make it public. It was a proposition, indeed, known to his right hon. friend now no more (Mr. Pitt), and was one of those guards and conditions with which he meant to accompany the concessions which he proposed to grant to the Catholic body. With regard to the nature of the proposition itself, he should rather think, that instead of presenting the names of three persons to the king, for his majesty to choose one from among them, as had been mentioned, it would be more eligible to present but one name, and if that were rejected, another, and so on in succession until bag majesty's approbation should be obtained.—As to the personal animadversions in which some noble lords had thought proper to indulge, he really thought that whatever reflections might be made upon his character, it would have been quite secure upon the question at present before then-lords, through his solicitude for which he had twice sacrificed the highest offices in the state.—Upon a division, the numbers were:
87Majority
87Majority161Non-Contents
161Non-Contents74Contents
74Contents
87Majority
87Majority161Non-Contents
161Non-Contents74Contents
74ContentsLord Grenville
665664663662661660659658657656655654653652651650649648647646645644 rose and spoke as follows: My lords; I am now to bring before your lordships the important subject of the Petition which has just been read. I am sincerely sorry if its postponement to a later day than that which I had originally proposed has produced inconvenience to any member of this house, especially to those whose character and functions must give them peculiar interest in this debate, whichever side they may think it their duty to espouse. To their wishes I would gladly have shewn that attention to which they are so well entitled. But, for the sake of the cause entrusted to me, I was bound to consult also the convenience of others whose assistance on such an occasion I could not but be anxious to obtain. I have still, however, to regret the absence of one noble friend of mine (earl Grey), whose eloquence is so well calculated to adorn and to enforce any opinions which he honours with his support. That absence is owing solely to the same domestic circumstance which would before have prevented his attendance. He has particularly requested me to state this fact, and to declare to your lordships his full and complete concurrence in the motion which I am about to offer. A declaration which he was desirous that I should make, in order to obviate the possibility of misrepresentation; but which was wholly unnecessary to those who know his character. From an agreement with him on any subject I must always derive the greatest plea-
665664663662661660659658657656655654653652651650649648647646645644Lord Grenville
 made a few observations on what he conceived to be the tendency of the Orders in Council, as proved by the documents on the table, to injure the trade of the country; it appeared by an Account upon the table, of Exports and Imports for the quarter ending the 5th of Jan. last, that our exports had considerably diminished, compared with those of the corresponding quarter in the preceding year. He thought it highly necessary, that the house should be in possession of the fullest information upon this subject; and for that purpose he should move for an Account of Exports and Imports from and into the port of Loudon, with the duties and drawbacks, distinguishing British manufactures, &c. for four months, up to the 1st of May 1808, and similar accounts for Liverpool, Bristol, Glasgow, Hull, and another port.Lord Auckland
 maintained, that the Orders in Council were held out as a measure of immediate efficacy, in inducing the enemy to revoke his decrees, and that, they had failed in their intended effect.The Earl of Lauderdale
 urged, that, whenever the question was argued, it ought to be argued in this point of view, namely, what would have been the effect of the enemy's decrees upon our commerce if the decrees in Council had not been issued, ft was not enough to say there was a diminution of commerce now; but the question was, what would have been the diminution under the continued operation of the enemy's decrees, if the measure of the Orders in Council had not been resorted to?The Lord Chancellor
710 contended, that the diminution being shewn after the Orders in Council had operated, it lay upon those who supported those orders, to prove that such diminution resulted from some other cause.710Lord Holland
711 objected to it, observing that the operation of the bill would
711The Earl of Moira
 observed, that the noble lord's objection was too general, inasmuch as it would apply to the general operation of the law in holding to bail; but the fact was, that reference was always had to a man's circumstances, and the amount of bail regulated accordingly. His lordship shortly detailed the provisions of the bill, respecting which it was for the house to decide.The Lord Chancellor
 contended, that no inconvenience had been shewn to have resulted from the present practice which it was at nil necessary to remedy. He objected therefore to making an unnecessary alteration in the law. He had a right to suppose in arguing this question, the case of an attorney general being the instrument of a tyrannical government, and then the provisions of this bill might prove highly injurious to the liberty of the subject.Lord Holland
 objected to the bill upon similar grounds. He had expected that the noble and learned lord would have acknowledged the statement respecting the expressions used by him to have been erroneous.Earl Stanhope
 again denied that the expressions were intended to be applied to the noble and learned lord, and objected to any reference to expressions used in a former debate.Earl Stanhope
 disavowed any intention, on his part, to impute the smallest misconduct to the noble and learned lord; he had said, and he had a right to say, that such monsters and villains as Scroggs and Jeffries had filled the office of judge; but it was impossible for him to have found any resemblance between them and the noble and learned lord; and if that noble and learned lord felt any resemblance, it was more than any other noble lord was disposed to do in that house. The rash misconception and precipitancy which had been applied to what had fallen from himself, convinced his mind that it might be improper to delegate the power proposed by that bill even to that noble and learned lord.Earl Stanhope
 thought it ought not to be proceeded upon in so thin a house, and moved to discharge the order.Earl Stanhope
 after having insisted, as he had done on a former occasion, that the principle of the bill was misunderstood and misrepresented, and that he considered the opposition to it no better than a tub thrown out for the purpose of catching popular applause, added, that he could not avoid observing, that he, as chief justice of the king's bench, was entitled to some degree of respect, but he had been grossly calumniated by an individual of that house having compared him to those monsters, who in former reigns had disgraced the bench of justice, such as Scroggs, Jeffries, &c. But he should treat the calumny and the calumniator with contempt. On a former occasion he had been blamed for his taciturnity, for which he would not apologise to that individual, but he would explain the reason to that house.Lord Ellenborough,
 still thought that the expressions were improperly applied to him.Lord Ellenborough
 went over some of his former arguments in favour of the bill, and with respect to informations filed by the attorney general, contended, that the reason of the thing required that it should neat be merely a notice to the party to run away, but that there should be the means of compelling the party to answer. With respect to the objection, that the attorney general was not compelled to receive affidavits of the facts on which he filed an information, it perhaps might be thought expedient by the court of king's bench not to hold a man to bail on such an information unless it was supported by an affidavit.Lord Ellenborough
707 rose for the purpose of calling their lordships' attention to a question of considerable importance, as it regarded a fair and true statement of what might in the course of discussion be uttered in that house. It was a standing order (although their lordships very properly did not enforce it) that no report should be given of their debates. Yet if their lordships permitted these reports to be given, still it was incumbent upon every person giving such report, that he should do it in a fair, correct, and impartial manner. His lordship thought himself very much misrepresented in having sentiments attributed to him which he abhorred and detested. The misrepresentation he complained of was contained in 'The British Press' newspaper, published last Saturday, giving an account of what passed in debate in their lordships' house on Friday night, during the
707Viscount Sidmouth
 had no objection to the motion, but contended that the Orders in Council ought not to be represented as the cause of the diminution of our trade in the quarter ending the 5th of Jan. as that was effected by orders given in the preceding quarter, which orders were issued in consequence of the rigorous execution of the enemy's decrees against our commerce. It was as a remedy for the latter evil that the Orders in Council were resorted to.Earl Bathurst
 contended, that the diminution of exports alluded to could not be fairly imputed to the Orders in Council; as there was only one month in the quarter, that of Dec., which was subjected to their operation, and in that month there was no diminution compared with the corresponding month in the preceding year. The diminution, therefore, was to be attributed to other causes, and these were the effects of the decrees of the enemy. With respect to America, he denied that the Orders in Council had any effect in producing the embargo, it being now well known that that measure was resorted to in consequence of the new and more rigorous decrees issued by the French government, and the expectation that retaliatory measures would be adopted by the British government. It could not of course be expected, that he should say any thing respecting the present state of the relations between this country and the United states; but this he was entitled to say, that it was the earnest wish of his majesty's ministers to maintain that friendship and good-will with the United States, which was so beneficial to both countries, and to adopt, every measure for that purpose that was consistent with the maintenance of the dearest rights and the best interests of this country.Lord Hawkesbury
ex officio. repeated several of his former objections to the bill, and contended that no necessity had been shewn for making any alteration in the law as established by our ancestors. He particularly objected to that part of the bill which placed the attorney general on a level with a grand jury, and authorized the holding to hail upon information filed ex officio.Lord Erskine
l.l. contended that it was clear, from the documents on the table, that our trade had materially diminished; our exports in the quarter ending the 5th of Jan. 1807, being 5,500,000l.l.Lord Grenville
 did not mean to find fault with the Treaty, although probably its policy or impolicy might at the present moment, in a great measure, depend upon circumstances, of which that house could not be informed, and which, indeed, it would not be proper to communicate. He readily admitted that some such treaty was called for by the claims which his Sicilian majesty had upon the generosity and honour of this country. At the same time, however, there were circumstances connected with the state of Sicily which afforded ground for much anxiety, and he was glad to find that precautionary provisions were inserted in the treaty; but he regretted that in addition to the two fortresses which our troops were to occupy, that of Malazzo was not also directed to be garrisoned by our troops, the latter fortress being of great strength and importance, and kept up at a trifling expence.—The motion for the Address was then put and agreed to.Lord Holland
 observed, that seeing by the votes of the house of commons, that a measure was in progress there, relative to the Claims of Mr. Palmer, he thought it right to propose to institute an inquiry in their lordships' house in the mean time respecting those Claims. He therefore moved to appoint a committee to inquire into the nature of the Agreement entered into by government with Mr. Palmer respecting the improvement of the Post-Office, and the causes of the suspension of Mr. Palmer from the comptrollership of the Post-Office.—A committee was appointed accordingly.Lord Hawkesbury
 contended that the noble secretary was doing that which he himself was reprobating in others; for he was prejudging the question, by the tone he assumed in ultimately deciding on the claims of the catholics. If the Judges decided that the catholics were eligible, he would move that the law be altered on the subject, if his noble friend who made the motion should not think proper to do so.The Duke of Norfolk
904 thought it most extraordinary that the noble secretary of state should wish to keep the house in ignorance, as to what was the law. It was said of catholic priests, that they wished to keep their flocks in ignorance, and prevent them even from reading holy writ; and it might almost be supposed that the noble lord, in wishing to keep the house in ignorance, really cherished and acted upon the same principles. Those noble lords, however, who saw the greater danger in offices being held by catholics, must surely concur in endeavouring to ascertain the law upon this subject, as, if catholics were eligible to the direction of the Bank, the greatest to the state must in the opinion of those noble lords ensure.
904The Earl of Lauderdale
 could not agree to ask the opinion of the Judges unless it was proposed to legislate upon that opinion. It was, besides, a matter of great doubt with him, whether, supposing such a question to be put, the Judges would not tell their lordships that they did not know what was meant by a Roman-catholic; they knew that persons were excluded from certain offices who did not take certain oaths, and it should not be disguised from the public, that this, after all, was the real question in all the discussions on the Catholic question; namely, whether persons who did not take certain oaths should be disqualified from holding certain offices? With respect to this subject he thought it right to declare his opinion, that it would be an event deeply calamitous if the protestant ascendancy were weakened. He held the opinion which had been held by Russel, Somers, lord Hardwicke, and other eminent men; that the support of the protestant church was intimately connected with the maintenance of our civil and religious liberties. He would not say, that under no circumstances ought further concessions to be made to the catholics; but he could not foresee the circumstances in which such concessions would be politic. It should never be forgotten, in considering this subject, that the guards which were necessary to maintain our religious liberties were not the less necessary for the support of our civil liberties. He could see no ground for putting this question to the Judges, unless it was first ascertained that some legislative proceeding was to be founded upon it, nor had he heard of any doubt upon the subject of the interpretation of the act.The Lord Chancellor
905 expressed his surprise that the noble and learned lord had declared opinions now which he did not do when the general question was under discussion,
905Lord Holland
 thought it essentially desirable, that where doubts existed as to the construction of laws about to be continued, those doubts should be removed. No person could argue against the removal of the doubts existing in the case before their lordships, but those who thought it matter of perfect indifference whether catholics should or should not be directors of the bank of Ireland. To those who were adverse to the admission of catholics to the direction, and to those who were friendly to that admission, the removal of the doubts, confirmed by the very proviso of the present bill, for preserving to the catholics the full enjoyment of the rights granted in 1793, by the act of the Irish parliament, was matter of the greatest importance.The Earl of Rosslyn
 opposed putting a question to the Judges, on the ground that no practical good could be derived from it.Lord Harrowby
 thought that in this instance there was clearly a doubt, and that the only way of getting rid of it was to have the opinion of the Judges.Earl Spencer
 saw no ground for putting the question, unless the house should previously determine to found on it some legislative proceeding.Lord Mulgrave
903 thought such a mode of proceeding as that advised by the noble baron wholly unprecedented, or at least highly inconsistent with the usual practice of the house. The bill before their lordships was strictly and directly a financial measure, and on such measures were it necessary to take the opinion of the Judges, the public business would be at a stand, or be protracted to an insufferable length of time. The point which the noble baron's motion involved was only an incidental one, and left the law as it now stood. He was therefore at a loss to conceive with what practical good effect his acceding to the noble baron's motion could be attended. It was open to a catholic, should the proprietors of the bank think proper to select him, to bring his
903Lord Hawkesbury
902 adverted to the bill then before the house for renewing the Charter of the Bank of Ireland, and expressed his surprise that the former charter of the bank had not been laid before, the house. He would, however, shortly proceed to state the grounds of his intended motion. At the time of granting the charter of the bank of Ireland, in 1783, the penal laws against the catholics, that horrid code which all men now joined in condemning, had been happily repealed. There remained, however, disqualifications which prevented catholics from holding any office either in the state or in corporations. In the year 1793 the greater part of these disqualifications were repealed, and with the exception of a few offices, they were allowed to hold generally, offices in the state, and also in lay corporations. They were allowed to be colonels of regiments, governors of fortresses, and to rise to eminent stations in all the professions. The question here was, whether, in allowing them to hold any of these important offices, it was intended to exclude them from the office of governor or director of the bank of Ireland. There was a contrariety of opinion amongst men eminent in the law upon this subject, and thus a considerable doubt had arisen. By the act of 1793, Roman-catholics were allowed to hold the offices mentioned, notwithstanding any statute or bye-law; the word charter was not mentioned, and from this omission it was argued by some eminent men, that catholics being ex-
902Lord Grenville
907906, in reply, observed, that
907906Lord Grenville
914913 rose to make his promised motion relative to the Droits of Admiralty. He observed, that he was not in the habit of troubling their lordships in regard to any subject which he might think proper to present to their attention. Previous to the present, he had taken several opportunities of making inquiries relative to the appropriation of the Droits of Admiralty, the amount of which now in the hands of the crown was certainly greater than it had been at any former period. It was highly important, that the people of this country should know what was likely to become of the property now vested in the crown,
914913The Earl of Suffolk
 thought the question of the greatest importance; the more peculiarly so, since the practice had prevailed for these forty years past, of seizing upon foreign property before the declaration of hostilities. The Droits of Admiralty had increased to an enormous extent; and yet, in arranging the Civil List revenue, no regard had been paid to them, and we had been called upon no less than five times within not a great space of time to pay off the debts contracted on the civil list, besides augmenting considerably that revenue. The question, therefore, was one well worthy of their lordships' attention; and although he would advise his noble friend to withdraw his motion for the present, yet he hoped he would persevere in bringing it again forward in a future session.Lord Holland
 said, that after what he had heard from the noble secretary of state and his noble friend, he had no objection to withdraw his motion, but pledged himself to bring it forward again.The Earl of Suffolk
 did not rise to oppose going into the committee upon this bill, for he sincerely concurred with the noble secretary of state in the sentiments he had expressed with regard to the principle of the measure. He agreed that the measure should be made as conformable as possible with the civil occupations of the subject: he agreed that, however zealous and active the volunteer fore might be, and for which he gave it ample credit, yet it was not wholly to be depended upon; he regretted, however, that the measure was not of greater extent, and more adapted to general principles. After taking an extensive view of the different local forces of the country, the noble earl proceeded to recommend, according to his own system, that instead of ballot, an enrolment of all the young men of the country, from the age of 18 to 25, should take place; that there should neither be substitution nor purchase, but that it should equally affect every class of his majesty's subjects. He concluded with declaring his intention to move some amendments in the committee.The Earl of Selkirk
 had observed with regret, that the volunteers had been undervalued, and that they were said to be badly disciplined; but in that part of the island where he had particular opportunities of knowing what the volunteers were, he was so convinced of their efficiency, that he would cheerfully head them against any force that could be opposed to them by invasion. It was true that they could not be expected to be so well disciplined, or so good, as veteran troops that had been frequently in the field, but there was no comparison to be made between them, and those intended to be raised by the present bill, as he considered the former infinitely superior in every respect. A rumour had prevailed that although the volunteers in Scotland might be good, yet those in the southern part of the island were not so well disciplined; but suppose, for the sake of argument, that it was so, although he did not know it to be true, did it follow that they could not be rendered as efficient if proper measures were to be pursued? He had no doubt that it would be so, but unfortunately no steps were taken to keep up the patriotic spirit among the volunteers; on the contrary, they had been, for some reason or other, cried down.The Earl of Moira
 was not averse to the principle of the bill, as far as it proposed a substitution for the volunteers, which he did not approve of as a means of defence; and although the noble secretary of state would not allow that he meant it as a substitution for the volunteers, yet the plan as he stated it, as well as the nature of the bill, went to produce that effect. But although he approved of the principle, yet the manner of carrying it on did not meet his approbation; for he could have wished it had been assimilated more nearly to the ancient militia, or that his right hon. friend's Training act had been carried forward, which, although liable to some objections, might have been rendered far more beneficial and advantageous to the country. Enrolment was far preferable to compulsory means, such as were to be resorted to by the bill; as it was not to be expected, that the men procured by the latter, would act with such energy against an invading enemy, when under the consideration that they were impelled to serve. The noble lord said, he approved of the observations that had fallen from a noble earl on the cross bench, relative to Spain and Ireland; for although a gleam of hope held out the idea that the glorious struggle of the Spaniards would ultimately prove successful as to them, yet it did not follow of consequence that France would not still be formidable; and if she still should remain so, it behoved ministers to conciliate the Irish, without which, all their schemes of defence in this country were illusory.Lord Holland
918 supported
918The Marquis of Buckingham
 defended the bill from the attack of the noble baron, who had spoke last but two. With respect to the clause to which the noble baron had ascribed such a selfish character, he observed that it merely went to prevent insurances, which had ever been found most mischievous to the individuals who engaged in them. As to what the noble marquis had stated on the operation of the mutiny bill, it must be evident to the house that it was indispensable to preserve a due subordination: if the ranks of the Local Militia were filled from the lowest classes of society, such a check would be absolutely necessary; if they consisted in a great measure of individuals of a superior description, their conduct would be such as to render any exercise of the provisions of the bill superfluous.Lord Mudgrave
 adverted to what had been said on the subject of insurance, and requested noble lords to inquire what had taken place in their own families in these cases. They would find that frequently those of their servants who had not insured were ballotted, while those who had insured, escaped. From this circumstance it might fairly be inferred, that the insurers had some influence in the arrangement of the business.—The house then resolved itself into a committee. The different clauses of the bill underwent a discussion. Eventually they were all agreed to, and the house having resumed, the report was ordered to be received on Monday.The Lord Chancellor
 supported the measure, but did not think with his noble friend (lord Selkirk), that an armed peasantry constituted the best force against an enemy; at the same time that he approved of the general principle, he thought that all adults from eighteen to twenty-one should serve without distinction, without exemption or purchase, and this would inspire them with a military ardour and spirit: this he thought would place the country out of the reach of any hostile attack. His lordship wished to see the militia of Ireland so incorporated with the militia of England, that both should become the actual militia of the united kingdom; he would take the power of granting commissions from the lords lieutenant, and vest it in the king, like the regular army, and army of reserve.Viscount Sidmouth
916 approved most cordially of the measure as grafted
916The Earl of Buckinghamshire
915, on the motion for their lordships' going into a committee on the Local Militia bill, rose and stated, that the principle of this bill went not only to provide for the present exigency, but was intended as a great permanent measure of national defence. In a new system of this kind, it was not expected that it should be devoid of imperfections; but he thought the general policy of the measure could not be denied. It must be confessed, that the present situation of the world was such as demanded all our exertions to place this country in a state of defence which should bid defiance to every attempt that could be made against her. The volunteer system was not one which he should object to as far as it went, but it was a system which could not altogether be depended on, when practically viewed, because its efficacy rested entirely upon the spirit which might prevail at the time, and which might dwindle and evaporate. This con-
915Lord Hawkesbury
 observed, that whatever information the noble earl might have received about the amount, it could only proceed from speculation, no returns having yet been made, as the sales of the property had not been effected. But whenever the returns could be made, and they came regularly before the house, he would then give his opinion on the subject.Lord Hawkesbury
917 explained, that he did
917Lord Hawkesbury
 rose and said, that he was determined to oppose the bill in all its stages. It was a bill which went to give the bishops an increase of discretionary power, which power they were known already to have abused; so that the present bill would only tend to enable them to extend that abuse in proportion as their power was extended.The Earl of Lauderdale
 renewed his objection to the measure. He wished it to be confined to the age between 18 and 25; and thus it would have the effect of training the whole body of the youth of Great Britain to the use of arms. He was anxious the bill should be freed from the inconvenience and difficulties under which other measures of this nature were known by experience to be liable. Above all, he wished to abolish the ballot; with that view he should move an amendment, to omit in the preamble of the bill the words "and balloted."The Earl of Selkirk
 observed, that he held the situation of Post-master General at the time of Mr. Palmer's suspension from the Post-office, and that the cause of such suspension was the contumacy and insubordination of Mr. Palmer. He was of opinion, that Mr. Palmer's conduct while in office was extremely reprehensible, and that the pension he at present enjoyed was fully adequate to the services he had rendered.Lord Walsingham
972 entered into a detail of the circumstances of Mr. Palmer's appointment and dismissal from office, and contended, that while he continued to be the servant of the public it could not be contended but that he was entitled to remuneration for his services; but having been dismissed from that service, in his judgment, he was no longer entitled to claim that remuneration under the agreement in question. With respect to the Opinions of the chief justice of the Common Pleas, and of the attorney general and others, which had been handed about, and stated as favourable to Mr. Palmer's claim, he considered that these were no-
972The Lord Chancellor
 having called the attention of the house to the real question before them, said, he should agree to the adjournment of the debate, because he wanted more information upon it. The noble and learned lord on the woolsack had attacked the opinions of the lord chief justice of the Common Pleas, the attorney general, and other learned persons of great weight in this country, with more virulence and asperity than even he himself had ever done when he was accused of libelling the Judges, and charged with calling one a great blockhead. He was, however, as happy in being forced to defend the Judges as he should be in defending the Bishops on some future occasion. His decided wish was to submit a question or two to the Judges for their opinion, before the matter should be finally decided. Without, therefore, giving any opinion of his own at present upon this case, he could not see how justice could be done to the individual on the one hand, or to the public on the other, without first having the Opinion of the Judges upon the subject; for these reasons he supported the motion of adjournment.Lord Stanhope
973 observed, that as the merits of Mr. Palmer's plan had been so clearly pointed out by noble lords who spoke early in the debate, he would not detain the house by insisting further upon that which appeared to be universally admitted. With respect to the bill under discussion, he had to observe, that the sum claimed by Mr. Palmer did not amount to a fortieth part of those emoluments which had accrued to the country confessedly through the medium of his genius and ability: and, really, in the face of a fact like this, he could not comprehend how the Claim of Mr. Palmer could be resisted upon the ground of his unworthiness. Much had been said respecting the misconduct of Mr. Palmer, but he would ask, to what did it amount? Did it in the smallest degree throw any impeachment upon his honesty? So far from it, that the noble lords who suspended him, declare in their evidence before us, that they never had the slightest reason to doubt his personal integrity. If the noble lords conceived that Mr. Palmer had acted with contumacy
973The Earl of Radnor
 distinguished between the plan of his noble friend (lord Selkirk) and that recommended by the noble earl. His noble friend was for so modelling the measure as to make it operate in training the whole body of the youth of the country to the use of arms. In that plan he willingly acquiesced; but if the amendment of his noble friend should be rejected, he should give his support to the present bill, as approximating next to that which he thought would best accomplish the object which government had in view, and which the nature of the times made indispensably necessary.Lord Sidmouth
 proposed an amendment to secure persons balloted for in the training act, from serving in the local militia. This amendment, after a few words from lord Hawkesbury and lord Stanhope, was also negatived; after which the bill was passed.The Earl of Radnor
960 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of their lordships to the bill now before them. He had bestowed much attention on the nature of Mr. Palmer's Claims, and on the evidence which had been adduced for and against them After due consideration of these points, it was his opinion that the bill ought to be rejected, and he should conclude with a motion to that, effect. The noble lord then went into an examination of Mr. Palmer's contract with Mr. Pitt, which he contended had in view future as well as past services. He also asserted,
960Lord Eliot
968967966965bonâ fide964963l962ll961—My lords; Nothing excited by any speech to which I may on former occasions have listened in this house, comes near to the degree of surprize with which I have heard the motion now offered for your adoption. It is not that my mind was unprepared for some extraordinary procedure. In a manner wholly unprecedented in parliamentary transactions, your attention was called to this subject before you could, consistently with the established principle of your own order, or without infringing your accustomed respect towards the other house, avow any knowledge that the matter was in agitation. Nay, a body of testimony received by a Committee of the Commons was requested from that house at a time when it had not come to any conclusion on the question; and a Committee of your lordships was named to open proceedings on that evidence. This seemed not merely strange; but, could one have permitted oneself to give way to the conception, might have been thought to indicate a fixed resolution of crushing the Claim of Mr. Palmer, howsoever it should be circumstanced. One resisted the suspicion, because it must have appeared to every body that this case, though not in form a judicial question, was in essence strictly so; and the nice regard of your lordships to equity forbad the indulgence of a doubt. What follows? Your Committee give to you the evidence just as
968967966965bonâ fide964963l962ll961The Earl of Moira.
959posse comitatus supported the motion. He was desirous the bill should rest on the principle of the militia act, not on the principle of the modern acts. He wished it to approach in its nature to the old 959posse comitatusEarl Stanhope
l969l felt himself perfectly willing to allow, that a positive bargain had been made in the first instance between government and Mr. Palmer, and he thought that no imputation of unfairness ought to rest upon ministers for not calling upon lord Camden and the bishop of Lincoln for their evidence, since all they could possibly relate would only confirm what there was no intention of disputing, namely, the actual existence of the contract; but though he fully admitted that this bargain had been originally concluded, still he must express himself decidedly of opinion, that the subsequent conduct of Mr. Palmer in office, and his acceptance of 3,000l969lLord Harrowby
 opposed the motion, and after going over many of the circumstances of the case to prove that Mr. Palmer had no just ground of claim, declared that it concerned the dignity of the house that the bill should be got rid of as speedily as possible.Lord Redesdale
posse comitatus observed, that the principle of the old posse comitatusLord Hawkesbury
971lll970—I shall not attempt to say that all the minutiæ of the Evidence of this elaborate case are now fresh in my memory, but, my lords, here is the Opinion given by me in my professional capacity some years since; and thus far I will say, that this Opinion was formed and delivered upon the most strict investigation, and the most serious and patient consideration; and I will pledge my honour as a peer, and my character as a lawyer, on the soundness of its basis and the correctness of its doctrine. And I am the more convinced of its justice when I see subscribed to it the names of such great men, that I hardly dare name myself in comparison. My lords, here is the opinion of my lord Mansfield, one of the judges. And I most solemnly declare that I wish Mr. Palmer might stand or fall by the opinion of the other eleven. I am confident that very few of the noble lords, who oppose this bill, know any of the facts relating to its merits, and I almost fear that they have been prejudiced and are determined to act according to the dictates of that prejudice: I do, therefore, conjure the noble lords not to treat a
971lll970Lord Erskine.
 denied that he was out of order; and said, that he should take the next opportunity afforded him of proving that he meant nothing personal to the most reverend prelate who had spoken on the present occasion.The Earl of Lauderdale
 renewed his objections against the bill. It was a bill of the utmost consequence, both as it affected property and the established church; and above all, as it went to extend the power of the bishops, who already possessed too much. It was, moreover, brought into the house at so late a period of the session, that it was impossible to give it a full and minute consideration. It was yet only read the first time.The Earl of Lauderdale
 perfectly coincided in the observations of his noble friend.Lord Holland
 observed that the prints of the bill were not yet on the table; but when they were, and he hoped it would be to-morrow, he should then, for then only would it be regular, move that the bill be read a second time on Friday.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 complained of the shortness of the notice, and again entered more fully into the mischievous consequences of the increased power which it would confer on the bishops; only one of whom, he believed, would be found to have the spirit to oppose it.The Earl of Lauderdale
 spoke in favour of the motion proposed by his noble friend. He considered several of the arguments adduced by noble lords on the opposite side, as strong reasons to induce him to approve of this clause being inserted in the present bill; particularly what had been stated concerning the great share which the Catholics possessed of the commercial wealth of Ireland.The Earl of Lauderdale
 opposed the motion on the general grounds that no further concessions whatever should, under the present circumstances, be granted to the catholics. He was surprised to see such motions so often brought forward by those who, when they were themselves in power, employed every exertion to deprecate and prevent such discussions. They were the real authors of any ill consequences which might arise from a refusal to accede to such claims.The Earl of Westmoreland
987986 declared, that he had not even heard of the publication alluded to. He had been for some time past a silent observer of what passed on the subject of the catholics, but being thus alluded to, he felt it his duty to state, that he differed in every respect from the noble and learned lord as to the concessions which should be made to the catholics of Ireland. Their situation was one which he had over and over discussed and well considered, and, on the whole, he was satisfied in his own mind, that they
987986The Marquis of Buckingham
 observed, that by a declaration which he held in his hand, it appeared that the Catholics completely renounced all power whatever residing in foreign ecclesiastical persons. After several other observations, he concluded by giving his assent to the motion.Earl Stanhope
 called the noble lord to order, as allowing himself to degenerate into personalities.Lord Harrowby
985984983982981 began by saying, that although he could not presume to follow the noble and learned lord through his legal opinions, he could not refrain from remarking, what appeared to an unlearned man something like a contradiction. He had stated that the bank direction was not opened, nor meant to be opened, to the catholics by the act of 1793, and had nevertheless agreed that refusing to open it to them now would be a breach of public faith. How did he explain this? Why, he asserted that the only possible ground upon which the parliament of 1793 could have omitted to open it, must have been the persuasion that it could not have been opened without a violation of the Bank charter then subsisting. Upon this point, with all due respect for the legal opinion of the noble and learned lord, he was inclined rather to bow to the legal opinion of the noble lord on the woolsack, who asserted that parliament might at that time, during the old charter, and might at any future time, during the prolongation of the charter, remove the restriction upon the admission of catholics, without any violation of the contract; and he was confirmed in this opinion by recollecting what parliament had frequently done with respect to other charters, and particularly to the charter of the East India company. It being, then, far from clear that this opinion was the only ground upon which parliament had not given this privilege in 1793, it remained at least as probable that it was not then given, because parliament did not then intend to give it; and there was an end at once to the supposition of any breach of faith in refusing it now.—The noble lord then stated, that in the shape in which the question was brought before
985984983982981Lord Harrowby
 could not but repeat his former objections to such claims. The more we were ready to grant them, the more encouragement we gave the catholics to come forward with fresh claims, and perhaps to insist upon them. The writers among the catholics of Ireland gave repeated proofs of what were their real intentions. In a book published by one of them, a Mr. M'Kenna, (with whom he believed a noble marquis opposite was on terms of intimacy), it was proposed, that provision should be made for the catholic clergy out of the property of the established church. Was there, then, no danger to be feared for our establishments?Lord Redesdale
 opposed the motion, on the grounds he had already so often insisted upon. It had already abundantly appeared to be the sense of government, and of parliament, to make no further concessions to the catholics of Ireland at the present moment. Indeed, he would go so far as again to repeat, that he should make his stand on the law as it stood at the union. What had been conceded up to that period he was ready to abide by; any thing further he would oppose. No man could deny that admission to the office of bank directors must confer influence, which influence would generate political power. If, therefore, parliament, was wise in opposing claims of higher and more extended power, they would act with equal wisdom in opposing the present claim, which, if granted, must have the tendency it was the desire and determination of parliament to counteract; for these reasons, he must oppose the motion.Lord Hawkesbury
980979 contended that their lordships, by refusing the proposition of his noble friend, would violate the spirit and meaning of the act of 1793. By that statute it was particularly provided, that all Catholics might be elected to the offices of every lay corporation, any statute or bye law to the contrary notwithstanding, excepting the University of Dublin. His lordship argued, that at the time the statute was framed, the legislature must have had in their contemplation charters also; but by their omitting to mention that word, in his opinion (he might be wrong), Catholics could not be admitted under the old charter to the different offices of the Bank of Ireland. But the very reason, be urged, was, that the legislature had not extended this right to Catholic proprietors of the Bank, under the old charter, because the charter having already been granted before that act of parliament, it was not consistent for the legislature, nor agreeable to Magna Charta, that they should alter or destroy a charter which they had already granted. If any man would seriously attend to the preamble of this act of 1793, he would find that it was
980979Lord Erskine
978l.l.977 entered the house, and soon after rose to make his motion; but first presented a petition from the catholic merchants and bankers of the city of Dublin, praying that they might not be excluded from acting as directors and governors of the Irish Bank; which petition was ordered to lie on the table. The noble lord then began by apologising for the delay which he had unintentionally been the cause of, and proceeded to open the proposition which he should have the honour of submitting to their lordships. He begged leave, in the first place, to observe that the house was going to legislate on a matter respecting which they were wholly in the dark; the charter which they were going to renew, not so much as being before them, nor even the terms upon which government were prepared to grant the favour of that renewal. The charter was to be renewed for above twenty years, and what was the return to be made to government for the concession? The band of Ireland was to land one million and a half to government, at a
978l.l.977Lord Grenville
988 in reply, observed, that no arguments had been adduced to do away the powerful facts which had been stated. When the question of Catholic Emancipation was brought forward in the Irish parliament, the Catholics were told it could be better discussed in an imperial parliament. This was held out to them to gain their consent to the union, and they were told now that they must not expect to be placed in a better situation than at the union. Was this the way to conciliate the people of Ireland? He was astonished how the noble secretary of state could reconcile such arguments as he had made use of to himself; or how it could be expected that the people of Ireland could be reconciled to them. He felt confident that the majority of the noble lords were in favour of allowing the Catholic claims, but they kept back their real sentiments. He entreated of them to come forward, and to dismantle themselves of their disguise, as the period was not far off when they would be obliged to do it. It would be like the concessions asked by America before the contest; and would any noble lord say, that at the conclusion of that contest we should not have been happy to have acquiesced in all they had asked from us in the beginning? This case was recent in the mind of every person, and he wished to warn the house against the same error, and not to withhold their favours until it became too late, as was the case with America. They should not judge of the people of Ireland by the acts of a few, but by the conduct of the mass of the people. The arguments of the noble lord (Harrowby) might answer for the year 1778, but would not answer for the present day. All that was proposed to give the Catholics of Ireland was bread by the sweat of
988Lord Grenville,
 rose to observe upon the extreme importance and complexity of the measure. It was one which, in his opinion, required and deserved a minute and mature consideration. It was therefore proper the house should have it before them in a legible and accessible form. His lordship then moved that the bill be printed.Lord Holland
 rose pursuant to notice, to move that the opinion of the Judges be taken upon certain clauses of this bill, which regulated the amount of the notes which the Bank was empowered to issue, and the distribution of any surplus that might arise to the subscribers. According to the accounts on the table, it appeared that the bank had issued notes to a larger amount than that to which by the bill it was limited; and that the subscribers had subscribed only the same sums as before. He was at a loss to see where was the necessity of providing for the distribution of the overplus. This latter clause surely contained as gross a bull as ever was imported from Ireland.The Earl of Lauderdale
 rose to order. He could not sit silent and hear reflections thrown out upon the country to which he belonged, nor would he tolerate them from any noble lord.The Earl of Limerick
 meant no disrespect to Ireland; he had often been rallied himself on the accent he had brought from his country, without being hurt at it. The best authorities considered bulls as the offspring of a quick imagination. But surely an act of parliament was not the most suitable place for exhibiting flights of fancy.The Earl of Lauderdale
 saw no necessity for consulting the Judges on the clauses referred to by the noble baron. As a lawyer, he might take upon him to say that the Judges would give no opinion as to the illegality or obscurity of the clauses; but he was not now delivering the opinion of a lawyer.—After a few words from lord Lauderdale, the motion was negatived without a division.—The bill was then read a third time and passed.The Lord Chancellor
1000 thought the measure pregnant with the most injurious consequences to the agricultural interests of! the country. He admitted that what was used in the distilleries, or in other purposes different from that of immediate sustenance in a year of plenty, might come in aid of the supply in a year of scarcity, and that it might, in consequence of scarcity, become absolutely necessary to stop the distilleries; but, generally speaking, it was much better to leave agriculture and distillation to themselves; if the price of grain became so high in consequence of scarcity that the distillation of it would not yield a profit, the distilleries must of course stop. The high price of grain would also be an encouragement to further cultivation; the produce of which being brought to market would lower the price. The high price of grain might have the effect of inducing the conversion of a portion of grass land into tillage, which would immediately tend to lower the price of grain; and if only a thirtieth part of the grass land in the united kingdom was converted into tillage, he believed there would be no necessity for the importation of grain. He objected to the bill, as tending to lessen the cultivation of grain, and to render the operations of agriculture unsteady and fluctuating. The distilleries, besides, had already stopped,
1000The Earl of Selkirk
 had heard nothing to induce him to withdraw that support which he intended to give to the present bill. He could see no reason why, it the quantity of grain consumed in a year of plenty, for purposes different from necessary sustenance, was to come in aid of a year of scarcity, it might not also come in aid of a deficiency of importation. The great object in this case was the relief of the West India interest, now in a state of great distress, and to prevent that ruin in which they must be involved if something was not done to take off a part of that pressure which weighed so heavily upon them. If this could be done, as he contended it could, not only without injuring the interests of agriculture, but with ultimate benefit to those interests, as the West India Islands must, in the present state of affairs, be in a great measure dependant upon this country for provisions; and if some relief was afforded in the present instance, those connected with them would be the better enabled to purchase supplies, he saw no reason why the present measure should not be carried into effect, merely because it was contrary to a general principle.Lord Holland
 did not think the agricultural interests of the country would be injured by the present measure, and he could not help thinking it hard upon the West India interest, if, whilst compelled to bring their sugar to this country, they should be precluded from the means, which would be afforded by this measure, of disposing of a part of that produce.Lord De Dunstanville
 urged the deficiency in the supply of oats and barley in Scotland, as a strong ground for the present measure.The Duke of Montrose
 contended that the Report of the committee of the house of commons on this subject, did not clearly state the grounds on which the present measure was founded. He condemned the principle of sacrificing the interests of the grower of barley to the grower of sugar, observing that the same principle might be extended in a most injurious manner to different trades and manufactures, and contended, that the throwing back upon the market the quantity of barley which would otherwise be consumed in the distilleries, would necessarily cause a great diminution of price, and greatly injure the agricultural interests of the country.The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought it impolitic to interfere with the agriculture of the country. Let every thing be left to price, and that would be found a much better regulator of the amount of the supply in the market, than any legislative measure. He could not agree with the policy of sacrificing one interest for the benefit of another; it was much better, in his opinion, that competition should be left to its effect. With respect to the West India interest, he thought it would be much better to resort to other measures of a more permanent nature for their relief.Viscount Sidmouth
999 rose and observed, that it was not necessary for him to detain their lordships by any minute explanation of
999Earl Bathurst
996 observed, that it was not the practice to print bills of this sort, nor did he see of what utility it could prove to have the bill printed. He must therefore resist the motion of his noble friend.996Lord Hawkesbury
 contended that the agricultural interests of the country, who were already protected by law in the price fixed, until which, no importation of grain could take place, had no right to complain of the relief now wished to be afforded to another great interest of the country. No one could be more convinced than himself of the importance of supporting the agriculture of the country; he had always considered the agriculture and the navigation of the country, as the two great leading interests on which the prosperity of the country rested. In this case, however, the interests of the whole community required that means should be adopted to prevent the evil consequences of a deficiency of grain arising from there being no importation, and though at present there was every prospect of an abundant harvest, still it should be recollected that the critical period with respect to the future hopes of that harvest had not yet passed. It was in this point of view, added to the actual deficiency which existed in Scotland and Ireland, that he supported the present measure.—The Bill was then read a second time.Lord Hawkesbury
1001 had not heard any necessity shewn for the present measure; nor could he agree, that the West India interest ought to be relieved at the expence of the agricultural interests of the country. With respect to importation of grain, he was of opinion, that the land now in cultivation would, if properly managed,
1001The Earl of Albemarle
l. took occasion to reprobate the manner in which, of late years, grants of money were brought before their lordships, and which went to deprive, their lordships of all power of inquiry into the causes of such grants. These grants were made part of the Appropriation act; and as their lordships could make no alteration in the act without disturbing the arrangement of the supplies for the public, they were therefore debarred from making any amendment at all in the present act. This act contained the grant to the college of Maynooth, and another of 1,500,000l.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that it was a subject of great importance, and that the affairs of the East India company ought to be inquired into; for such was their management, that he believed it would be better for this country that the East India company should lose their possessions in that quarter of the globe altogether; and it might be desirable that such an event should happen soon, rather than increase our grants of large sums of the public money.The Earl of Suffolk
 did not wish to protract the present discussion, but he must observe, that if the house were thus to be treated, if they were thus to proceed without necessary information, they had better shut their doors at once than be degraded in the public estimation.—The motion was then negatived without a division.Lord Holland
l.l.l.l.1088l.l.l.1087 then rose, and stated that he trusted the house would excuse any omission he might make in delivering his sentiments; for he felt the pressure of great age and bodily infirmity. It would become him, in the best manner he could, to give to the house the reasons which had led to the introduction of the present bill, and then to give a description of the provisions contained therein. Their lordships would take into consideration
l.l.l.l.1088l.l.l.1087The Bishop of London
l.l.1089 considered the arguments alledged by the right rev. prelate,
l.l.1089The Earl of Moira
 represented the great difficulty which would attend any attempt to gain the desired information.The Archbishop of Canterbury
l.l. rose for the purpose of making a few observations, in respect to what had been stated by the noble viscount, concerning the situation of distressed curates. Two years ago he had interested himself on that subject, and had received nearly two hundred letters from persons of that class of the profession, but he had now lost them; but there were statements amongst them, which would have caused a benevolent heart to bleed. One of these letters accidentally was preserved (his lordship here read it); it stated that the rector possessed 1000l.l.The Earl of Suffolk
 felt anxious to convince the house, that the measure proposed was neither oppressive in its operation, nor a violation of the interests of the Church. The power which it gave to the bishops was only similar to that with which they were invested in the earliest times of the constitution of the Church. He cited the case of a bishop of Worcester, who was rebuked by the Pope, for not allowing a sufficient compensation to vicars temporal—curates, as they were then designated in his diocese. Indeed, up to the Reformation, and subsequent to that period, such power was vested in the ordinary; and the very evil now sought to be redressed, was in a great degree to be traced to the enactment of a legislative provision, which, for purposes then perhaps apparently wise, deprived the bishops of such power, and substituted an act of parliament as the mode of regulation. The right rev. prelate concluded by observing, that he would be the last man in that house who would support the measure, if it in the remotest degree trenched upon the security or interests of the Established Church, but at the same time that he gave his support to the principle, he did by no means pledge himself to accede to any one of its provisions.The Archbishop of Canterbury
1092 took the opportunity of saying, that it was his wish to restore those powers which originally were vested in the ordinary, and of which in times of violence they were deprived. His own opinion on this bill was in unison with the two decisions of the other house of parliament, and a previous one of their lordships; but still, though he supported
1092The Lord Chancellor
l. reprobated the measure. It violated the security of the property of the church, at the same time that it weakened the interests of religion. It was with young men in that sacred calling as it was with those in the other respectable professions of life. Deprive them of the stimulus to professional advancement and the spur to honourable ambition, and the legislature would deaden their industry and activity, both in the exertion of the talents, and the practice of the duties, which led to the highest honours in that and the other professions. In applying that principle to the present bill, he contended, that to give the young curate such an actual provision for all the enjoyments of life, as this bill gave, went to deaden every motive of fair ambition, and every inducement to deserve, by his exemplary exertions, the highest honours of the Church. He had a more paramount objection to this bill, inasmuch as it legislated on the morality of the country. The unerring testimony of experience convinced him that such precepts were worse enforced, if not totally perverted, by an act of parliament. The natural instinct, of man led him to the fulfilment of his duties. The parent knew, and would practise, his duties to his child; so would the child to his parent; but, introduce an act of parliament for such regulation, and its introduction would not fail to dissolve the cement of the social feelings, and poison the very sources of human happiness. Besides, there appeared no necessity for this measure, as there was on their table neither addresses from curates, complaining of insufficient salaries, or from parishioners complaining of a neglect of duty in their rectors. But, perhaps, the great origin of the evil would be found in the frequency of ordination, and in calling to that profession such numbers of young clergymen as it was impossible to provide for. In such case the evils ought not to be visited on the beneficed clergy, but should be attributed to that glut of the commodity which the reverend prelates themselves occasioned. He also opposed the bill as laying a great weight on the possessor of a small living, at the same time that it affected the rector, with 2000l.The Earl of Lauderdale
 vindicated the present measure, as justified by the laws of ancient and modern times. There was some reason to apprehend that the ecclesiastical law, without any act of the legislature, permitted the bishops to interfere with the disposal of benefices, for the purpose of having the service duly performed. The right by which all livings were held, he contended, was conditional. He argued from the canons and the statutes for centuries, that it had always been deemed the lawful right of the bishop to appropriate a part, and sometimes the whole, as a remuneration to the resident and officiating clergyman.Lord Harrowby
 opposed the motion, as it then stood, and proposed an amendment, omitting the words 'distinguishing those, and in that shape he had no inclination to oppose the motion.Lord Harrowby
1090 attributed the present measure to the reverend prelate who had spoken first in debate, and he regretted much that his duty obliged him to differ in opinion from one he so highly esteemed and venerated. But he was conscientiously bound to declare that he was inimical to the principle of the present bill. He could not consider the relief given to the curate as permanent; the rector might return to perform his duty, and then the increased salary of the curate would be taken from him, and he must return to his
1090Viscount Sidmouth
 expressed his concurrence in the motion as proposed by the noble earl; after which the house divided: Contents 16; Non-contents 28. Majority against the motion 12.Viscount Sidmouth
1091 considered the present measure calculated to create great dissatisfaction and uneasiness amongst the beneficed clergy. He did not conceive that its advocates had made out a case, or that any evil was proved, calling for a remedy which so vitally affected the
1091The Earl of Buckinghamshire
l. previous to their lordships entering into any discussion upon this bill, moved, "That a Return be made of all the benefices in the kingdom of 400l.The Earl of Buckinghamshire,
1086 contended, that in respect to the grant made to Maynooth college, nothing had been done upon this occasion, but what the legislature had done with regard to former grants of this nature to the same college. When the last grant was voted by the house of com-
1086Lord Hawkesbury
 rose to move an instruction to the committee. In his opinion, whatever came under the description of the object which the bill had in view, might be embraced by it. Its object was to afford relief to resident curates, where that relief was justly required, and where, it might be easily procured. His wish now was to extend that relief to curates appointed by lay impropriators, and his lordship concluded with moving an instruction to the committee to that effect.Lord Sidmouth
 expressed his thanks to the noble baron for the pains he had taken on this subject, and his readiness to co-operate with him in the prosecution of his object.The Archbishop of Canterbury
1094 also gave his hearty concurrence to the motion, and declared that no man could be more anxious than he was to see the condition of the inferior clergy improved. It was not only the comfort of those respectable persons he had in view, but the improvement of the morals of the commonalty, which improvement was intimately connected with the ease and comfort of the clergy. Perhaps,
1094The Earl of Moira
l.l.l.l. pursuant to a notice which he gave yesterday, rose to submit a motion to their lordships, which was suggested to him by some observations that had been made during the discussion of this question. It was agreed, and seemed to be wished on all hands, that something should be done towards improving the condition of the inferior clergy. It had all along been his opinion, that the house was proceeding to legislate on a matter respecting which they had nothing like adequate information before them. This want of due information he felt very anxious to supply; and the object of his present motion was, to endeavour to ascertain the number of livings which were under 150l.l.l.l.Lord Harrowby,
1095 was sorry he could not assent to the proposition of his noble friend. That proposition broached an entirely new principle, which was not connected with the present bill. It should therefore be introduced in a separate bill, and stand upon its own merits. The principle of the present bill was not new, but had already been, twice at least, recognized and sanctioned by parliament.1095Lord Hawkesbury
 approved of the motion, and assured his noble friend that every thing should be done by him to give effect to his laudable intentions and endeavours.—The question was then put and agreed to. After which the order of the day was read for the house to resolve itself into a committee on the bill, whenLord Hawkesbury
1096 reprobated the idea of circumscribing the privileges and powers of that house, by conforming to any understanding that might be supposed to have been agreed to in another place. There was no end to the extent to which such a mode of reasoning might be carried, if it was sufficient to say, that upon an understanding between ministers in another place, such and such a measure was to be
1096The Earl of Lauderdale
 and Lauderdale contended, on the contrary, that the hardships of the increased duty would fall almost entirely on the seller, who, from urgent circumstances was compelled to transfer his properly. Indeed, the principle of the bill was in every respect iniquitous and unjust.—After a few words from lord Hawkesbury, the house resolved itself into a committee, en the bill; after which, the report was received, and the bill was ordered to be read a third time to-morrow.Lords Rosslyn
 rose, and repeated his objections against inserting in this act the Grant to the college of Maynooth, and that to the East India company. The change in the amount of the former grant, he saw no reason to justify. It was a deviation from the principle upon which the grant had first been made, and upon which it had been augmented in the last session of parliament. He wished to learn from the noble secretary of state, by what inducements government had been led to diminish the grant, and thus depart from the principle which had first suggested it to the adoption of government, and the sanction of the last session of parliament. That principle, the world knew, was the principle of so far conciliating the catholics of Ireland.Lord Holland
 inveighed against the principle of this bill in the severest terms. It went to oppress those who were already labouring under circumstances of distress and difficulty, by increasing the duties on deeds of conveyance, which besides must fall with peculiar hardship on the proprietors of land. The bill would also severely affect attorneys, and he should never approve of any principle of taxation that tended to press with peculiar weight on any particular class of the community.Lord Holland
 observed, that under the urgent exigencies of the present moment, it was necessary to have recourse to every possible source of revenue. The principle of the present bill had long been acknowledged and acted upon by parliament, and the increase of the duties in the present instance was only a further extension of that principle. That principle did not bear harder on the landed than on the commercial interest; on the contrary, it must weigh heavier on the latter than on the former, as transfers of property were more frequent among commercial men than among landed proprietors. It moreover would operate equally on the buyer and the seller.Lord Hawkesbury
 acknowledged, that the grant had in some measure been diminished; but it was upon an understanding that no larger a sum should be granted I than was necessary to complete the buildings that were then commenced at this establishment. It was originally intended that accommodation should be provided for a certain number of students; but when it was proposed to carry that accommodation to an unlimited extent, it was thought proper to stop at what was first, conceived to be an adequate provision.Lord Hawkesbury
 disavowed any such design on his part, and only adverted to the principle upon which the measure had; elsewhere been adopted, and not to any particular understanding between individuals of his majesty's government on the subject.—The bill was then reported.Lord Hawkesbury
 rose to express his disapprobation of the principle of the bill, and of the hardships to which it would expose persons already labouring under a multiplicity of distresses. The noble earl instanced the case of some tenants of his own, upon whom he knew it would press with peculiar severity.The Earl of Suffolk
 would not detain their lordships with a repetition of the objections to the principle of the bill, which he continued to consider as most iniquitous. He should then, however, in the most regular and public manner, enter his protest against it.The Earl of Lauderdale
amende honorable11081107 did not rise to oppose the bill. Burdened as the country already was with a load of taxes, its situation was perhaps such as, under the present circumstances, to call for and justify some addition to that burden. His object in rising now was to avail himself of the privilege of a peer of parliament, and offer some advice to his majesty's ministers which the present posture of affairs suggested to his mind. He hoped it might not be deemed irregular or unparliamentary to offer that advice, and put a few questions to his majesty's government, at a moment when parliament was voting supplies for the current services of the year. In stating, however, his opinion to the house, it was by no means his wish to draw any answers from the ministers which they should not deem it perfectly proper and safe to make;
amende honorable11081107The Duke of Norfolk
 bore testimony to what had been urged by lord Hawkesbury by saying, that he had himself, when the Residence bill was before the house, proposed the clause in favour of the curates which had been alluded to; and he recollected, that the noble and learned lord had then particularly objected to it, on the ground that it should be the object of a separate bill. It had now been introduced in a separate bill, and he thought that bill should pass, for if it did not, he was afraid this would be the last time it would be attempted.The Bishop of London
1114 said, that thus called on, he must beg leave to say a few words. He acknowledged he had opposed the clause alluded to, and which had been brought in by the rev. prelate who spoke last, and he had already mentioned it this evening, and taken blame to himself on that account. He then very much wished the Residence bill should pass, and he and other noble lords who thought with him, were apprehensive that if that clause was tacked to it, the bill would be lost. He owned they had been mistaken, but that was the real cause of their objection. He observed his noble friend (lord Hawkesbury) smiled at what he said, but if he meant it in doubt of what he said, he would not bear it; for he had already expressly mentioned the circumstance before either the noble lord or the rev. prelate had alluded to the clause in question. The noble lord had said, that a right hon. and learned gent, who brought in the Residence bill, had pledged himself that a separate bill should be brought in for the better provision of curates. If any man could alter his sentiments on the present bill, it would
1114The Lord Chancellor
 said that he was perfectly satisfied with the principle of the bill, but there were some of the clauses which he thought would be attended with injurious effects, and would introduce vexation and mischief; he should therefore vote that the bill be rejected.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 objected to it on the ground he had done yesterday, relative to the alteration in the grant to Maynooth College.Lord Holland
1110 still retained his objections to the bill, on which, however, he should
1110Lord Holland
1111 could by no means assent to a principle laid down by his noble friend; he meant the guaranteeing the integrity of the Spanish empire. He considered the Spanish possessions in South.
1111The Duke of Norfolk
 rose to call the attention of the house to certain rumours that had gone abroad, of an intention to erect a number of buildings, so as to obstruct the view of the park, which contributed so much to the pleasure and the health of the inhabitants of the metropolis, while it would materially injure the property of several individuals. He was at a loss what mode to adopt, in order to bring the matter under their lordships' consideration; but as it regarded the welfare of the public, he must think there was some mode or other of submitting it to the consideration of parliament.Earl Grosvenor
 and the earl of Lauderdale insisted that it was highly unparliamentary to interfere in the private concerns of the crown. The duke of Norfolk observed, that if the noble lord should hereafter contrive to bring the question before the house, he would pledge himself to prove that the public were more interested in the property of the crown than in the property of any individuals.The Lord Chancellor
1112 expressed himself as desirous as any man could be to provide amply for every degree of the clergy, so as to enable them to maintain the respectability and dignity of their sacred character; but he was much afraid this bill would not answer the end which it proposed. He clearly foresaw it would be productive of numerous vexations, which, instead of promoting the interests of religion, would rather tend to injure them. When the Residence bill passed that house, it had been proposed by a short clause, to make a provision for curates; but that clause had been rejected, and he was perhaps as much to blame as any other person for the failure of that clause. Viewing, however, the present bill in the light he
1112The Lord Chancellor
, in consequence of this appeal, rose and said, that the diocese over which he presided was so small, as not to furnish a sufficient number of instances by which any criterion for judgment could be established. He could, however, assure their lordships, that this was a measure to which he had paid great attention, with a view of extending all the relief, comfort, and convenience possible to those meritorious and active labourers in the vineyard for whom provision was intended by the present measure; he regretted, however, that the bill in its present form was completely inadequate to accomplish the object which their lordships had in view, and, above all, that it could not have that immediate and beneficial effect expected by the liberal and humane right reverend prelate, who chiefly supported it. Their lordships must be aware that nothing could tend so effectually to the support and maintenance of the established religion as union amongst its clergy. This was an object so desirable, that every well wisher of the church must feel strongly inclined to encourage and support it; but surely the proper line to be followed was not that which the clauses of this bill went to introduce, under the sanction of the legislature. The curate and the rector would be set at variance in the first instance, and then their superiors were to be involved in the contest by the power of appeal; so that from beginning to end there would be nothing but one scene of confusion, distrust, and jealousy. He certainly was as liberally disposed as any man towards the inferior classes of the clergy, but until some effectual plan should be introduced for affording them complete relief, he was not inclined to disturb the present order of things.The Bishop of Rochester
 coincided with the right reverend prelate in his view of the subject.The Bishops of Hereford and Carlisle
1113 regretted the necessity which he felt of dissenting from the right rev. prelates who had just delivered their opinions; but, painful as it was for him to be in that situation, he still felt it incumbent on him to give his feeble support to this bill, because he was convinced
1113The Bishop of London
l termed it a narrow-minded, parsimonious saving; and was sorry to find, that after ministers had expressed their wishes that all terms of asperity against the Catholics should be avoided, as well as every thing that might tend to irritation among them, they should have coupled two such transactions, as the sending back to Ireland, loaded with honours, a man, who had in a most illiberal manner always shewn himself a bitter enemy of the Catholics, and this paltry saving of 3,500lThe Earl of Lauderdale
 supported the bill upon the same grounds he had advanced upon a former debate.Lord Harrowby
 condemned the alteration in the grant.The Duke of Bedford
 renewed his objections to the bill at some length.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 supported the bill, and said, that the right hon. and learned gent. who brought in the bill for the residence of the clergy, had expressly declared that a better provision should be made for the curates, by a subsequent measure, and under that impression he had supported that bill. When that bill was brought into the house of lords, a clause to make a better provision for curates was then proposed, and the noble and learned lord was one of those who particularly objected to it; so that he thought the present bill ought to pass, in order that a proper provision might be made for so large and deserving a body of the clergy as the curates.Lord Hawkesbury
, for the reasons he had before assigned, defended the alteration.Lord Hawkesbury
1109 gave full credit to the candid and circumspect manner in which, the noble duke had delivered his opinions upon points of such delicacy. The noble duke was perfectly regular in the mode he
1109Lord Hawkesbury
1129 adverted to a former statement of the noble secretary of state, with respect to the disposition of the court of Stockholm to give effect to the system adopted in the Orders in Council, and observed, that it might have been expected by this time that some engagement would have been entered into, or that some treaty would have been signed, which might have been laid on the table of the house, and which would have been a better proof of the dispositions of that court.
1129The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the noble secretary of state appeared to have misconceived a part of what he had said with respect to the operation of the Orders in Council on our intercourse with Spain. Spain, in her present anomalous state, was not, it was true, an enemy; but still she could not be considered as a neutral, and thus, under the operations of the Orders in Council, her ports would be blockaded with respect to the rest of the world. What he was therefore anxious to learn from ministers was, whether they intended to deal, upon this occasion, in the sale of licences, which he considered a narrow and unwise policy; and whether they intended to revoke those Orders as far as they regarded the ports of Spain.Lord Holland
ll adverted to the document upon the table, containing a statement of the exports and imports at the port of London for the quarter ending the 5th of April 1808, to shew the decrease, compared with the corresponding quarters of 1807; the exports of British manufactures in the latter being 5,100,000llThe Earl of Lauderdale
 expressed a hope that the narrow policy of taking possession of a few ships, would not be the only stimulus to induce ministers to afford assistance to Spain. He considered the cause of the Spaniards entitled to all the aid and protection this country could afford.The Earl of Darnley
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation given by the noble secretary of state.Lord Holland
1127 wished to be informed whether any engagement had yet been entered into with Sweden, to give effect on their part to the Orders in Council. A noble friend of his (lord Grenville) had formerly given notice of a motion to address his majesty to revoke those Orders, but had been induced to withdraw it in consequence of the negociations that were pending. Although
1127Lord Holland
1128 said, with respect to Sweden, that the most satisfactory assurances had been received from the court of Stockholm, of the disposition of that
1128Lord Hawkesbury
1130 observed, that the amount of the exports and imports was no criterion in itself; the question was, were they greater or less than they would have been if the measure of the Orders in Council had not been resorted to? With respect to what had been said by the noble lord (Holland), he now clearly understood the object of that noble lord to be to ascertain, whether it was the intention of ministers to revoke the Orders in Council so far as regarded the ports of Spain? He could only state, that if the noble lord would suspend his curiosity for a few days, he would find that ministers had not omitted the consideration of this part of
1130Lord Hawkesbury
1139 rose to call the attention of the house to the critical situation in which we now stood with respect to Spain. It was generally understood that a large armament was to be sent to assist the patriotic exertions of that nation in resisting the tyranny that would oppress its liberty, and in enabling it to assert its independence. Who was to command that expedition? Its fate might, perhaps, be closely connected with the auspices and command under which it was to serve. He did not know that we had now any responsible minister. In former administrations Mr. Pitt, lord Sidmouth, and latterly lord Grenville, stood forward
1139The Earl of Suffolk
11411140, in his majesty's name, delivered the following Speech.11411140The Lord Chancellor
