353433Ducit opes animumque, ferro.Per damna, per coedes, ab ipso 3231 rose. He said he would not detain the house for a longer period than it was usual for gentlemen, placed in a similar situation with his, to claim their indulgence, and would therefore, without further preface or apology, proceed to state such observations as occurred to him on the Speech they had just heard read, and which would form part of the Address he should have the honour to move.—His majesty had expressed his confidence, that his parliament would concur in giving every aid in their power which could contribute to the firm and vigorous support of the war in which we were engaged. With such views as they originally entertained on the subject of this war, with such views as they had continued to take of it, it would indeed be a singular inconsistency to depart from them at a moment like the present, and refrain from giving his majesty an assurance that they were ready to give him all the assistance required, and which the extraordinary nature of the case demanded. The leading topic in the Speech referred to the state of Spain, and whoever looked to the actual situation of affairs in that country, and the nature of those occurrences that led to the connection with our own, would agree with him in the propriety of reducing into practical use that excellent maxim, that 'vigorous war led most directly to safe and honourable peace.' Our connection with Spain was formed, for the
353433Ducit opes animumque, ferro.Per damna, per coedes, ab ipso 3231The Hon. Frederick Robinson
54535251504948474645444342414039 The awful circumstances, Mr. Speaker, under which the present session of Parliament commences, would in themselves, without even his Majesty's direction, have called our attention to them, and produced, I am sure, in the mind of every man, a wish to offer to the House such opinions and counsels as are. likely to tend to the honour and security of the
54535251504948474645444342414039Mr. Ponsonby.
636261605958575655 then rose. He observed that the declaration with which the rt. hon. gent. concluded his speech, that he would not oppose the Address that had been so ably moved by his hon, friend, and his farther declaration, that the various points on which he had briefly touched should become the subjects of subsequent discussion, released him from the great and irksome task of entering minutely into an, examination of the statements which the right hon. gent. had ventured to make. The right hon. gent. seemed particularly impressed with the conviction, that in the cause intrusted to his majesty's government (and never was there a cause more deeply interesting), there had been shewn a total want of wisdom and vigour, and that this country and Europe had no chance of salvation but by a change of the men who were to conduct the affairs of the state in the present most critical and important period. Whatever might have been the want of vigour in his majesty's present ministers, so much complained of by the right hon. gent., he believed the country would not have much more to hope for if the reins of government should fall into the hands of the right hon. gent. and his friends, who had given such ample proofs of zeal and anxiety for the welfare and interests of the country, by deserting all those, who were then allied for the defence of the cause of Europe. No great parliamentary recollection was necessary to carry back the mind to those periods, when the rt. hon. gent, and his
636261605958575655Lord Castlereagh
90 had not intended to trouble the house with any observations upon this occasion, and should have contented himself with a silent vote, if it had not been for certain observations, which had been thrown out by the right hon. gent, who had just sat down, with respect to the question between America and this country. That right hon. gent, had stated, that the British Orders in Council of the 11th Nov. 1807 had been the cause of the American embargo; and, in support of that statement, quoted an assertion to that effect, contained in a late report from a committee of the American Congress, and the evidence of a respectable gentleman at the bar of the house last session, shewing, that he had communicated, by letter to America, the intention of the British government, to issue such Orders in Council. As to the first ground of the right hon. gent.'s statement, he had only to observe, that it had been declared, in the American legislature, by one of the most respectable members of that body, eminently distinguished for his eloquence, his attainments, and patriotism, Sir. Randolph, that,
90Mr. G. H. Rose
91 stated in justification of the Ordnance Department, that it was not from any neglect in this department, that any deficiency of ordnance appointments had been felt in the expedition to Portugal, as every, necessary supply could have been instantaneously afforded,
91The Hon. Ashley Cooper
 in explanation stated that there had been no deficiency of artillery horses in that branch of the public service; and that a sufficiency of artillery horses could have been procured only by signing an order for them, if it had been thought adviseable to send out any with the expedition.Lord Castlereagh
 censured the conduct of ministers in not having sent a larger force of cavalry along with sir Arthur Wellesley.General Matthew
787776757473727170 in reply, re-
787776757473727170Mr. Secretary Cunning,
 acquainted the house, that the house had been at the house of peers, at the desire of the lords commissioners, appointed under the great seal, for holding this present parliament; and that the Lord High Chancellor, being one of the said Commissioners, made a Speech to both houses of parliament; of which, to prevent mistakes, he had obtained a copy; which he read to the house, and for which we refer to our report of the proceedings of the lords, see p. 1. After the Speaker had finished the Speech,The Speaker
 condemned the general system of politics, observed by his majesty's ministers with respect to the dispute with America.Mr. A. Baring
8988878685848382818079 I cannot help doubting the sincerity of that congratulation of the right hon. gentleman on the moderation of his opponents this night, but I hope that will not be any inducement to gentlemen to give up any points which are necessary to be discussed. I totally deny that my right
8988878685848382818079Mr. Tierney.
 animadverted in severe terms upon the Answer returned by his majesty's ministers to the Address of the city of London on the Convention in Portugal.Mr. Alderman Combe
696867666564 said it was not his intention to go into a general view of the subject which was before the house, upon the Speech from the throne, nor into all the topics that had been brought forward by the noble lord who had just preceded him, a great part of whose speech had been taken up in planning imaginary campaigns, in order to shew how ridiculous they would be. But there were some points to which he could not help adverting; and, first, as to the Convention of Portugal. He wished the house to be quite sure it understood what it was called upon to do in voting this Address; because, from the speech of the noble lord, it appeared, that we were congratulating the throne for that Convention; and as far as it embraced the consideration of the valour and the skill of the gallant officer who commanded and the steadiness and courage of the men who fought at the battle of Vimiera, the house had indeed good reason and ample matter for rejoicing— it was in that view it, an event which filled every heart
696867666564Mr. Whitbread
383736 rose to second the Address, It is highly satisfactory to me
383736Mr. S. R. Lushington
 replied, that general Stewart was certainly still in legal possession of his office, for which if any blame was attributable, it was attributable to himself (lord C.) alone. But he could inform the hon. gent, that from the moment that officer quitted Portsmouth, he declined receiving any of the emoluments which arose from his civil situation. With respect to sir A. Wellesley, he did certainly consider that he was at the present moment in possession, and discharging the functions of the Chief Secretaryship for Ireland.Lord Castlereagh
 gave notice, that on Friday next he would submit to the house a motion relative to the Conduct of his royal highness the Duke of York, Commander in Chief of the British Army, with respect to the granting of Commissions, the making of Exchanges, and the raising of Levies for the Army.Mr. Wardle
 was anxious to be informed, by the noble lord opposite, as to the situation of two very respectable members of that house. He wished to know whether that noble lord's gallant relation, general Stewart, still retained his office of Under Secretary of State for the War Department; and whether sir A. Wellesley still retained his office of Chief Secretary for Ireland? If not, be wished to be informed at what period those two distinguished officers discontinued to hold those situations?Mr. Whitbread
 made a few observations on the inconvenience to which the public service must be liable, by allowing the persons holding such offices, and particularly that of sir A. Wellesley, to be so long absent from their duty.Mr. Whitbread
sub furca,92l. took the opportunity of briefly expressing his sentiments on the subject. In concurring with the Address, he by no means understood himself to be precluded from making any future observations on the various topics which it embraced. For instance, while he heartily concurred in the propriety of rejecting the terms upon which the last offer of negotiation was made, he by no means meant to declare it as his opinion, that this country ought never to consent to the commencement of another negotiation, while Spain should continue in the hands of the French government.—On the subject of Sweden also he conceived that there was much room for further remark. We might probably be paying our 100,000sub furca,92l.Mr. W. Smith
116115 pursuant to notice, rose, to submit to the consideration of the house a motion for the re-appointment of the Committee of Finance. If he had barely to propose the revival of the same Committee, composed of the same members and consisting of the same number, as in the last session, he was sensible, that it would not be necessary for him to take up much of the time of the House; because he could not conceive any possibility of opposition to such a motion. But, as he meant to suggest an alteration
116115The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 observed, that the statement of the right hon. gent, had placed the house under very aukward circumstances; because, if the Committee should be reduced as proposed, after the stigma cast upon it by the observations of the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes), it would be quite impossible, that the public should have any confidence in its proceedings. If the opinion should go abroad, that the Committee had been revived under any suspicious circumstances, the impressions it would make would not easily be removed. It did not become that house to receive a list of the Committee it was to appoint, from any particular member, or set of men; neither from his right hon. friend nor from any other individual in the house. The public would expect, that such a Committee should be selected from all descriptions of persons in the house. But here he would observe, that upon the subject of this Committee much misapprehension seemed to pervade the public, as if a great pecuniary saving was to result from its labours, and consequently a sensible relief from the present burthens. This was an expectation which he did not think would ever be realized. Many salutary retrenchments and useful reforms might no doubt be the consequence, but, in point of an immediate or sensible relief, in a pecuniary way, to the public, little of that description was to be looked to. Me did not mean to say that abuses did not exist that might demand reform; and if the Committee was to be revived, it would be better to re-appoint it just as it stood before, than force the house to the invidious task of discussing the merits of particular men. But for his part, he was not quite sure it was necessary to re-appoint the Committee at all. In all events, he thought it would be better to give the house a day for examining the reports already made, and afterwards re-appoint the Committee, if it should appear necessary.Mr. Yorke
124 stated, that most of the longest debates had taken place in the Committee upon the subject of certain
124Mr. Denis Browne
125 observed, that if it was
125Mr. Calvert
129128 in reply to the arguments that had been adduced against his proposition, noticed a threat of an hon. gent, to put some one on the bench where he sat, on their defence. If it was to himself he alluded, he could assure him that he could not do him a greater favour than to make any charge against him the subject of early investigation. [Here Mr. Moore signified that he did not allude to the right hon. gent.] If then, continued he, the hon. gent, alludes to any of
129128The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 said, that the difference between his noble friend's (lord H. Petty's) list, and that of the right hon. gent, was, that the noble lord's list had not been objected to as one of which the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes) refused to act as Chairman: but the present list had the misfortune to be of that description. As to the noble lord having selected 19 out of the 21 names from the side of the house on which he himself sat, that was by no means an unnatural proceeding, he being no stranger to the fact, that the right hon. gent, and his friends were not remarkable for their attachment to reform.Mr. Ponsonby
132 I think it is a novel mode of procedure to put questions to his majesty's government, as to the lincof conduct they should adopt. I can assure the hon. gent, and the house, however, that there has been no opinion given in the dispatches received by government as to the transactions in Spain, which we shall not be happy to communicate. The dispatch he alludes to was not a dispatch which that gallant and much-lamented officer considered as an official one when he framed it; although at the same time he thought it right to submit it to government, to give what parts of it they thought proper to the public. His majesty's government have always advised his majesty to make
132Lord Castlereagh.
 That hon. officer expressed no wish for a full publication.Lord Castlereagh.
 As it may appear that the lamented general may have communicated his exact sentiments at the moment these dispatches were written, by their becoming hereafter public, I think it may be necessary to state what he said to me at the time he sent them off. He said he was extremely hurried at the time of sending home the dispatches; and he had not leisure to write so fully as he could have wished; and therefore as he had endeavoured to do his best in regard to the communication he was making, it must be entirely confidential, leaving it at the same time to government to publish such parts of them as they might think right. Ho rather expressed a wish that they should be published, for if it transpired that he had sent home dispatches, and nothing was to be published, it might appear extraordinary; at the same time leaving it entirely to the discretion of government. Certainly, some parts of the dispatches alluded to are of a delicate nature, but, as the greater part of them do so much credit to that great and lamented character, I am satisfied my noble relation would have published them more fully, if he had been aware of the anxiety of that general himself, and if the hurry of business had permitted him to discriminate with accuracy what might be made public without detriment to the public service. I trust, therefore, that the greater part of these dispatches are such as ministers may approve for publication, as I am satisfied that it will be to the army the greatest gratification they can receive.General Stewart.
133 I certainly did not understand that the hon. and lamented officer had expressed any such anxious wish upon the subject: if I had thought so, I would certainly have endeavoured to discharge, to the utmost, that duty which appears due to his memory. I can,
133Lord Castlereagh.
 said, that nothing had occurred in this debate which should be borne in memory after this night.The Speaker
 bore testimony to the diligence, zeal, and ability of thy hon. chairman of the Committee. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer should persist in his nomination, and the late chairman should decline to act, the right hon. gent, would not find any other gentleman to sit in the chair. He had only to add, that the hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Wharton) had given himself a specimen of the contrariety of opinions which had prevailed in the Committee.Lord A. Hamilton
120 expressed his acquiescence in the opinion delivered by Mr. Bankes. Without arrogating any superior pretensions, he wished to declare to
120Lord Henry Petty
 said, a right hon. friend of his (Mr. Sumner), had stated, that some alterations had taken place on the last day of the meeting of the Committee. He believed there was some trifling amendment made in one part, of a few words only, "that it might be expedient to reduce the salary of some, and to abolish others;" but this was done alter very ample discussion, and in making it there could be no colourable imputation of surprise on the Committee, hi the treatise which had been alluded to, there was a dissertation on the increase of the influence of the crown, which, eloquent as it was, contained sentiments of which he could not approve, and he therefore gave it his decided and hearty opposition. Objections had, however, been made as to the style and manner in which several members of the Committee had carried on their opposition. For his own part, he could only say, that he had acted for the best, and he verily believed every other hon. gent, had done the same, and there was certainly not a stronger proof of a vexatious opposition on their part, than on that of the other side.Mr. Ellis
 expressed strong regret at the turn the discussion had taken. If the hon. gent, retired from his situation of chairman of the Committee, in the way he had stated, it would produce an impression throughout the country not favourable to that house. He objected to the proposition reducing the number from 25 to 15, which if it had not been made we should have been free from the evils of this debate.Mr. Johnstone
 thought the attack of the hon. gent, who had spoken last but one as most unkind upon the chairman, to whose diligence and ability he bore ample testimony, having attended as regularly as any member of the Committee. The Report had been produced by the chairman when a return had been made of the public establishments. There had certainly been a considerable difference of opinion as to many very important points among the gentlemen who composed the Committee; but, he believed, none which were made from any other motive than that each individual thought it his duty to oppose every matter which he did not think for the public interest, or not within the view of the house in appointing the Committee. The question respecting Sinecure Places had been debated during five days, and in the end agreed to in a large and full attendance, when there were nineteen members present, and yet that passage, which he should ever regret, as having been left out of the Report, had afterwards been expunged at a meeting which took place, when many of the members of the Committee had left town or neglected to attend, in consequence of an impression that the business of the Committee had been brought to a close for that session: as to the delay that had taken place in the proceedings of the Committee, it was chiefly attributable to the lion, member on the floor (Mr. Wharton) who bad spoken no less than eight different times, as he distinctly remembered, upon the passage, to which he had alluded, and yet said nothing in the last seven times that he had not said in the first, nor any thing in either instance, that he had not said seventy times before.Mr. Sumner
 bore testimony to the diligent, active, and enlightened conduct of the chairman, who, in preparing his Report, acted in compliance with a request of the Committee, and in conformity with the general practice of all committees. For his part, he would attend the Committee, because he hoped to benefit the public by so doing.Mr. Alderman Combe
 stated, in explanation, that he had prepared the Report at the request of the Committee, and had read it to the Committee before the Easter Recess, in order that the members might have time to consider of its contents, before they should be called upon to discuss or agree to it.Mr. Bankes
117 was ready to bear testimony to the readiness with which his right hon. friend had acceded to his suggestion as to the propriety of reducing the number of the members of the Committee. In the long experience of last session it was but too obvious that the Committee was too numerous to prosecute its labours with any desirable effect. Of the certainty of
117Mr. Bankes
 said he had no objection whatever to qualify the expression. The use of the term false, if meant to convey the idea of a person's asserting as true what he knew to be false, he was satisfied could not be allowed in civilized society. He did not, however, use the expression in that sense, nor did he mean to convey the slightest impeachment of the hon. gent, as a public or private man. He only meant that the hon. gent, had taken an unfair view of the subject, and that the opinion he had formed of the Report was erroneous and false. If that explanation was satisfactory to the hon. gent, he should be glad of it. He could say no more: he was still satisfied, that the hon. gent, and other members of the Committee had proceeded on mistaken and erroneous principles, and that their view of the Report was a false and erroneous one.Mr. Bankes
 said, that notwithstanding the prescribed limits of explanation, he could not sit in silence and hear that Report which he had submitted to the committee branded with the character of entrenching upon any one of the royal prerogatives. He denied it; and in the fullest and strongest manner one gentleman could contradict another, asserted that such an opinion of that Report was false and unfounded. (Order, order.)Mr. Bankes
 entirely agreed with Mr. Bankes in his opinion of that Report. He thought it would be wrong to put the same men again on the same Committee who had hitherto so disagreed.Mr. H. Thornton
126 admitted many disagreeable circumstances had occurred in the Committee, but he believed from no ill intention in any one, nor from any desire to protract unnecessarily the time of the Committee. Many thought a reform as to the power and influence of the crown was necessary, and others that it was not; and he believed each party was
126Mr. I. H. Browne
127 condemned the course pursued by the chairman and those who supported him in the last Committee, on account of their introducing into their Reports matters foreign to the purpose for which they were instituted, such as the king's prerogative, the privileges of parliament, &c. He and those who were of his opinion in the Committee, opposed these innovations, and wished to confine the Report entirely to what they thought the only object of their labours, namely, the
127Mr. Brogden
 said, the allusion he had made on that head was only to express his surprize that Mr. T. Steele had not been prosecuted.Mr. P. Moore
119l.118 was glad to hear what had fallen from the hon. gent, because if he had not stated his sentiments, as he had clone, he was prepared himself to give expression to similar sentiments. After all the Reports, which had already been laid before the house, session after session, by former Committees, without producing
119l.118Mr. Peter Moore
tolo calo,ipse dixits did not think that any set of men had ever entered on their duty with a more earnest desire to discharge it than the members of that committee. He contended, however, that in the course of their proceedings questions had been introduced, not, in his judgment, by them cognizable, and foreign to the objects of their consideration. He had no doubt of the zeal and industry of the chairman, but he did differ with him as to the purport of part of his voluminous Report, which, in his opinion, went too much to trench upon the royal prerogative, and differing from him he would act in conformity to his own judgment and not give himself up altogether to the tolo calo,ipse dixitsMr. Ellison
 declared himself satisfied.Mr. Ellison
 hoped he might be allowed to notice the language of an hon. member towards him. He had spoken of that hon. gent, with the highest respect. He had given him credit for the ability and integrity which he was universally allowed to possess, but the hon. gent, had applied towards him an expression highly improper and unbecoming, and for which, if he had used it to any man, he should have found himself bound to apologize. This was a duty which he had a right to expect from the hon. gent, and he hoped he would discharge it, by qualifying the expression he had used.Mr. Ellison
 said that was not his business.Mr. Long
 said, that it was not fair in the hon. gent, to argue that so many reports had been made, and not acted on. The first report made by this Committee relative to the Bunk had been most carefully attended to and acted on, and the public had already derived considerable advantages from it. In regard to the second, which related to the Pay Office, he had immediately acquiesced in the sentiments of the Committee, and there was not one of the regulations they had recommended that he had not attended to, and so far adopted as was in his power. As some of these would require an act of the legislature, it was his intention to bring it forward, but he had not yet been able to do it. In every other instance the utmost deference had, in that department, been paid to the regulations proposed by the Committee. As to what had fallen from an honourable member respecting a gentleman who had been in the Pay Office, but who was not now a member of the house, an inquiry had immediately been instituted; and he found that the sum, whatever it might have been, had, been paid into the office by the gentleman alluded to.Mr. Long
 was willing to do justice to the labours of the last Committee, but observed, that there had been sins of omission as well as commission, and that if those were not filled up by the next Committee, he should call the attention of the house to do it at a future period.Mr. Sharp
123 said, that after what had fallen from several gentlemen who had spoken on the subject then before the house, he deemed it necessary, that he, situated as he had been, and particularly objected to on the appointment of the Committee, should request the house to indulge him with their attention till he offered a few observations, lie had endeavoured to discharge the trust which the house had done him the honour to confide to him, with every possible degree of assiduity in his attendance, and the most anxious desire to contribute all in his power to effect those important objects which it appeared to him the house had in view, in appointing the Committee of which he had been a member, and which was now intended to be revived. Various important matters had been brought under the consideration of the Committee, upon which various differences of opinion prevailed; in consequence of which, discussions took place, which ended without effecting any change in the opinions of either of the parties each side having used every means in their power to carry the point respectively insisted upon. It had been stated, therefore, that there were many delays during the time that the Committee was in the exercise of its funcions. He allowed this to be the case, but he was at the same time bold to say, that those delays had, in a great measure, proceeded from a voluminous political treatise which had been introduced by the hon. gent, who was chairman of the Committee, and he believed that every opposition that paper had met with, either from himself, or any other hon. member of the Committee who thought proper to object to it, arose from a consciousness on their parts, that the paper, he alluded to, contained many particulars relative to the prerogative of the crown, and other matters not at all relating to the expenditure of the public money, and which he himself and the gentlemen who thought as he did, from time to time opposed, because they did not think it proper to register the hon. chairman's edict, without having examined its various contents and their several bearings; more especially, as he thought that it contained many things which were never in the contemplation of the house to enquire into when they appointed the Committee. For his own part, he had been actuated by no other motive than a real regard and zeal for the public interest, and as such had
123Mr. R. Wharton (Chairman of the Ways and Means)
 bore his testimony to the upright and honourable conduct of Mr. Bankes in the Chair, and defended the character of the. late Committee. But this was not the immediate matter before the house; they were to look prospectively and not retrospective If ever a Committee was necessary, he thought this was the precise period when it was most so, as public economy was now more requisite than ever to the well-being of the state. In order to reconcile the different opinions that had been stated, he proposed that the names of gentlemen as members of the Committee, should be called from both sides of the house alternately.Mr. Biddulph
 I certainly think that if that gallant officer expressed any wish upon the subject, that ought to have been an additional reason for a more ample publication of them.Mr. Whitbread.
a fortiori,121 agreed, that it would be much better that the Committee should be revived as it existed last session, than in the reduced state proposed; or even that it should not be revived at all, because then no delusion would be practised upon the public. He agreed with the right
a fortiori,121Mr. Whitbread
 I would wish to put a question to a noble lord opposite (lord Castlereagh), which the non-formation of a house yesterday prevented me from proposing sooner. I would wish to know why in the London Gazette there have been no dispatches published as coming directly from the gallant and much-lamented sir John Moore? I hope that it is only an omission in the documents printed, which his majesty's ministers mean to remedy by a speedy publication of them.Mr. Whitbread.
l. said, it appeared somewhat extraordinary that this gentleman, who was a privy counsellor, should, at the time he was Paymaster of the Forces, in the face of an act of parliament, have helped himself to 12 or 14,000l.Mr. Creevey
131 thought it would be very material that the house should have somewhat more time allowed them to consider of this matter. The appointment now proposed, was such as to induce the hon. chairman to refuse again accepting that office, which he had formerly filled with much advantage to the country and honour to his own character; and therefore
131Mr. Wilberforce
 then moved, That the debate be adjourned to Friday next.—A division took place, when there appeared, for the Adjournment, Ayes 62, Noes 124 Majority 62.—We were not again admitted to the gallery, but understand that the question was put on every alternate name in the list offered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; against which another name was proposed by the other side. The house divided seven times on these names, and those proposed by the Chancellor were all carried, the numbers on every division being about 131 to 47.Mr. Wilberforce
 expressed his apprehensions, that after the discussions that had taken place, the appointment of a Committee would not be attended with any good effects. After all the pains and trouble such Committees could take, he could not see that the public burthens would be in the least diminished. As for what had been said respecting the prerogative of the crown, he conceived that if there were persons who held an opinion that it was more necessary to increase than take away from it, they were unlit to be appointed on this Committee. He regretted that when the Committee was first proposed, it had been taken out of the hands of the hon. gent, who brought it forward (Mr. Biddulph), and the nomination of members made by a noble friend of his (lord H. Petty), then chancellor of the exchequer. This was a fatal precedent, the effects of which they now witnessed.Lord Milton
142141140139 began by observing, that before he would call the attention of the house to the detail of the splendid services, which they were that
142141140139Lord Casilereagh
nem, con then said, that as great part of the glory and splendour of the transaction was. owing to the spirit, activity, zeal, and enterprise of the navy, he was sure the house would most readily agree to bestow on the officers and men engaged in that part of our service the same distinguished mark of their approbation as they had just accorded to those of the army. He moved, therefore, the Thanks of the house to rear-admiral De Courcy and rear-admiral sir Samuel Hood, and the officers under their command, for their exertions in aiding the enterprize of our troops at Corunna. Also an acknowledgment to the non-commissioned officers and seamen, of the approbation of the house for their exertions, activity, and zeal on the same occasion.—Both the resolutions were put and agreed to nem, conLord Castlereagh
148147146 rose, to make his motion for the Thanks of the house to sir Arthur Wellesley, and the officers and men under his command, for the brilliant victory they had obtained at the Battle of Vimiera. —Whatever differences of opinion might have taken place, or might at that moment exist, as to the various matters which had occurred since that brilliant achievement, he was sure there never was, at any period of our history, a stronger burst of national gratitude than that which was universally proclaimed by the people of this country on the receipt of the first intelligence of the gallant and glorious Victory of Vimiera. He was happy in being able to separate this short, but me-
148147146Lord Castlereagh
150 said, that disagreeable as the task was, he must dissent from the motion; and he would, as shortly as possible, explain his reasons for so doing. The noble lord had said he was not actuated by any partiality in bringing forward the motion; and he hoped it was unnecessary for him to add, that he was not moved by any feelings of hostility to the gallant general in question in making the objections to the motion to which his duty impelled him. It had, as he understood, always been held, that the thanks of that house should not be voted without the most striking proof of some superior valour and achievement, or that some good consequence highly beneficial to the interests of the country, had ensued. He was willing to admit all the merit of courage and gallantry which attached to the character of sir A. Wellesley, and also the enthusiasm of the army towards him: but he could not see that it had been productive of any such good consequences as, in his opinion, ought to have resulted from it. He admitted the truth of the noble lord's statement as to the enthusiasm of the country when the news first arrived; but he believed that enthusiasm had subsided, and a very different opinion had since become general as to the result of the battle alluded to. The noble lord had said the French were superior in numbers, but he was of a contrary opinion. It appeared from the dispatches, that the French army amounted to 12 or 14,000 men; the British army consisted of from 14 to 16,000 men, besides 1,200 Portuguese troops. By the report of the officers of the Court of Inquiry, which had sat on the results of that battle, it appeared that they could not blame sir H. Burrard for objecting to the advance of our forces. The immediate consequences of that objection were the Armistice and the Convention, of which or of some parts of which, the house had recently been informed, his majesty had expressed a formal disapprobation. Neither of the victories, therefore, appeared to him to deserve the thanks of the house.—Another objection in his mind was, that no mention was made in the vote of the name of sir H. Burrard, to whom he thought great praise was due for the partite had acted, and which it was owned
150Lord Folkestone
 concurred in the motion. He gave the noble lord behind him credit when he said, that he had no personal hostility to sir A. Wellesley; but he differed from him widely in opinion on this subject; for he believed that this victory possessed all the ingredients which were calculated to do honour to the country, and to call for the unanimous Thanks of the house. He would not speak of the final result of the campaign; but as to this victory, and the course that led to it, there never was any thing more splendid and decisive, and the house would be wanting in the feelings that ought to distinguish the British parliament, unless they marked their sense of gratitude by the warmest thanks. Pie stated on public grounds, that from the landing at Mondego, to the victory of Vimiera, the whole proceeding formed a splendid monument of the military genius of sir A. Wellesley. But if he were to speak from private feeling he would say, that though from the commencement of his career sir A. Wellesley had deserved the highest applause of his country, there was no occasion when his military genius shone with greater lustre than the present. He agreed with the hon. gent. who spoke last but one, that from what the distinguished general in question had already done, we might form the most flattering hopes of what he would in future accomplish, in the honourable profession to which he was so splendid an ornament; and from the heavy loss we had so recently sustained among our generals, we ought carefully to nourish and encourage all those who had given such pre-eminent proofs of the vast superiority of their talents. He was happy to be able to concur so completely in this motion, from the judicious course which the noble lord had adopted, in confining it to the conduct of the general and the troops.Mr. Fremantle cordially
152151 supported the motion, and expressed his extreme regret at the treatment his friend sir A. Wellesley received on his arrival in this country, after the
152151Mr. Blachfard
 observed, that he had not said that the British troops were superior in number to all the French in Portugal, but only to those in the engagement.Lord Folkestone
 fully concurred in the merits of sir A. Wellesley: but it appeared that there had been a difference of opinion between sir A. Wellesley and sir H. Burrard at the close of the day. On that subject the Board of Inquiry had given no opinion, and as they had not done so, he thought it would be indecorous in the house to do any thing which might appear to decide that question. If he voted for the motion, it must be with a clear understanding that this point was left as before.Mr. Lambe
 said that it was not his object to take the sense of the house, either directly or indirectly, on that question.Lord Castlereagh
155 observing that the motion must, if pushed to a division, be put in another form, adverted to the merits of the case, and acknowledged, that if the matter were to be decided by personal feeling, one might be disposed to overlook the real nature of the question,
155The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
156 assured the house that
156General Stewart
162161160159 then rose and said, that in calling the attention of the house to the important motion of which he had given notice for that evening, he had the satisfaction of feeling, that although the subject was of
162161160159Lord Casdereagh
166 did not think this the proper time for discussing the merits of the measure, and hoped, that the debate would not be continued to any
166The Chancellor of the Exchequer
165 rose merely to one point, and that he considered of so much importance that he should feel he had not done his duty if he omitted to mention the subject. He had listened with attention to the speech of the noble lord, and was sorry that a proposition which he had suggested in a former session, made no part of it. He was of opinion that greater reliance should be placed on the service of the militia for the defence of the country. The country treated them as well as the regular troops, and in some instances better, as it made a better allowance for their wives and children. The militia, therefore, owed a debt to the country of making their services as efficacious as possible. He wished that, instead of allowing the militia to enter into the regular army, they should be allowed to extend their services generally to every part of the United Kingdom Since the Union the militia laws appeared to him anomalous; and his
165Mr. Herbert
144143 rose and said; There can, sir, be but one sentiment in this house upon the present motion; nor is there, I am persuaded, an individual within its walls who does not feel that sentiment fully and forcibly. All minor considerations are forgotten in the involuntary tribute of national gratitude to the services that have added new splendour to the national character; and when such a subject is before us, it is well that no feeling arising out of any political differences be allowed for a moment to interfere with the nobler sympathy by which we are bound,
144143Lord H. Petty
167 stated in explanation, that he had never said that assistance ought not to have been sent to Spain in the early moments of its national ebullition; neither had he said that the deficiencies of the army ought not to be repaired. What he had said, was, that he would not con-
167Mr. Tierney
163 saw no occasion for any increase of our force destined for foreign service, till the house should be informed what was the nature of the foreign service in which they might be employed. No case had been made out by the noble lord of any deficiency existing in the disposable force of the country, which rendered a measure such as that now proposed, necessary; and he conceived that before the house gave their consent to it, it was their duly to enquire what had become of the great force placed in the noble lord's hands two years ago, at which time he had himself declared that the country stood in a proud situation, and that its military strength was adequate to every exertion that could be required from it. What deficiency had arisen in that large disposable force the noble lord had himself termed sufficient, neither he (Mr. T.) nor any man in the house knew. Before he could consent to impose upon the people the additional burthen which this measure would create, he must be satisfied, not only that a further regular force was necessary, but that the hands into which the disposition of that force was to be entrusted were equal to the confidence reposed in them. At present, all he knew on the subject was, that the army had been most shamefully wasted by the noble lord. Without meaning to cast the slightest reflection on our gallant officers, whose skill and valour entitled them, on the contrary, to the highest praise, he was convinced that the house and the country must deeply feel that the military power of England under the auspices of the noble lord had experienced a more disgraceful discomfiture than any to which it had ever hitherto been exposed.—He made these observations on the present occasion at this early stage of the business, to guard himself from being supposed to assent to the proposition, that his majesty's ministers had a claim on the country to have a further
163Mr. Tierney
149 urged his friendship for sir A. Wellesley as an excuse for pressing forward to second the motion. He ran no risk of weakening the ground upon which this motion stood, for if submitted to the whole nation, it would be carried by acclamation. He would abstain from trespassing on the indulgence of the house by following the noble lord minutely or offering any eulogium on the hon. general, his friend, because it was altogether unnecessary, and would be trespassing on the time of the house. Great actions spoke best for themselves; and the splendid deeds for which the house was called upon to vole its Thanks, far exceeded his powers of description. Sir A. Wellesley was at a time of life when much might still be expected, and the course of service so gloriously begun, and so brilliantly distinguished at Assaye, promised a harvest of laurels which would be reaped at the proper periods—whether he was to be employed as the avenger of our wrongs, or the protector of other countries from violence and oppression. With the experience which sir A. Wellesley had acquired, with the prompt courage and coolness for which he was distinguished, what might not be expected from that patriotic ardour, that firm decision, and that calm intrepidity, by which the gallant officer in question had ever been so eminently distinguished, when proper occasions offered for calling them forth? He hoped
149Mr. H. Addington
 desired that he might be included in the reservation of his right hon. friend, not to be construed as approving of any project of the noble lord, until the house should be made acquainted with the deficiency to be supplied, and the amount to which the noble lord meant to increase the army. Then they could call upon the noble lord, from authoritative documents, to shew what he had done with the deficiency. He felt great difficulty in intrusting the right hon. gentlemen on the opposite side, with the management of a stronger disposable force, until they should show what had been done with the very efficient force voted last session. This, no doubt, the noble, lord would do. In opening his measure to the house the noble lord had abstained from entering into details, and seemed to think it a matter of course to take 26,000 men from the defensive force of the country for the increase of the regular army. As this was a military subject, he wished to ask the secretary at war when the Army Estimates would be laid before the house, and hoped that they would be presented in such a form as that the house would not have to discuss the Army and Ordnance Estimates on the same night, as happened last session, when, after a long debate upon the Army Estimates, the house at two o'clock in the morning was called on to vote the Ordnance Estimates, exceeding four millions. He hoped, too, that the noble lord would have no objection to lay before the house an account of the effective strength of the army, before the second reading of the bill.Mr. Calcraft
154 could not give his vote this night without saying a few words. He bore testimony to the judicious, candid, and liberal manner in which the noble lord had brought the subject forward, both with respect to the operations in Spain and Portugal—in resting the whole matter on the real merits of the officers, without entering upon points in which they were not concerned. He would most cheerfully give his thanks for the actions of the 17th and 21st, and acknowledge the conduct, the prowess, the valour, and the gallantry of sir A. Wellesley and the army under his command, from their landing to the conclusion of the victory of Vimiera. But the moment the house was doing ample justice to both they ought to abstain from fixing a stigma on the conduct of another officer, especially after the loss which he had recently sustained. Sir H. Burrard was the commander of the army on the 21st, and from his judicious conduct had deserved the Thanks of that house; and he was sure that no jealousy could exist in the great mind of sir A. Wellesley on this subject. If sir H. Burrard was so modest as not to aspire to the honour which that house had it in its power to confer, sir A. Wellesley, on the other hand, was too generous to envy the thanks of the house to an officer who had not interrupted him in his career, as had been said by an hon. gent. on the floor (Mr. Blachford) but had refused to interfere with the triumphs of sir A. Wellesley, and while he took the responsibility on himself ascribed in his dispatch the merit to sir Arthur. Could the house depart from the established rule, and refuse to record their Thanks to sir H. Burrard, the Commander-in-Chief, as well as to sir A. Wellesley? He fully agreed in the caution of his hon. friend behind him (Mr. Lambe) not to blame sir H. Burrard, and the only way to prevent this was to introduce the name of sir Harry, which might be done without any injury whatever to sir A. Wellesley. If a Commander was responsible for what he committed to an inferior officer, why should he be deprived of the praise? Was sir Harry at a distance on the day of the battle? Had he not taken the command the day before? Sir Arthur came and took his orders from sir H. Burrard before, during, and after the battle. Sir H. Burrard considered the plan of sir Arthur, and
154Mr. Whitbread
 had no hesitation in complying with the recommendation of his hon. friend, in withdrawing his Amendment. He remained, however, of the opinion he had already expressed, that sir H. Burrard was entitled to the thanks of the house; but as his hon. friend had stated that the vote of this night would not preclude him from afterwards receiving that testimony of approbation to which he (Mr. W.) contended his conduct entitled him, he should not press the introduction of it into the vote of this night. He agreed most cordially with his hon. friend in the sentiments he expressed in regard to general Ferguson. He was satisfied that sir A. Wellesley and general Ferguson must go down to posterity as the most distinguished heroes of Vimiera.—The Amendment was then withdrawn, when the Resolution for a vote of thanks to sir A. Wellesley was put, and carried, with the sole dissentient voice of lord Folkestone. The thanks of the house were next voted to major-generals Spencer, Hill, and Ferguson; and to brigadier-generals Ackland, Nightingale, Fane, and Bowes, and the officers under their command. A Resolution was then agreed to, expressive of the approbation of that house, of the conduct of the noncommissioned officers and privates.Mr. Whitbread
153 concurred in the motion, and thought the noble lord had taken the course which was most agreeable to sir H. Burrard himself. That officer would be more satisfied with the manner in which his merits had been allowed, and he was no stranger to the thanks of the house. It was with pride he would give his thanks in the manner proposed. He concluded with describing the actions of the 17th and 21st of August as of the most chivalrous nature, and worthy of being had in everlasting remembrance in the circle of the soldier, and by paying a warm tribute to the merit of sir A. Wellesley, who had conciliated the love and respect of the private soldier, deserved the most hearty applauses of his country, and proved himself a veteran in noble daring, a veteran in
153General Grosvenor
158157 was particularly anxious to express his strong approbation of what had fallen from the hon. general respecting brigadier-general Anstruther. It was impossible to speak too highly of the military merit, the capacity, in all respects, and the excellent character of that officer, who, if his life had not been lost to his country by the fatigue of severe duty, would have been among the list of those this day to have received the thanks of his country.
158157Mr. Adam
 expressed deep regret that the regular army should be kept up by these hackneyed expedients, which had the effect of breaking down the militia, and produced the increase of the army by means of a direct, and he must be permitted to say, a fraudulent system of taxation. He lamented the inroads which had been made upon the wise system of a right hon. friend of his (Mr. Windham) then absent from indisposition, but who, he trusted, would attend in his place on the second reading of the bill.Mr. Elliot
 thought our army had not been treated as it deserved, and he would not consent to the drawing of a single sixpence out of the pockets of his constituents for the purpose of adding to our disposable force, till he knew how the dispoable force we already possessed had been managed. Had they not last year voted 120,000 men for general disposable service? How galling, then, the reflection, that only 28,000 could be collected when we went to meet a numerous enemy in a country, which we were so much interested in defending! The army had unquestionably displayed its wonted valour, and would, he was sure, always do its duty; but it was a melancholy consideration that this valour had only been sufficient to secure a retreat, not to reap the. fruits of a victory. It did not appear, that more than 36,000 men had at any time been employed in Spain and Portugal; and he trusted that they should never again hear of an expedition of that description being sent to oppose the numerous armies of France. In every stage, therefore, of the present bill he should oppose it, and would not agree to any further increase of the army, until it should be shewn what had been done with the army voted lost session. Under this impression he had come down to the house to vote against the measure in the first instance.Sir T. Turton
 rose and said, he held in his hand a Petition from persons confined for debt in the King's-Bench prison, to the number of 367, many of whom had families. He had intended to submit some observations to the house on the unprecedented number of persons at present confined for debt in the different gaols of the kingdom, and the hardships which were produced by the present system of confinement for debt; but as the subject had been taken up by a noble lord in another house, he should at present content himself with moving for leave to present this Petition.—Mr. Whit-bread, seeing a right hon. gent. in his place, wished to ask, what was the nature of the Overture which it was said sir James Saumarez had made, on the part of his majesty, to the emperor of Russia? Mr. Sec. Canning replied, that the Paper alluded to was nothing more than a letter written by that gallant officer to the Emperor, filled with merely general assurances of the pacific inclinations of his majesty; but containing no direct proposal from his majesty's government, nor written under any authority whatever from that government.—Mr. Sec. Canning said, that in consequence of the question put by a noble lord yesterday, relative to the appointment of an hon. member of that house to the Consul-Generalship of Portugal, he had endeavoured to make himself more competent to satisfy the noble lord, than either he or his right hon. friend was yesterday. The appointment had taken place, and he imagined that the gentleman in question had, by that time, arrived at his destination. Lord Folkestone then gave notice, that he would to-morrow move for a new Writ for Poole.Sir T. Turton
164 observed, that it was now but seventeen months since the house had been discussing a measure similar to that proposed by the noble lord. He had the misfortune to differ from the noble lord at that time, and consistently, with the opinion he then entertained, he was bound to oppose the present measure. On the former occasion the noble lord expressly stated, that it was a measure only to be resorted to upon an extraordinary emergency, and not to be looked to as a general system for supplying the army. Now, it appeared that it was to be adopted as a regular system for supplying the army; and the principle upon which these bills went, was nothing less than raising the regular army by a conscription on the people of this country. He was glad to hear what had fallen from the hon. bart. upon the subject, because, certainly, the hon. bart. could not be actuated by any party feeling in his opposition to the measure.Af-
164Lord Milton
 moved for a new Writ for Poole, in the room of John Jeffery, esq. who had been appointed Consul General to her most faithful majesty's dominions in Europe.Lord Folkestone
177 submitted to the noble lord the propriety of previously moving for a Committee to examine whether by such an appointment a member of that house vacated his seat. For himself, he was not aware that there was any distinction between the appointment of a minister at a foreign court, and that of a consul general, in this point; and unquestionably by the
177Mr. Rose
 acceding to this proposition, the debate was adjourned to Monday se'nnight, and an humble Address was ordered to be presented to his majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to cause to be laid before the house a copy of Mr. Jeffery's appointment.Lord Folkestone
 answered, that he had every wish to acknowledge the eminent services of the gallant general, and that he felt every disposition to do honour to his memory; but on the present occasion, he feared it was not compatible with the usage of parliament, to name any officers but those who were actually present.Lord Castleragh
 concurred in the same sentiments, and added, that the gallant general's name had twice before been included in the thanks of the house.The Secretary at War
 said, that however brilliant the conduct of his gallant relation had been upon the affair to which the honourable general alluded, it would be departing from the uniform usage of parliament to thank individual officers for actions with detachments.Lord Castlereagh
 seconded the motion.Sir Francis Burdett
188 said, that he did not rise to give any opposition to the motion. (Hear, hear, from the Treasury Bench.) If he did so, he would ill consult the wishes and worse consult the interests of the Commander in Chief. From a regard to the interests of the Commander in Chief he felt unfeigned satisfaction, that, at length, an opportunity was afforded of instituting an effectual inquiry into the grounds of the various calumnies and misrepresentations which had of late been so industriously circulated against that illustrious personage. The facts which the hon. gent, had brought forward were of the most serious nature, and well deserved
188The Secretary at War
192191 observed that he never listened to a charge more serious, and he had heard if with the greatest possible concern, both on account of the Commander in Chief, and the hon. gent. who had brought it forward, (hear! hear!) who took so heavy a résponsibility upon himself. But he was glad that the house had come at last to some Charges against h. r. h. the Commander in Chief in a tangible form. At length they could reach in a tangible shape some of those libels which had for some time past been more assiduously and pertinaciously circulated than at any former period in this country so prolific in libels. Publications which he would treat as libels, (hear! hear!) had lately appeared against the Commander in Chief, and these had been circulated with a pertinacity hitherto unexampled. He was glad therefore that something was now brought forward in a tangible form, and he hoped the House would do its duty to itself, to the country, and to the Royal House of Brunswick—(Loud cries of hear! hear!); that blame might rest where it ought to be fixed, and that if there was no ground for these accusations, justice might he done to the Commander in Chief. And he sincerely hoped, that if the latter should turn out to be the fact— the hon. gent. would be enabled to acquit himself, by shewing at least, that there existed some probable reasons in support of the heavy charge which he had taken upon himself. For my own part, Mr. Yorke continued, I believe that there exists a Conspiracy of the most atrocious and diabolical kind against his royal highness (loud cries of hear! hear!)— founded on the Jacobinical spirit which appeared at the commencement of the French revolution; for though this spirit did not shew itself exactly in the same form as at first, when once raised it was not easily quelled, and it never could promote its views with better hopes of success than by talking down illustrious persons—(hear! hear!). It was the object to write down his royal highness— it was no less so to write down all the establishments of the country. By means of the press, the liberty of which was so valuable, and the licentiousness of which was so pernicious, it appeared to be the design of the Conspirators to write
192191Mr. Yorke
193 having never, either in that house or elsewhere, talked of the Duke of York with disrespect, could have no view but what was entertained by the right hon. gentlemen opposite in seconding the motion then under consideration, and he entertained the same hope that the inquiry would terminate in the entire exculpation of his royal highness. He was sure there could be no other feeling in the house upon the subject, lie agreed with the right hon. gent. who spoke last, that the hon. mover was entitled to the thanks of the house for having brought this matter forward, when he heard of the facts he had detailed. It was his duty to do so, and he was consequently entitled to commendation. For his own part, he had not known any thing of the motion of the hon. gent. further than as any other member might from the notice he had given of his intention to bring it forward. But the facts he had stated appeared so serious, that he thought the house was bound to inquire into the case, and had therefore seconded the motion. He sincerely hoped that, upon inquiry, it would appear that the facts alledged originated in error, or in mischievous intentions, and an unfair wish to run down the duke of York. It was impossible to avoid such things in a country where free discussion was allowed. There was no man in a public station, or indeed in any prominent rank in the country, who must not have felt the effects of this privilege of a free press. But it was also a consequence of the same freedom of discussion, that any party aggrieved had easy access to the courts of justice for redress; or, if that mode should not be resorted to, that the calumny would die away, and leave the character it assailed brighter than before, when cleared up from false accusations. This he hoped would be the case in the present instance; and indeed, if it had not been for the facts so strongly stated by the hon. gent. he could not have entertained even the shadow of a suspicion that it could possibly be otherwise. He had risen only
193Sir Francis Burdett
203202nemcon. was happy to find that there had been such an universal concurrence of sentiment with respect to the necessity of examining in the most solemn manner the charges which had now been brought forward. He should have thought it unnecessary to trouble the House on the occasion, if it were not for one or two expressions which had fallen from an hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread), who seemed to censure the idea of there being a systematic conspiracy to calumniate the duke of York and the royal family; and who stated that ministers and the law-officers must be much to blame for not instituting prosecutions, if such a conspiracy really existed. He was somewhat surprised at the course which had been taken in the debate by a noble lord(FoLkestone),who suffered the original motion to be carried, 203202nemcon.Lord Castlereagh
 then proposed, that the hon. gent. should give in a list of the names of those Witnesses he intended to call to substantiate his Charge, that such persons might be summoned to attend.—Mr. Wardle (after having gone to the table to make out his list of Witnesses) returned to his seat and said that he thought it would be attended with no inconvenience to defer mentioning the witnesses till Tuesday, when he should come down prepared to furnish the house with the first part of the case he should proceed to prove, and a list of the witnesses whom it might be necessary to examine relative to that first charge.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
204 wished the noble lord, opposite, to inform him, whether it was his intention to lay before the house a return of the loss sustained by the British Army in Spain, during the late expedition to that country. Such a document was necessary before he proceeded with the motion, of which he had given notice, relative to the mode in? which the war in that country had been conducted. If the noble lord did intend
204Mr. Ponsonby
 said, there could be no objection to laying this return before the house, but as it had not yet been fully made to government, he could not possibly condescend upon any particular day.Lord Castlereagh
 rose to do away an impression of a very unpleasant nature, which had been made on the public. It had been stated, and was very generally believed, that our loss in Spain amounted to 8 or 9,000 men. He could take upon himself to state, that it did not exceed half that number.General Stewart
 asked, if he alluded only to the loss sustained in the retreat, and at Corunna?Mr. Ponsonby
 During the whole campaign—from the first moment the British army entered Spain till their final embarkation at Corunna. (Loud and repeated cheers.)General Stewart.
197 coincided in the unanimous feeling of the house, that to the most solemn and serious accusation brought forward that night, the most solemn and serious inquiry ought to be afforded. The only difference that seemed to exist in the mind of gentlemen was, as to the manner of conducting that investigation, whether the ends, to which all looked with equal eagerness, were more likely to be acquired by a private and delegated examination, or by a full, prompt and public discussion, arising from the testimony, which the hon. gent. who submitted those charges to parliamentary consideration, may be enabled to produce at the bar of that house. The more the house reflected upon the importance of the subject, the high station of the party, or the important interests connected with this inquiry, the more it would concur with his hon. friend (Mr. Adam) that it should not abandon its inquisitorial functions in this instance. He could state upon the authority of the illustrious person himself, given him at the only opportunity he had of consulting with him upon the subject, that the most ready course of prosecuting the inquiry would be the most agreeable to him, and that he deprecated nothing so much as a course that would impede the final result. That illustrious personage wished, like any other subject, to be put publicly upon his trial, and to stand acquitted or convicted upon the case that might be made out: at the same time that he had a thorough conviction, that he should exculpate himself from all charge. From the nature of the facts which had been already stated, he would stake his reputation upon it, that it was impossible that, after the result of the inquiry, any suspicion could even attach to his royal highness. But he was sure the house would pause before it would depart from its established usage to adopt a parliamentary commission, He felt the inconvenience of a parliamentary inquiry; but these inconveniences must be encountered on so important an occasion.— The hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle) had in the course of his speech stated a circumstance which particularly involved the character of his majesty's government. He had mentioned that two members of the king's cabinet were concerned in this
197The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 considered the hon. mover entitled to the fullest credit, for the manner in which he brought the subject forward. He was of opinion that the ends of justice would be best answered by referring the inquiry to a Select Committee, from whose Reports all the benefits of publicity would be derived. From the inconveniences which he had witnessed in the progress of an examination at the bar, he submitted whether any mode of conducting the inquiry was not better than that proposed by the right hon. gent. It was extraordinary to see the Chancellor of the Exchequer interfere with the mode of proceeding which the hon. mover I had adopted, when the house recollected with what severe comment that gent. (Mr. Perceval) remarked upon certain members on his side of the house, for the alledged indecorum of taking certain measures out of the hands of the original proposers.Lord Folkestone
200199 conceived that the surprise expressed by the noble lord in seeing his right hon. friend propose to the consideration of that house the most desirable mode of proceeding, would have been prevented if that noble lord had considered the nature of the improvement which was recommended. The interference of his right hon. friend was not to restrict, but to extend inquiry; it was not to narrow the means but to enlarge the sphere of deliberation. It was an improvement suited to the importance of the accusation, and to that serious discussion which so many commanding inducements pressed it upon that house to afford. The house should recollect that if such charges were, proved, the issue of its deliberation might lead to a proceeding affecting the most valuable privileges of parliament, and the dearest interests of the elevated and illustrious personage affected by their decision. It was established by various precedents in parliamentary history. It was to a Committee of the whole House the case of the duke of Marlborough was submitted, because such proceeding was considered correspondent with the gravity of its judicial character, and because it was
200199Mr. Secretary Canning
178 gave him the Thanks of the house accordingly as followeth, viz.178The Speaker
; I beg leave to express my acknowledgements to the house for the high honour which they have conferred upon me, by the notice which they have taken, and the approbation they have conveyed of my conduct during the time I commanded his majesty's troops in Portugal.— No man can value more highly than I do the honourable distinction which has been conferred upon me: a distinction which it is in the power of the representatives of a free people alone to bestow, and which it is the peculiar advantage of the officers and soldiers in the service of his majesty to have held out to them as the object of their ambition, and to receive as the reward of their services.— I beg leave, at the same time, to return you, sir, my thanks for the handsome terms in which your kindness, I ought to say your partiality for me, has induced you to convey the approbation of the house.""Mr. Speaker
 said, that of course his attention had been strongly called to the consideration of this affair; and on examination he had not been able to find any specific precedent of a seat having been vacated under similar circumstances. In 1762, on the appointment of a member of that house to be Conservator of Scotch privileges in the Netherlands, the member so appointed was declared to have vacated his seat. How far that transaction bore upon the present, it was for the house to determine. He would recommend that the present discussion should be adjourned for a few days, in order to give an opportunity to hon. gentlemen duly to weigh a subject in which the privileges of the house were so materially concerned.The Speaker
 called the attention of the house to a Resolution, to which they had agreed at the close of the last session, on a complaint that had been brought before them. A Bill had repassed the house of commons for granting to his majesty certain Duties on Distilleries, pending the prohibitions then existing by other bills. This bill was agreed to by the lords with an amendment, in which the commons, having taken it into consideration and having been convinced that it tended to forward what was evidently their own intention, concurred. The amendment was to substitute, in the latter part of the bill, the word "England" for the words "Great Britain; "the word "England" having been uniformly and according to the intention of the house of commons, used in all the former parts of the bill. The surprize which the house felt at the circumstance, induced them to come to a Resolution, that early in the next session they would enter into the investigation of the circumstance. In consequence of circumstances which had since come to his knowledge, he felt it to be his duty to suggest to the house the propriety of some further proceeding on this subject; and he trusted that either the hon. gent. by whom the Resolution of the last session was proposed, or any other member, would submit to the house some mode by which this extraordinary occurrence might be satisfactorily investigated.The Speaker
 after having observed, that there could be but one opinion as to the indispensable necessity of investigating this transaction, in order to prevent the recurrence of what might prove a serious inconvenience to the public service, moved, "That a Committee be appointed to examine into the cause of the alteration, and to report their opinion on the same to the house." —; Ordered, and the Committee was in consequence appointed.Mr. R. Dundas,
l.185l.l.l.l.l.184l.l.183l.l.l.l.l.l.182181180 rose, pursuant to his notice, and spoke to the following effect:— Fully aware, Sir, of the great importance of the subject I am about to submit to the consideration of the House, I most sincerely lament that my
l.185l.l.l.l.l.184l.l.183l.l.l.l.l.l.182181180Mr. Gwyllym Lloyd Wardle
nem, con.198 stated, that he was anxious to afford the fullest information in his power to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The office where this agency was transacted was in a court out of Threadneedle-street. The names of the agents in that office were Heylop and Pullen. They had stated various situations purchased in the Island of Jamaica, and that the two members of the present cabinet, for whom they acted in such negotiations, and to whom he alluded in his speech, were the Lord Chancellor and the Puke of Portland.nem, con.198Mr. Wardle
190189 rejoiced that the hon. gent. had at length brought forward facts, to which a specific inquiry might be directed; and he rejoiced also, that the character of the Commander in Chief would not be the subject of that general sort of discussion, which sometimes took place in that house; but that every fact would be fully and fairly sifted. It had fallen to his lot to know how promotions were conducted in the office of the Commander in Chief, and he knew that it was
190189Sir Arthur Wellesley
 being come to the house, the Speaker acquainted him, That the house had, upon Wednesday last, resolved, That the Thanks of this house be given to him, for the distinguished valour, ability and conduct, displayed by him on the 17th and 21st of August last in Portugal, on the latter of which days he obtained at Vimiera over the army of the enemy a signal victory, honourable and glorious to the British arms.Sir Arthur Wellesley
 bore strong testimony to the distinguished gallantry of gen. Anstriuther. He was confident, had it been consistent with parliamentary usage, his name would have been included in the vote of the house.Sir A. Wellesley
201 concurred heartily in the recommendation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the conclusive arguments of the right hon. secretary, for the most public inquiry. Whatever inconvenience might be the consequence, would be more than counterbalanced by the solemnity of the process; and the advantages of publicity. It was due to the elevated rank of the illustrious personage accused, and to the great interests of the country, which were so implicated in the issue. The right hon. secretary had assumed as a fact, that such a Conspiracy as he described, existed, and upon that assumption he rested all his arguments. If such a Conspiracy did exist, every man must lament, that such a character, elevated in rank and influence, should be exposed to un merited calumny. Still it was to be presumed and hoped, that a prince of the house of Hanover would prefer even suffering under such attacks, rather than risque the liberty of that press to which that family and the British Empire owed so much. But why was this brutality of insult so long suffered to continue? Were the Attorney and Solicitor Generals asleep, and the other law officers of the crown asleep? How came it that they neglected their duty? He was ready to give them credit that the omission was notintentional. There was one point in the speech of the
201Mr. Whitbread
 adverting to the signal instance of bravery evinced by a gallant relation of the noble lord opposite to him at Benevente, where at the head of some pickets of British cavalry, he attacked and defeated a body of the enemy's horse, wished to know if so signal an exploit was not deserving of particular mention in the thanks of the house.General Grosvenor
194 said, he gave way to the hon. baronet, in order that lie might have an opportunity of shewing, as he had done, with so much coolness, candour, and politeness, the motives which induced him to second the present motion. He was extremely glad he had done so, as the whole of the hon. baronet's sentiments had been delivered in a manner highly honourable to him. His chief reason for offering himself to the house, on the present question, was for the purpose of stating what bethought would be the most desirable method of proceeding in the present case. In forming the opinion he was about to deliver to the house, he looked only to the principles of the British Constitution, and the invariable end of its justice; viz. that from the highest subject to the lowest, every person accused must be taken to be innocent, till proved to be guilty. With respect to all those alledged facts which the hon. gent. had brought forward in a very candid manner, he had not the smallest doubt, however the hon. gent. might have been induced to give credence to their truth or probability, that it would ultimately turn out, on a proper investigation, that they were founded in falsehood and misrepresentation. As to that relating to the service of plate, it came in such a questionable shape, and from such a quarter, that he was sure no gentleman could believe it true. From the situation which he had gratuitously filled in the way of his profession in the service of the illustrious personage, the object of this motion, he was enabled to speak without bias, and with certainty, respecting his revenues, and every circumstance connected with them. During the twenty years that he held his office, he had been intimately acquainted with all his royal highness's affairs, without any circumstance being kept from his knowledge. At every moment of that long period he had possessed the unlimited confidence of that illustrious person, even during his embarrassments (for, as they had been under the consideration of parliament, he might advert to those embarrassments), and in all his experience of him he had known his royal highness uniformly to state the situation of his affairs with an accuracy, that was extraordinary, with a truth beyond example, and with a fidelity of memory, that reflected the highest
194Mr. William Adam
196195 expressed his sense of the importance of the subject which was submitted to the consideration of the house. He was confident that the hon. mover was impressed with the great responsibility which attached to a charge brought, as it was, against such an elevated character in? the country. He did by no means wish to convey any idea that the extent of such responsibility ought at all to deter a mem-
196195Mr. Wilberforce
179 rose to express his extreme regret that the name of a gallant relation of his who had fallen a sacrifice in the cause of his country, on the late march of the British army to Corunna, had been honoured with no place in the Votes of Thanks
179Sir John Anstruther
 replied that he had imagined the hon. gent, whose appointment was alluded to, had immediately proceeded to his destination, until this question had been started, when, upon inquiry, he found he had been detained by private affairs. If that gentleman should hereafter return for a time to England upon leave of absence, he saw no reason why he should be precluded from receiving his fees of office.Mr. Canning
 pursuant to notice, moved for, and obtained leave to bring in a Bill for extending the provisions of the 32d Geo. 2, to Debtors confined for Equity Debts. The hon. and learned member stated, that there was no difference in reality between legal and equity debts, but in the mode of recovery, as Equity Courts imprisoned the parties not for debts, but for contempt; and yet, by some, unaccountable omission, the provisions of this, humane act, commonly called the Lords Act, had never yet been extended to Equity Debtors. On these grounds leave was given to bring in a Bill to extend the provisions of the Act to persons in custody for non-payment of money pursuant to orders of Courts of Equity.Sir S. Ramilly,
 by command of his majesty, presented from the bar, a copy of the Patent appointing Mr. Jeffery his majesty's Consul-General in Portugal.Mr. Sec. Canning,
 wished to be informed, whether any salary was annexed to the office of Consul-General in Portugal, as that did not appear by the patent of appointment.Lord Folkestone
l.l.l.l.l. replied, that no salary was annexed upon the face of the patent, because no emolument was derived from the public revenues of this country. The salary was derived from the Consul's fees, which fluctuated in amount between 1,500l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Canning
209 observed, that the hon. member had anticipated what he intended to mention before he sat down. The purpose for which he chiefly rose was to ascertain from an hon. member, on the opposite bench, the nature of the motion respecting Spain of which he had given notice for Monday se'nnight. The period of discussion being so remote, it was very desirable for both sides of the house to be put in possession of all the preliminary information that was necessary. They would be the more competent to come to a fair decision, by possessing those instructions on which the campaign was carried on. On the part of government, there would be no objection to granting copies of these. The only restriction they wished to make related to pending instructions; and copies of these he hoped to be able to lay before the house while the other papers were preparing. Ministers were as anxious as the hon. member for the discussion; and as it would much forward the busi-
209Lord Castlereagh
 had no objection to state the general purport of his motion. It would be for a general inquiry into the conduct of the government with respect to Spain, and the manner in which the compaign had been conducted in Spain. If the noble lord conceived there were any papers that might render further inquiry necessary, it was within his discretion to move for their production.Mr. Ponsonby
 stated, that sir J. Moore, in delivering his dispatches to him, observed that they were private and confidential; but that ministers were at liberty to publish any parts of them they might think proper.General Stewart
221220de facto219218de factode jurede facto217216215uti possidetis.de-facto214de facto213212211 then rose, and said, that in proposing to the house to address to his majesty the expression of their thanks for the communication which his majesty had been graciously pleased to make of the Papers upon the table; their acknowledgment of the principles upon which his majesty had acted throughout his communications with the courts of France and Russia; and their resolution to support his majesty during the continuance of the war, which he had been unable to bring to an end consistent with honour or security, he could not anticipate opposition, nor did he believe there could exist any diversity of opinion. He apprehended, that any question which would that day arise, must apply to the conduct of his majesty's government as to the manner in which it had followed up its principles, and not to the principles themselves upon which they had acted. Whatever of doubt or of hesitation there should be would only be felt as arising out of the particular steps of the negotiation, and not as to the principle upon which it turned, or the result in which it terminated. No man, he believed, in the house would say, that if the business had been otherwise conducted, it would have led to a negotiation, or ended in peace. What he, therefore, had to say in proposing the Address, would lose much of its interest, because the result under any circumstances would not have been different, as the intentions of the enemy were obvious on the face of their overtures. No man would contend that the overtures had ever been sincerely meant to lead to a negotiation, or afforded the slightest chance of peace. On the face of the overtures their delusive character was manifest, and he saw before hand what must have been the necessary result. If it could be shewn that any principle had been introduced into the discussion inconsistent with the sincerity
221220de facto219218de factode jurede facto217216215uti possidetis.de-facto214de facto213212211Mr. Secretary Canning
233 in a few words, opposed the amendment of his hon. friend: the unfeigned respect he bore his hon. friend, called upon him to state his reasons for differing from him, as he did almost wholly upon the present question. The question, in his opinion, could be reduced to a much narrower compass than his hon. friend seemed to think— it did not go into the wide detail of foreign relations; the question for the house was, whether on the papers now before them, it appeared that his majesty's ministers acted right or wrong, when the overture for peace was first made by the government of France? Was it, or was it not, a proper course for ministers to demand a quick explanation with respect to the admission of Spain as a party to the Treaty? He thought it was. He again differed from his hon. friend, as to the stress laid by him on the probable consequence of the high tone in which the overtures had been answered. He did not believe any tone, however moderate, would have had the least effect on this negotiation; not that he approved of the tone used by the right hon. gentleman, far from it, he thought the language and stile adopted by the right hon. gent., more like what one political adversary would use to another in that house, than what became the gravity of diplomatic correspondence for a negotiation that was to restore peace to the world. He was inclined to think that in point of time, the crisis was most unfavourable to negotiation, for Buonaparté on the 25th of October,
233Mr. Ponsonby,
 called the honourable member to order. This was not the line of conduct to be pursued in a question of the kind now before the house.Here the Speaker
237236 said, that having a different view of the present question from any of the gentlemen who had this night delivered their opinions, and not having previously attended any of the debates connected with the cause of the Spanish people, nor expressed what were his notions on that subject, he could not allow the question to go to a vole without shortly delivering his sentiments on the occasion. On addresses proposed to be voted to his majesty, he understood it to be as a matter of right in any member to enter into a discussion of the general interests of the country. It might be disagreeable to the ears of Englishmen to hear the perilous situation of their country described, to have enumerated a train of occurrences more calamitous and improvident, probably, than had ever disgraced any nation on the face of the globe; but still, had he not been instructed by the superior judgment of the Speaker, he should have been of opinion that the honourable member who spoke last, had he not waved the right, was entitled to have proceeded, and might fairly have introduced any parallel instances of atrocity, when told, on the other side, that the act of the emperor of the French, by which this country was precluded from listening to his overtures for peace, was an instance of the most unparalleled atrocity which had ever disgraced any country. He felt no pleasure in recalling to the recollection of the house the calamities and burdens under which the people of this country groaned. He did not wish them to look back to what was past, but with the recollection of past occurrences in their minds to look forward to what yet remained; and to consider well that a continuance in similar courses might ultimately prove fatal to this land. Whatever were the merits of Buonaparté which unquestionably would not be fairly discussed in that house, it would, at least, be allowed, that he knew the best means of accomplishing the objects he had in view. Having, then, received from him a taunt as to an unprotected part of our dominions, let us take the hint, and by an act of our own render a repetition of the taunt unnecessary. It had been said, that beat a fool-in a mortar with a pestle, he would never quit his folly; we had been beat in a mortar for many years, but what had we got but disgrace? If we were to assist the Spaniards, it was the
237236Sir F. Burdett
238 denied that his majesty had drawn the sword to support the tyranny of the Inquisition, or any other ty-
238Mr. Beresford
 while he agreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread) in many observations, deprecated the idea of this being a sinking country, or that there was any necessity of shewing an anxiety to enter into negociation for peace.Lord Porchester,
 deprecated the promulgation of an opinion under the sanction of the right hon. secretary's authority, that, he had uttered any sentiments injurious to the interests of the country. He appealed to the house whether such an imputation was applicable? Whether the course he pursued this night, as he had uniformly done, in reprobating the abuses that prevailed in the administration of government, could be fairly deemed inconsistent with the profound veneration which he felt for the genuine constitution of this country Sir F. Burdett
 said, that his allusion to the hon. baronet's speech referred to the phrase of "absurdly contending for loyalty".Mr. Sec. Canning
 explained his meaning, that the argument respecting loyalty in Spain was pushed to an extremity inconsistent with the freedom of any nation, and particularly with the constitution of this land.Sir F. Burdett
241 after observing that the Act prohibiting Distillation from Grain would expire within six weeks from the commencement of the present session, expressed a hope that there would be no objection to his moving, even at that late hour, for leave to bring in a Bill to continue the said Act, as frequent opportunities would occur in its progress for fully discussing its merits. He thought it necessary, however, in the first instance, to state that there was a material difference between the Bill he proposed to introduce, and the Act of the last session. The distillation from sugar had gone on in this country under the provisions of the last Act, and the spirit it produced was found to be quite satisfactory; but in Ireland there had been no distillation whatever from sugar; on the contrary, the distillation from grain had been illicitly carried on, and the consumption of that article, which it was the object of the Act to prevent, had exceeded the ordinary amount of former years: from this experience, combined with the circumstance of an abundant harvest of potatoes in Ireland, it was deemed advisable to alter the Act with respect to that country, by removing the prohibition, accompanied however with this provision, that in the event of an enhanced price of grain in
241The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 animadverted upon the inconsistent grounds upon which the gentlemen who opposed his motion justified their opposition, and upon the equally inconsistent grounds of sense of those who agreed with him. But with regard to the noble lord who had just sat down, he could not help expressing his astonishment and regret to hear the unqualified manner in which that noble lord had thought proper to approve of the opinions delivered by the hon. baronet behind him (sir F. Burdett.) To the talents of that hon. bart. and to his sincerity also, no man was more willing to do justice than he was; but, without meaning any thing personally disrespectful to that hon. baronet, he must observe, that he was grieved to hear the noble lord, who was naturally to be ranked among the great men of this country— who was to be looked to as one of its probablé governors— declare such an entire concurrence in those sentiments of the hon. bart. which appeared so dangerous in their nature and character. If the evils which the hon. baronet deplored were so grievous, why did he not bring them forward in some distinct and tangible form, and not fasten a general declamation upon a question of this nature? Why not propose some practical remedy for the grievances he complained of—such a remedy as any minister could applv—and not continue to repeat his doctrine, that the whole frame of the government was not worth preserving (a loud cry of 'No, no!—Misrepresentation !' from the Opposition Benches.) The right hon. gentleman vindicated the Replies given to the Notes of both the Russian and French ministers, and contended that there was no just ground for the desponding language which was used with regard to Spain. On the contrary, the hope he entertained and acted upon at the outset, he still continued to cherish— that if Spain were true to itself it could not fail to triumph.Mr. Secretary Canning
 again called the hon. member to order.The Speaker
 was satisfied that no peace was to have been expected from the Overtures at Erfurth, but on the abandonment of Spain and that it was by arms, and not by negociation, that the fate of Spain was to be decided. Our character with Spain was still to be gained, and if we wished to inspire her with a belief that we meant to make an exertion in her favour, our conduct should have been in unison with our declaration, and not calculated to raise any doubt in the minds of the Spanish people as to our sincerity, or that we meant to bring the cause of Spain into our market.—With regard to the observations so eloquently urged by the hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett), as to the propriety of taking part in the cause of Spain, whether that was right or wrong, we had already made our election; our part was chosen, and an abandonment of it would have been alike detrimental to our honour and our interest. His lordship deprecated the tone of insult in which the answer of the right hon. secretary was conceived; but at the same time he did not see any mode by which the intentions of the French emperor could have been altered. If the last words of the Address were meant to convey that we hoped the contest was to be persevered in, though in a manner very different from that in which it had been hitherto conducted, he agreed in it. If the object, on the other hand, was to imply an approbation of what was already done, he must protest against any such meaning being put upon it. He did not think this a sinking country, but he was satisfied that nothing had been omitted by ministers to render it so.Lord H. Petty
240 thought it a very singular proof of unqualified approbation, with regard to the sentiments of the hon. baronet behind him, that he was about to vote against him. At the same time he could not hesitate to repeat, that in the principal part of the sentiments which the house had this night heard from the hon. baronet, and which were delivered with an eloquence such as could not be soon forgotten, he cordially concurred; and he would add, that there was no man in whose sentiments he would be more happy to feel it
240Lord H. Petty
 asked whether it was intended that the salary of the office was to be enjoyed by a member of parliament resident in this country without vacating his seat.Mr. Tierney
207 declared he should do every thing in his power in order to be able to go into his case against his royal highness the duke of York, relative to the exchange of major Knight and lieut. col. Brooke, with the witnesses at present in London. If he should not, he trusted the house would indulge him with some further
207Mr. Wardle
 said, he felt himself taken by surprise in this motion of the hon. gent. He however felt confident, that the letter in question, so far from exculpating the conduct of those persons, would render it still blacker; as he could prove, that they had no scruple in falsifying upon one page of their books, when it served their purpose, that which they asserted on another, and that the public suffered great injury from their conduct.— After some further conversation the motion was withdrawn.Mr. Wardle
208 adverted to the subject of certain contracts of a former year, for supplying the army with great coats, which was brought into discussion towards the close of the last session, by an hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Wardle), and rose now for the purpose of moving that there be laid before the house the copy of a letter of the 29th of June, 1808, addressed by Messrs. Pearse and Co. army clothiers, to h. r. h. the commander in chief, the production of which he was confident would vindicate the conduct and character of those respectable persons from the obloquy which had been thrown upon them by the hon.
208Mr. H. Thornton
234 said, he was astonished to hear the expressions which had been used by the hon. gent, opposite. If he had found out irregularities in any proceedings of this country, which was not impossible, he believed the hon. gent, would find it difficult in the annals of the British legislature to find a parallel to his own speech. As to the allusions made by that hon. gent, to the case of the Sybilline books, he contended, that the hon. gent's, own conduct would have been more aptly illustrated by that allusion. Thrice had the hon. gent, brought this proposition before the house, and in each succeeding time found himself in a smaller minority. The hon. gent, had even owned that on the present occasion he expected to find himself in a minority. As to the allusion made by the French minister to the Catholics of Ireland, he considered it a foul and impotent calumny, and said that it obviously meant nothing further than merely to exasperate one party against another. The Catholics of Ireland had, he understood, lately been in the habit of denying what their friends in that house advanced in their behalf. (A cry of No, no!) He had heard so; but if it were otherwise, he hoped they
234Mr. Croker
 esteemed the right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning,) the only man of any political integrity amongst the present ministers. The hon. general said, he was not afraid of the cry of Jacobinism, however much it might be the system of certain gentlemen on the other side, to hold it out as an object of terror. The noble lord opposite, whom he had the honour to call his countryman, and also the hon. gent, who had spoken last, knew practically in the year 1708 and 1709, in what Jacobinism consisted. He defied any man to say that the Catholics of Ireland were rebels. The person who should presume to say so did not deserve to live, but to die by the hands of the common executioner. He asserted that it was false, and that no communication, good, bad, or indifferent, had taken place between them and the French since the year 1796, when Arthur O'Connor met with Hoche on the borders of Switzerland. The right hon. gent, talked of atrocities: never had more atrocities been committed by the most desperate despot than by the British government. Of all despots the British government had been the worst. How they dealt with kings whom they wished to dethrone, his honourable friend (sir A. Wellesley) could inform them. In the East they did not imprison kings— they murdered them. He saw a gentleman in the house who was Secretary of ' State in Ireland in the year l798. He could tell the house what was then the situation of Ireland.General Mathew
235 said, then he must give up the year 1798, the scalping, and all the rest.—Being again called to order,
235General Mathew
 said, other members had introduced Ireland, and the Catholics of Ireland were alluded to in the Papers before the house. He would tell earl Camden, if there ever was tyranny in any country, it was in Ireland under the administration of that noble, lord.General Mathew
232231230de factode jure229sine qua nonssine qua non228l.227226225224status quo,223222 said, he rose fully confident that he could reconcile the opinion which felt it his duty on that night to state with the sentiments which on a similar occasion he had formerly delivered. He had listened with no less satisfaction than at-
232231230de factode jure229sine qua nonssine qua non228l.227226225224status quo,223222Mr. Whitbread
 wished to ask the noble lord opposite, whether there was any probability, that the public would be gratified with the publication of any part of sir John Moore's dispatches. From what fell from the noble lord on a preceding evening, he was taught to expect there would be no objection to publish certain parts of these dispatches. He had looked with great anxiety to Saturday's gazette, and was disappointed to find they did not appear in it.Mr. Whitbread
210 said, after what fell from an hon. general on a former evening, and what was known to be the wish of the friends of sir J. Moore, he had been induced to entertain hopes that certain parts of his dispatches would be published. At the same time, his agreed with the noble
210Mr. Whitbread
 said, as the hon. gent. had alluded to some words which had fallen from him on a former night, he must beg leave to explain. So far from casting any censure on the hon. gent. or imputing to him any hostile motives towards the duke of York, he said his royal highness must feel obliged to him for putting the rumours, long industriously propagated on this subject, into a tangible shape. What he had said about jacobinism and the licentiousness of the press, had no relation at all to the hon. gent. but applied to other topics, which must have been passing at the moment in every man's mind who heard him, and not what fell from the hon. gentleman.Mr. Yorke
 here interposed. He stated that this mode of interrogation was irregular, and that these were not proper questions to put to a witness.— The witness was ordered to withdraw.The Attorney General
 noticed, that witnesses to be examined ought not to have the advantage of knowing the evidence given by the preceding witnesses.Mr. Beresford farther
 stated, that the purpose for which the hon. gent. had left the house, could not be mistaken, as it was in consequence of an explanation with him respecting Dr. Thynne's farther attendance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 denied that such was by any means his intention. Whatever questions he had felt it his duty to put to the witness was with the sole view of impeaching her veracity alone, and he trusted what he had said, and what he would say, would convince the house of her whole story being a malicious fabrication, and not entitled to any credit. He was far from thinking that any thing he could say to expose her falsehoods could in the least affect the veracity of Mr. Wardle, and nothing could be farther from his intention.— The witness was then called in and re-examined.The Attorney General
 said, in explanation, that he had put a question to the hon. gent, opposite him, from having observed him leave the house, and, on his return, proceed to a course of examination, in which he appeared to put answers in the witness's mouth. He did not suspect the hon. gent, of any bad intention, and firmly believed, that his disavowal of such intention was sincere.Mr. Beresford
 asked if there were other witnesses to be produced? and Mr. Wardle declared himself satisfied to let his case rest there.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 I wish to be informed if the hon. gent, intends to answer the question put to him or not? (A loud cry of Chair! Chair!)Mr. Canning.
 said it was not the intention of his learned friend (the Attorney-General) to put questions to impeach the veracity of the hon, member, but for the purpose of comparing the communications which he had received from Mrs. Clarke, with the evidence which she had given, with a view to impeach her veracity.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
310 was anxious to know what course the hon.
310The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that by sending the names of the officers intended to be called as witnesses, to the war-office, it might easily be ascertained whether they had arrived or not, or whether it was likely they might soon arrive.Lord Castlereagh
 could not forbear expressing his surprise and regret that any lion, member should have been so precipitate in giving notice of a motion, and in laying down the grounds of it, before he had ascertained whether the witnesses which were to be called to substantiate his charges were or were not in readiness to attend. Was it of so light and inconsiderate a thing, to insinuate such serious charges against any individual, much less an individual of the high rank and station of the Commander in Chief, without having the immediate means of proving whether they were well founded or not?Mr. S. Bourne
298 observed, that it had been determined, in more instances than one, that no member had a right to examine another, except in a Committee of Inquiry. In this case the house was in that situation, and it was proper that any member, who could give any information, or throw any light on the subject, should be examined; for instance, a member, Mr. Bid-
298The Speaker
 was as desirous as any gentleman could be, that the business might be proceeded in with every possible dispatch. It would however be necessary, for him to wait the arrival from Spain of several essential witnesses, among others capt. Huxley Sandon, and maj.-gen. French. Indeed, he could not well say when they might arrive, as no return having been made of the killed and wounded, it was even impossible to say whether they were living or not.Mr. Wardle
 said, that he was not a'varc of the delay, and that he never intended any. He should do all in his power to accelerate the business, and would be ready to bring forward the case of captain Maling on Friday.Mr. Wardle
 said, that from the moment he left the room, he never asked the witness a question respecting this business, nor had the slightest intention of it.Mr. Wardle
 who had left the house for a short time, observed, that if the hon. gent, alluded to him, he could say. That he went out merely for the purpose of informing Dr. Thynne, that his farther attendance was not necessary that night. In that interval he had not had any conversation with any of the witnesses except Mrs. Clarke, who asked who was under examination at the time? And he answered Mr. Knight.Mr. Wardle,
 said, He conceived himself perfectly correct in the questions he had put; and it was far from him to wish to do any tiling that did not meet the concurrence of the Committee.Mr. Wardle
266265 in proceeding to the investigation he proposed, felt it necessary
266265Mr. Wardle,
 said, as the hon. gent. had asked the last witness if she had been, at a certain period, under the protection of the Duke of York, he wished to ask whether that lady was not now under the protection of the hon. gent.?Mr. Fuller
 stated, that it was in the recollection of the Committee, most probably, that the account which his hon. friend had given of his conversation with the witness, was merely an answer to her question, who was then examining.Mr. Whitbread
 thought that the right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning) was precipitate in putting the question which he had done to Mr. Wardle, as he thought his fatigue afforded a claim for further time.Mr. Whitbread
 spoke to order. He did not think it was regular or usual for a member bringing forward a charge, to undergo an examination, to disclose where and how he got his information.Mr. Whitbread
311 contended, that no man had ever been exposed to a case more severe and cruel than that in which the hon. gent, had so hastily involved his royal highness the duke of York. Where was the urgent haste which impelled the hon. gent, to give notice of a motion, containing such grave matter of accusation against so exalted a personage, before he knew whether the evidence he was to call, in proof of his charges, not only were in, the country, but even whether they were in existence or not r Could any thing be more cruel than that calumnies should remain upon the characters of those who perhaps had fallen in their country's cause, and upon him who had promoted them,
311Mr. William Adam
 said it was competent for the honourable gentleman to explain the circumstance in his place.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had no objection to the attendance of any person from the office of the Commander in Chief; but he thought the house ought not to be too prompt in making orders for the production of such books, without knowing whether such were in existence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to move the order of the day, for the second reading of the Militia Enlistment bill: but as this bill differed nothing in principle from the bill of last year, and as he had so recently given his opinion at length upon its various details, he should abstain from troubling the house in this stage by repeating those opinions, but reserve himself for any objections that might be offered to it.Lord Custlereagh
 answered from six guineas to eleven.Lord Castlereagh
 argued against the bill, The only consequence of the former measure for allowing the transfer of men from the militia to the line, had been mutiny, drunkenness, and insubordination. He must do his royal highness the Commander in Chief the justice to say, that in executing the former bill he had religiously adhered to the letter of it, and he would recommend the civil department of his majesty's government to imitate his royal highness's conduct in this respect.Mr. Bastard
318 asserted, that it was admitted, on all hands, that some measure for augmenting the regular army was both proper and necessary. No other means but the present could be found for answering that purpose except a military conscription. It might be necessary for this country, in the present circumstances of the world, to act a great part on the continent, and that was only to be done by increasing the amount of the regular army of the country Though the operation of the ballot might be a hardship, that hardship would be greatly relieved by the provisions of his noble friend's
318The Secretary at War
 said, that the events which had taken place might convince us that we ought not to trust to a mere defensive force, of whatever description; whether armed peasantry, local militia, or even militia. All systems were liable to objection; but the question was, whether this was not the best that could be adopted at present? He never understood, that the plan of the right hon. gent. (Mr.Windham) had been abandoned: but, at the same time, it was not sufficient for procuring an immediate supply, which was what was now wanted.Mr. Lockhart
323322321320 said, that although the house was pledged to the throne on the principle of increasing the army, yet the best mode of carrying that principle into effect was certainly a very fair matter for discussion, He, for his part, must support the plan which he had presented, and which appeared to him likely to increase considerably the disposable force, without at the same time impairing the defensive strength of the country, An hon. gent. had stated, that he objected to the increase of the disposable force, until there was an administration more capable of wielding it with advantage to the country. This was certainly no objection to the measure itself; for if the hon. gent. would point out to the house who these men were who would manage the strength of the empire with greater ability, and more to the public advantage; if that hon. gent, and his friends, who were sitting
323322321320Lord Castlereagh
 moved, that a proper person from the office of the Secretary to the Commander in Chief, do attend this house to-morrow with the books containing all applications made by subaltern officers to purchase promotions, within the period that three commissions were given to captain Maling.Mr. Wardle
312 expressed a hope that he should be permitted to-morrow to examine some further evidence upon the points under consideration of the Committee yesterday.
312Mr. Wardle
313 said it undoubtedly was the wish of the noble personage now at the head of the Irish government, that no one should be appointed to that situation during his absence. It was certainly in the power of the noble duke to appoint some other person to fill that situation, if he had chose, during his absence; and he was prepared to expect it would have been done, had his absence continued much longer, But from personal kindness to him, the noble duke certainly retained his name in that situation while he went abroad with the army and during the two months he was absent, he certainly received part of the salary of that office; but then there was some part of that time for which he did not receive the full pay attached to his military situation; and every man who considered the nature of that situation, must be aware, that it was liable to very
313Sir A. Wellesley
 agreed with the Secretary at War, that the military force of the country ought to he placed on the most respectable footing. It was but a few months since they had been told, that the army was then upon the highest establishment of which the circumstances of the country admitted. The noble lord ought therefore to state what the diminution was which had taken place in that army since that period. The papers presented last year shewed that the army then consisted of nearly 240.000 men, while the papers then on the table shewed its amount to be only 210.000. It was the duty of the noble lord. Therefore, to shew how this diminution had taken place.—The hon. gent. then entered into a defence of the military system of his right hon. friend (Mr. Windham.) which he contended had not had a fair trial. That system had produced, whilst in force, a supply of nearly 24.000 annually, a supply as great as the circumstances of the population of this country would admit of. He did not look to our acting any great military part on the Continent, and hoped that before we attempted any such operation, we should maturely weigh the circumstances, and the scene upon which we should have to act. This was the fourth instance in which the militia had been drafted to supply the army, and the effect of this practice had been to drive qualified officers out of that force. He did not think it possible to recruit the militia by the bounty proposed by the noble lord's measure, If men were wanted for the public service, they should be raised at the public expence.Mr. Calcraft
 said that although he did not wish to trouble the house with any observation on the subject, yet he should feel it his duty on a future day to submit a resolution to the house, That the office of chief secretary for Ireland was an efficient office.Mr. Whitbread
 rose to repeat a question he had asked on a former night, in the absence of a gallant officer, now in his place, but to which he was not then able to obtain any satisfactory answer. He wished, therefore, to learn, from the gallant officer opposite to him, Whether, while he was fighting the battles of his country on the continent, he still continued to hold the appointment and salary of Secretary to the lord lieutenant of Ireland?Mr. Whitbread
 wished to know the rate of bounties proposed by his noble friend.Mr. Elliot
315l.l.314 expressed his great reluctance in opposing any bill having for its object to place the public force of the country on that respectable footing on which it ought to stand, His objection, however was to the system on which the bill was founded. He should not detain the house by going minutely into all its details, but should confine himself to its general heads. It afforded a striking lesson to the house and to the country, of the evil consequences of adopting a bad precedent, Heretofore, previously to the introduction of a similar bill, there was much of detail and preparatory communication with colonels of regiments, But the former measure of his noble friend being adopted, he relied that in this too he should be successful, His majesty's speech, at the opening of the session, certainly recommended to parliament every attention to an increase of the disposable army of the country, without impairing the means of home defence; but he thought it was impossible to attempt the former by means of this bill, without materially injuring the latter. He did not condemn the colonels of regiments for their anxiety to adopt the readiest means for filling up the ranks of their corps; but he did most decidedly condemn the principles of a bill, the operation of which would inevitably tend to the dissolution of all discipline both in the regular army and militia, as well as to the injury of morality throughout the country; for such would be the effect of high boun-
315l.l.314Mr. Elliot
319 thought that it was as necessary to attend to the manner in which the military means of the country were employed, as to the numerical amount of our force. He allowed, however, that the great point was the consistency of the house. It was true, parliament was pledged to increase the military means of the country; but the question was, whether the regular army might not, by this measure, be increased
319Colonel Frankland
 approved of the establishment of the Local Militia, as securing the country against exposure to the danger of invasion. He also considered the success of a similar measure, in a late instance as a good ground for the present.Mr. D. Giddy
317316 contended, that the recruiting of the regiments of the line from the militia ranks, was the most prompt and efficacious mode of rendering the former what they ought to be, and of rendering the physical strength of the country formidable to the enemy. The recent victories in Portugal and at Corunna were achieved by the men recruited from the militia ranks, and it was by transferring
317316Colonel Wood
 wished to know, before he could agree to augment the disposable force, what it was intended to do with it. The noble lord had stated last year, that after allowing for the home defence, there would be 00.000 men convertible to purposes of foreign service, He wished to know where these men were. Unless we meant to repeat such scenes as the Convention of Cintra, or the retreat in Spain. we stood in need of no additional force; for it was childish to talk of danger of invasion with our superior navy. Rome had been unable to conquer Sicily until she had subdued the Carthaginean fleet. He objected to the measure also on the ground of its changing the constitutional principle of the militia of the country.Sir T. Turton
 said, that the noble lord had now shewn us the nature and spirit of the measure, for the transfer was not now made on an emergency, but in contemplation of an emergency. So that this was now to become a regular system from year to year. This, he said, was a very bal mode of increasing the regular army, and as a regular system, he had the strongest objection to it. His lordship also defended the plan of his rt. hon. friend (Mr. Windham), and stated, that when the noble lord laid his cold fingers upon it, it was producing at the rate of 24,000 a year, instead of the 13,000 produced by the noble lord; and out of the 27,000 that volunteered from the Militia, 20,000 were for limited service at a lower bounty.Earl Temple
l.s.l.l.s.l.l.326s.l.s.l. moved that 130,000 seamen should be employed for the year 1809, including 31,400 royal marines, which were voted accordingly. The hon. gent. then stated, that the Estimates for this number of seamen and marines were precisely the same in amount with the estimates of the last year, though it had been thought desirable to make some alterations in the comparative amount of some of the branches. The allowance for wear and tear was last year taken at three pound per man, whilst the provision for victuals was estimated at 1l.s.l.l.s.l.l.326s.l.s.l.Mr. Ward
 observed, that in the explanation of the hon. member, there was some ambiguity, in as much as the words "as I before stated" might be construed to the correction of the former evidence now first given as well as to the former statement of the honourable gentleman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
333 then desired the proper persons to ascertain whether Mr. Few was in attendance. He stated that his object was to contradict that part of the evidence of Mrs. Clarke, in which she had said that she never represented herself as a widow, while she lived in Tavistock-
333The Attorney General
 thought it quite needless to go any farther in the contradiction of Mrs. Clarke's evidence, as she had been sufficiently contradicted already, to prove that she was a person unworthy of belief. Indeed, what the house had heard from herself was almost, if not a together, enough for this purpose. He had suffered great pain in seeing a witness of such a description standing at the bar of that house, and examined with respect to the conduct of his royal highness. Mr. Knight, a most respectable gentleman, had already contradicted her, and he was in hopes that the house would see no further occasion for proceeding in examining into private amours. Almost every member in the house must be convinced that this was a character unworthy of credit, and it was excessively unpleasant to go on with any thing farther about her. It might be thought that he took a great deal upon himself, in advising the hon. and learned gent. as to the course he should pursue. But he considered it as a degradation to the house to proceed farther into the history of this infamous woman, for so he must call her.Mr. Beresford
corpus delicti334 observed, that the discussion was undoubtedly an unpleasant one, but though it was un-
corpus delicti334The Chancellor of the Exchequer
335 said, that in the evidence which he adduced he always looked at the distinct point under consideration. The subject here was the conduct of h. r. h. the Duke of York, with regard to the army; and the particular question was, whether he had conducted himself corruptly in granting commissions with a view to put money in the pockets of those whom he wished to favour. That there were persons about him, as almost always happened in such cases, who represented themselves as possessed of influence; and that there were dupes credulous enough to believe them, and to waste their money, he had no doubt. No witness had attempted to fix any charge upon h. r. h. but Mrs. Clarke; and if the
335The Attorney General
 observed, that this was a very unpleasant duty; but it was the duty of the house to do justice by the country as well as by the duke of York. He thought gentlemen ought to remain from discussing the merits of the case till the evidence was printed and laid before them. Before they called their witnesses, they ought to allow the hon. gent. to proceed with his charges, and finish them.Sir Francis Burdett
 observed, that after the hon. gent. had finished this charge, it was understood that the answer was to be given, and the house had before acted upon that principle, by calling col. Gordon, Mr. Adam, and the hon. gent. himself who had brought forward the charges. The witnesses now called upon were summoned, not with a view to the whole of the charges, but to give their testimony upon that which was now closed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. then desired Ludo-wick Orramin to be called. Mrs. Clarke, he observed, had said that she was sure the duke of York knew she got the 200l.The Attorney General
 said, as the other witnesses he had intended to call were not at hand, he would take an opportunity of calling them some other time.The Attorney General
 replied, there could be no objection, and wished the hon. gent. to give in their names.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 deprecated all personal aspersions upon members of that house, and conceived, that if a threatening letter from an anonymous person was criminal, a threatening manner to that house was not less culpable.Mr. Lyttleton
 wished the Inquiry to be proceeded with. The committee would recollect that they had a charge from the house to investigate the conduct of h. r. h. the Commander in Chief. The public impression against capt. Maling, and against the Commander in Chief, was a gross injustice therefore to both, and an injustice to the country. The charge ought to be negatived in evidence, and the committee must not be satisfied with the bare contradiction of it by the hon. accuser himself.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the difference was material. The hon. gent. had said on a recent evening, that capt. Maling was still to be found at Mr. Greenwood's desk. Did he mean to deny this, or, not denying it, did he mean to relinquish that part of his charge?Mr. D. Browne
345 observed, that in such a
345Mr. Lascelles
347— Consequently he could not be an aid-de-camp. The statement of the thing was considered as sufficient; the regiment being ordered for embarkation, the Commander in Chief would not permit it, nor could the officer, consistently with his own honour, accept it. The next that we heard of lieut. Maling, now capt. Maling, was on the augmentation of the royal African corps from four companies to six companies. In the month of last September it became necessary for the Commander in Chief to recommend to his majesty two officers to till those vacant companies. Lieut. Maling having been recommended to the notice of the Commander in Chief, from the paper now before the house, he was selected for one of those vacant companies: hut before he was so selected, I spoke to his brother, and asked him if he could answer, that if his brother, lieut. Maling, was appointed to a company in the African corps, that he would join that corps, and go with them instantly to Goree; the brother assured me that he would answer for his doing so; in consequence of which I submitted his name to the Commander in Chief for one of those vacant companies, to which he was accordingly appointed. After he was appointed, I sent for capt. Maling, and repeated to him, as nearly as I can recollect, the very words I repeated to his brother, He expressed himself much honoured in the appointment, much flattered with my notice; and that he was in readiness to set off instantly to the army depot, to which place I believe he did set off Many of the African corps were at that time on board a prison-ship. When this prison-ship became too crowded to hold all the men that it was necessary to put into it, a detachment was sent to Castle Cornet, in the
347Colonel Gordon.
 interfered, and submitted, that in his judgment this question was quite irregular. If the object before the committee was that of going to constitute some legislative regulations in the army, such an interrogatory would be right enough; but when gentlemen would advert to the nature of the case before them he thought they never could entertain such a question. The point of the charge against the Commander-in-Chief was, that in this transaction there was corruption: without anticipating how they would decide, he might fairly assume that no such thing was made out; arid as on all hands it would be granted that the Commander-in-Chief had a discretionary power in such cases, which this question went to controul, he thought it ought not to be put.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion that the question might be modified or withdrawn altogether, and this last he understood the hon. colonel had no objection to.Sir F. Burdett
 observed, that it was not within the province of the committee to decide upon the Charges. It was their duty to report the evidence to the house, under whose correction they acted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 informed the hon. gent, opposite, that he had enquired whether capt. Huxley Sandon had arrived at Portsmouth, that he found he had, and that orders had been sent to him to come up to town.Lord Castlereagh
360 observed, that if that officer should not arrive in time for the next examination, the hon. member
360The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know when the hon. gent, would be prepared to bring forward the next Charge, and which he would commence with.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked which Charge the hon. gent, meant to bring forward first? He was not precluded from fixing on which he pleased; but the committee had a right to see that no delay took place. He would not believe that the hon. gent. would prefer Charges of this serious kind, relying on the absence of the witnesses.Mr. See. Canning
 saw no right any gentleman had to compel his hon. friend to proceed in the absence of any of his witnesses. He was asking no more than common indulgence, in desiring that he might have till Monday to fix an early day for proceeding. The business already standing in the order book, for Monday, was more than sufficient for that day.Lord Folkestone
361 said, it might be found that there was enough standing in
361Mr. Secretary Canning
362 considered it a most unfounded insinuation to construe what he had said into a threat or a supposition that his official weight was to have any influence on the determination of the committee. He should however say, that he believed the hon. gent.'s affectation of candour would have as little weight. The hon. gent. had disclaimed all knowledge or participation in this accusation, both for himself and all those who sat near
362Mr. Sec. Canning
 said, that after the attack which had been made from the other side of the house, he felt it requisite for him to say, that if this was the way that persons who came forward with accusations were to be assisted by the wisdom of the house, there would be very little encouragement for any member to put himself forward for the detection of any great public abuses. He could not tell who the right hon. secretary alluded to; but, for himself, he would be ashamed to disclaim publicly any thing which a member of parliament might do with perfect propriety. If any member in the house had been consulted on those charges before they were brought in, he might with perfect propriety give his opinion (whatever it might be) upon the subject. For his part, he should continue to discharge his parliamentary duty according to the best of his judgment, without fearing the comments which others might make upon his conduct. He thought his hon. friend entitled to protection, as he had in a very incautious manner exposed himself to considerable obloquy. He would deprecate, as contrary to the ends of justice, any appearance of indecent precipitation in the committee in forcing the hon. gent, to proceed in his charges, at a time that he declared himself not to be quite ready. It did appear to him, that the hon. accuser had acted in the most fair, candid, and even incautious manner; and that much of the reproach which he had unjustly incurred, had arisen from his desire to comply with the indecent hurry of the gentlemen opposite.Sir F. Burdett
 admitted that the lion, baronet had taken a manly part: that he had stated his reasons frankly, and he knew he had ability to maintain them. But, what would be said if there was a person who had secretly advised—who bad secretly been consulted, and who sheltered himself in silence under that broad disclaiming shield which an hon. gent, had thrown over himself and his friends? If such a person existed, he must apply to his conduct terms very different from those which he had in justice applied to that of the hon. baronet.Mr. Sec. Canning
 said, the hon. gent, himself had admitted it.Mr. Canning
 protested against this unparliamentarily mode of calling on one hon. member to name another.Mr. Yorke
 informed the hon. member, that the time for offering any thing relevant to his former evidence, would be, when the house should have resolved itself into a committee. The matter then immediately before the house, was the notice the hon. gent. had yesterday given, of a motion for certain Papers or Books, from the Office of the Commander in Chief.The Speaker
 begged to call the attention of the committee to the correction he had to make of his former evidence. He had on the former night stated that he had not seen Mrs. Clarke on Tuesday morning, though he had waited a considerable time in her drawing-room for the purpose of seeing her. On recollection, however, he found that it was on Monday he had waited a long time in the drawing-room, and that on the morning of Tuesday he had seen Mrs. C. for a few minutes, as well as in the evening, as he had before stated.Mr. Wardle
328 declared that he meant the words "as I before stated" to apply solely to the interview which he had with Mrs. Clarke, for a few minutes in her drawing-room, on Tuesday evening, and which he had stated in his former examination.328Mr. Wardle
 previous to going into the Committee of Inquiry into the Conduct of his royal highness the Duke of York, wished to correct the error to which he had alluded yesterday, in his former evidence.Mr. Wardle,
 said, that as the gentlemen opposite did not think it necessary to give in beforehand the names of their witnesses, he would certainly avail himself of the same privilege he possessed, and would not give in the names of his witnesses. He wished to put a few questions to Mr. Adam, as every thing he said in the house on this subject had great weight, from his having declared he served the Duke of York gratuitously.Mr. Wardle
 said, that he hoped there would be no objection to his calling one or two witnesses also, in consequence of what had passed since he submitted his case.Mr. Wardle
 said he had many reasons for wishing to fix Tuesday instead of Monday. He was not yet able to discover where a Mrs. Shaw lived. He had been told that she was in Bath, and his agent had inquired there, but found she had left it. He believed she would be a material witness. He wished for no unnecessary delay, but he hoped that the usual indulgence of the house would grant him a few days to consider which Charge he should next go into. He would even engage to communicate to-morrow to the rt. hon. gent, in private the Charge he meant next to proceed on, and to give the list of witnesses whose attendance he should require.Mr. Wardle
 observed that capt. Huxley Sandon was a material witness in every Charge, and that the probability of his being able to attend on Monday, did not seem to be very great.Mr. Wardle
 seemed to think Monday too early a day, and said that it was impossible for him to state what particular Charge he should bring forward. (Murmurs.)Mr. Wardle
349 said he was ready to withdraw the question, or to put it in any shape which the committee would suggest. It was his intention to move for a list of all officers, who, from the year 1805 to 1808, had made applications of a like nature
349Mr. Wardle
 said, that what he intended to state was, that after the appointment of Mr. Maling to an ensigncy, he believed he was to be found at Mr. Greenwood's desk.Mr. Wardle
 wished to acquiesce in the general wishes of the committee, either to withdraw or to proceed with the charge. It was possible that in the warmth of discussion he might have stated in this charge something stronger than the case admitted. But on referring to his own notes he had no idea to make any other impression than that which he himself felt on the rapid promotion of capt. Maling over deserving officers, his seniors in the army. He was certain that he did never assert that that officer was promoted without, having ever served, because he well recollected that he alluded to his having been a pay-master in Ireland.Mr. Wardle
 considered it his duty, before he submitted his Charge against the Commander in Chief in the promotion of capt. Maling, to positively state, that he believed that gentleman as proper an officer as any of his rank in the service. Every inquiry he had made went to prove that his conduct was strictly honourable. It would appear from the Gazette, that capt. Maling was appointed to his ensigncy in Nov. 1805; that he was promoted to his lieutenancy in the same month of the year.1806; and obtained a company on the 5th of Sept. 1808. His majesty's regulations had prescribed, that every officer should continue for a limited time in his subaltern situation. But his complaint in this case was, that capt. Maling was promoted over the heads of officers, many years his seniors in the army, and who were many of them lieutenants long before he received his appointment to an ensigncy. This was a most cruel system; and, in the present instance, he conceived it particularly aggravated, inasmuch as the promotion of capt. Maling was throughout gratuitous, to the injury of old subalterns who had applied to purchase companies at the re-of time, but also recommended by wounds received in the cause of their sovereign and country. It was undeniable that such a system was vitally injurious to the best interests of the country, and, of course, to prevent its recurrence, was of material importance. If any improper conception of the nature of this charge had gone a broad, he felt extreme regret, but it was his duty to take advantage of subsequent opportunities in order to explain himself. His charge was, that capt. Maling had, in the short space of two years and three months received his three commissions, and was appointed to a company over the heads of many subalterns who had made application to the Commander in Chief for leave to purchase, and who were old ensigns and lieutenants long before that gentleman left Mr. Greenwood's office. He did, he believed, state on the former night that capt. Maling continued to fulfil his duty to Mr. Greenwood, some months after his appointment to an ensigncy.Mr. Wardle
 thought it the duty of any member in bringing such serious charges previously to ascertain the facts on which he intended to proceed. He had to complain that this-was not the only instance in which the hon. member had shewn himself deficient in the necessary information. The instance in the case of col. French was mote aggravated; that officer the hon. member had never seen, and though his evidence was most material, he was now out of the reach cither of him or of that house. It was cruelty to attack persons so distinguished in rank and office, on points where it was impossible to bring the proofs forward which were necessary to substantiate the accusation.Mr. Wortley
 had attended most accurately to the hon. gent.'s original statement, which was that capt. Maling had not been one hour in the service, and that he was still to he found at Mr. Greenwood's desk. If the hon. gent, had stated his charge on a former night, as he had just done, he should have felt it his duty to move, that the house should reject the consideration of it, as a matter in which the judgment and discretion of the Commander in Chief ought freely to be exercised.Mr. Croker
 thought that as the committee hail that night heard one of the Charges, and had completely made up their minds upon it, they should come to a decision upon that Charge.Mr. Croker
l.l. defended the reading of the letter in warm terms, and amid loud cries of Order !order !He said, the house did not do their duty, and ought to be whipped, if they did not offer a reward of 500l.l.Mr. Fuller
 You had better all go home and go to bed. (A loud laugh.)Mr. Fuller.
 said, that he hoped every examination would be proceeded in that the case could possibly admit of, as it was of importance that this subject should be probed to the bottom. This, he was convinced, was the foulest conspiracy that ever was set on foot against the Son of the Crown, (a laugh) and indirectly against the Crown itself. He desired, that the evidence might proceed, and expressed his hopes, that an honourable man would he fully acquitted by his honourable countrymen.Mr. Fuller
 called on the right hon. gent, to state the ground of his belief, that his hon. friend (Mr. Smith) stated what he had done without any authority.Mr. Barham
 said, there was no occasion for rough language, particularly us he had gone along with the hon. gent. in all his feelings as a man and a father. He had only expressed his disapprobation of having such letters brought into the minutes of the House,.Mr. Ellison
 thought the hon. gent. was bound to establish all the statements which he had made in the opening of the business,Mr. Ellison
 observed, that it was unworthy the character of an individual to pay attention to anonymous letters, and condemned Mr. Adam for having brought this before the House.Mr. Ellison
 conceived, that through some error the question put to his hon. friend (Mr. Adam) was taken down incorrectly by the note taker The question, as taken by the note taker, was simply, whether Mr. Adam had a son a lieut.-col. in the army. Whereas the actual question was. that Mr. Adam having stated, that he acted for the Commander in Chief gratuitously, he (Mr. Wardle) wished to know whether his learned friend had not a son in the army. Meaning by the import and spirit of his interrogatory to convey, that the services of his learned friend were remunerated by the promotion of his son.— The interrogatory was, with Mr. Wardle's admission, corrected according to the wish expressed by Mr. Sheridan.Mr. Sheridan
 expressed his surprise, that his hon. friend was not disposed to proceed with this business on Monday, and also to declare the particular Charge which he meant first to adduce. It was impossible but that he himself should be ready, and if the witnesses should not be here at the time, it would be competent to him then to defer the proceeding.Mr. Sheridan
364 stated, that he had used the freedom some days ago, understanding that
364Mr. Sheridan
 repeated, that this was too serious a thing to be passed over, and he again called on the right hon. gent, to name the person whom he described as having sheltered himself in unmanly silence.Mr. Whitbread
 replied, that if the right hon. gent, had sat near him, he would not have been surprised at his feelings; when the right hon. secretary, by a direct insinuation, and by his gestures and looks, evidently directed towards himself, had pointed him out as the object of his attack.Mr. Whitbread
 with great warmth, accused the right honourable secretary of making a covert attack on some individual, whom he did not venture openly to denounce, and called upon him, with the same manliness which he had praised so highly in the hon. bait, to name the person to whom he alluded. (A pause of half a minute: cries of "Name! Name!") If the right hon. gent, would not name the person, it must be taken for granted that he had no ground for his insinuation.Mr. Whitbread,
 said, that he had no idea of proposing to insert the letter in the Minutes of the Committee, until some member across the table whispered the propriety of doing so. He however contended and must insist, that the evidence whit h he had felt it his duty to give in answer to the interrogatory of the hon. member, should continue to constitute a part of the proceedings.Mr. Adam
341 replied, that lie felt it incumbent on him to do so from its singular coincidence with the question that had been put to him. It was written to deter him from doing his duty, and to libel the house of commons, both of which were
341Mr. Adam
 stated his wish to explain a circumstance adverted to in one of Mrs. Clarke's letters, in order to prevent any misconception. The child alluded to in the letter was not a child of the duke's. It was also his duty to state, that this child had long been under the protection of the duke of York, and and was actually so at the time the letter was written, as the letter itself implied, which was nearly two years after the separation had taken place.Mr. Adam
 said, that as to the candour of the right hon. secretary, or his (Mr. Smith's) affectation of candour which he did not possess, he was willing to throw himself on the candour of the house to judge between him and the right hon. gent. As to the other charge, of his having spoken without authority from gentlemen who sat on the same side of the house with him, he had heard similar declarations to that which he himself had made from every person on that side of the house, who had at all spoken on the subject. Of course, therefore, if he had spoken in their names without any actual authority from them to that effect, he had not spoken without some knowledge of their sentiments.Mr. W. Smith
 agreed that he could see no reason why the hon. member should not have made up his mind on that subject. But though he could not sec it, the hon. gent, might have reasons for it in his own mind, which were perfectly satisfactory. One reason for not fixing the farther proceeding for Monday the hon. gent. had already stated, namely, the absence of Mrs. Shaw. These were Charges of a serious nature, no doubt, but they were also Charges in which the public were interested, and gentlemen would not consult the true character of the house or of the king if the person preferring such Charges was treated with unkindness and browbeating. He thought, on the contrary, that the accuser, as well as the accused, should be treated in the most impartial manner. He thought this justice was the more peculiarly due to the accuser, when a right hon. secretary (Mr. Canning) had thrown out a sort of threat to him, in saying, that infamy must attach somewhere. This threat, however, notwithstanding the high authority and official weight of the quarter from whence it proceeded, would not, as he believed, produce its object. No person on that side of the house where he sat could have any interest in supporting the hon. gent. They had not been consulted on the subject of the Charges, or on the mode of bringing them forward. As the hon. gent, however, relied on himself alone, he should be treated with kindness. It would be odd if gentlemen on the other side of the house, who expressed such anxiety to meet the Charges, should now, by pushing on the hon. member while his proof was incomplete, defeat the very object which they stated they had so much at heart.Mr. W. Smith
 said it was impossible what he had said in reply could be the foundation for the original insinuation made by the right hon. gentleman.Mr. W. Smith
343 was anxious to ascertain the distinct charge on which the hon. member wished then to proceed. The
343Mr. Sturges Bourne
l.l. could not suffer this subject to pass, without expressing a hope, that his majesty's ministers entertained a disposition to regulate the course of proceeding at Doctors' Commons. It was his opinion, that the offices of king's advocate and king's proctor ought to be divided. He did not mean to object to the vole of any sum for the navy; but he mustadd, that he should like to see those who were to manage the expenditure of it, such as ten commissioners of the navy and of victualling, selected from amongst naval men. The practice, as well as the whole system of selecting officers of the army for such offices, he deemed altogether improper, as the appointment of persons not acquainted with naval affairs, to such situations, could not but be most mischievous. In the estimates then under consideration, he lamented that he did not see any provision made for the protection and support of the orphans of marine officers, and hoped that before the end of the session, some establishment, corresponding to the Compassionate Fund for the army, should be instituted for the navy. This he looked upon as a proper time for mentioning the subject; and if it should not be taken up by his majesty's ministers, in whose hands it most properly ought to be left, he should feel it to be his duty to submit the matter to the house in the course of the session.l.l.Sir C. Pole
344 declared, that he could not see how the house could enter upon any inquiry at all into the business, as now stated by the hon. gent. He perfectly agreed with the hon. gent. who had immediately preceded him, in the nature of the hon. gent.'s original accusation, but he now found that the charge preferred
344Colonel Wood
371 rose, rather for the purpose of moving the previous question, than to confirm the statement of his gallant friend, which could not need any thing to aid its credit with the house. It was, undoubtedly, well understood, both here and in Ireland, that if any inconvenience had been felt, another would have been appointed. But so ur-
371The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the order of the day, for resuming the adjourned debate, on the motion, That the Speaker do issue his warrant for a new Writ for Poole, in the room of Mr. Jeffery, who had accepted the office of consul general in Portugal—On the debate being resumed, the question was put that a new writ be issued.Lord Folkestone
 explained. The pension of the first had been granted under peculiar circumstances. It was to a man very far advanced in years, who had been 40 years in the public service. Mr. Drake, the consul at Venice, lost the whole of his fortune on the subversion of the Venetian government. He recommended that he should have a pension, not on the ground of right, but as a case of compassion. In this application he did not succeed.Mr. Canning
 allowed that the seat of Mr. Jeffery was vacated by his acceptance of the appointment.Mr. Rose
374l.l.373 commented on the hon. gent.'s introduction of subjects into this discussion not at all connected with, it. On looking into the matter, he was convinced that Mr. Jeffery by the acceptance of this appointment had vacated his seat so completely, that he was not even eligible to become a candidate for re-election. His hon. friend had, however, completely mistaken the common practice, when he supposed that the appointment to the situation of consul, or secretary of legation, necessarily gave a man a claim to remuneration from the public when his office ceased. The fact was, that pensions were never granted to men for having filled the situation of consul, except under very special circumstances. The appoint-
374l.l.373Mr. Secretary Canning
 answered, that the consequence found, to arise from the measure applying to Ireland, was, that more grain had been used in that country, in clandestine distilleries, since June last, than had formerly been used in one year. Not one hogshead of sugar had been used; and as the object of the Bill was avowedly for the purpose of consuming that article, therefore it had entirely failed, and Ireland ought to be exempted from its operation. It had been found, too, that it, had materially injured the revenue upon malt in Ireland'. The result, indeed, had been, that the people of Ireland, whose feeling was a contempt of the law, and a disposition not to obey it, had taught the present government that that Bill could not be enforced. When the agriculture of the country was put into one scale, and the consumption of sugar into the other, the probability was, that the farmers of the country would have no disposition to sup-press the clandestine distilleries. It was found, also, that they even exported corn to foreign countries. It was therefore found; improper to put the two countries, Great J Britain and Ireland, upon the same footing. The Irish had never been more happy than last year, in having a very fine and large crop of their favourite at tide of food—potatoes; and therefore less corn had been actually consumed in any other mode than that of distillation.Mr. Foster
 thought the measure had not been fairly tried in Ireland. It ought to be inquired into what were the causes of its failure in Ireland. He understood that the Irish distillers complained of the mode of collecting the duties which were imposed; not upon the extent of their stills, but upon the number of gallons of their wash; from which the same number of gallons of spirits could not be produced, as in England. To exempt Ireland from the operation of the Bill, would be encouraging an improper degree of exportation of corn from this country. In every point of view he thought Ireland ought to be included.Mr. Marriot
 argued in favour of the exemption of Ireland, as the bill bad been found not to operate there to advantage, either in regard to the revenue, or to the relief of the West India planters.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, observed, that every person who knew him must be convinced (hat he was not capable of being guilty of the charge alledged by the hen. gent.; but this much he must say, that any person that made such a charge against him; would be capable of committing it himself.Mr. Foster,
375 thought the measure had
375Mr. Hibbert
 thought, that if ever the old system of things returned in Europe, and all our consuls were paid fine salaries, they should not be allowed to sit in that house, or otherwise ministers could bring their consuls from Flanders to vote as readily as their friends from Ireland.Mr. Johnstone
l.372 observed, that having given this subject the fullest consideration, he was prepared to state some arguments upon it, if the question had given rise to discussion. The house would not be surprised if the consideration of this question led him to call its attention to the Report of the Committee of Finance, which he had the honour to present to the house at the close of last session: and something had happened within the present session which "more particularly Galled upon him to advert to that report. There was m that report a suggestion respecting those, who, having been ministers at foreign courts, were enjoying pensions for their services. Whether any further reports would be made from that committee, it was not for him to say. The suggestion in the Report recommended, that foreign ministers should, in future, be supplied by a selection from those who were now enjoying pensions for past services. Yet, since the Report was presented, three new appointments had taken place, and the last Gazette added two more to the number, without any one of them having been selected from those who had acquired experience in their line. Upon any principle of public economy, it would be obvious that, generally speaking, such persons alone ought to be appointed, because their pensions would then cease, and so far a beneficial saving accrue to the public. The suggestion was certainly not presumptuous, because, though it recom-
l.372Mr. Bankes
 cited the instance of a secretary of legation at Dresden who had been pensioned, and of a Mr. Drake, who had been consul at Venice, having been also pensioned. He instanced the same thing in the cases of the consuls at Algiers, Tripoli, and Tunis.Mr. Bankes
370 begged leave to repeat what he had said on a former night upon this subject, and move especially as what he had then said had bean misrepresented. When first appointed to the office which he now had the honour to fill, it had been clearly understood by the noble lord at the head of the Irish government, by his noble and hon. friends near him, and by the illustrious person at the head of the army, that his appointment should not preclude him from accepting any military employment in the service of his country. Under these circumstances, when the expedition to Zealand took place, he was employed in it, and also in the expedition to Portugal; and on both occasions it had been clearly understood that he had relinquished all claim to the civil office, if a successor should be appointed. He had retained the office solely at the desire of the lord lieutenant, who thought that he could assist him effectually, as he had already done, by the regulations which he had suggested. The Resolution of the hon. member went to declare, that a certain efficient government should at ail times exist in Ireland. He was not disposed to dispute the truth of the abstract proposition; but he would ask the house to pause before it voted such a proposition, and to inquire whether any inconvenience had resulted from his absence, and whether in consequence there had not been an efficient government in Ireland. He would ask the hon. gent, whether any public business had been delayed even 24 hours, or whether all the affairs of the government had not gone on without interruption? Had not the regulations which he had arranged with his grace the duke of Richmond, for the various departments of the state, been carried into effect, and the public service been thereby promoted without intermission? Under these circumstances, he would ask the house to pause before it should vote
370Sir Arthur Wellesley
366 in pursuance of notice, moved for leave to bring in a bill for amending and reduciug into one, the several Acts for raising and
366Sir A. Wellesley
shouldshouldwould377 was of opinion that Ireland should not he excluded from the effects of the bill. He called the attention of the house to the great amount of revenue which the empire would lose by not extending the measure to that country. He cautioned the Chancellor of the Exche-
shouldshouldwould377Mr. Barham
 in explanation, said, it had not been his wish to wound the feelings of the right lion. gent, by the allusions he made, and he prefaced them by an explanation of that nature; but the language the right hon. gent, thought fit to make use of in his explanation, he assured him, if he had made use of in any other place than in that house, he would return it the answer it deserved. He always considered every thing that passed in that house not cognizable cut of it; he would, therefore, take no further notice of it.Mr. Barham,
369368367 in submitting the motion of which he had given notice, should have occasion to trouble the house but shortly, in order to obtain its approbation of the proposition he had to make. During the late campaign a most extraordinary circumstance had taken place, both here and in Ireland, to which he wished to call the attention of the house. The
369368367Mr. Whitbread,
l.376 recapitulated the arguments he had used against the measure last year. Great Britain had been for a considerable time dependent upon her foreign connexions for a supply of food, and therefore when that was cut off, it was impossible but there should be a great rise in the price of provisions. The import was not
l.376Mr. Eden
 said, he never could acquiesce in or encourage the distillation from sugar, when it tended to destroy the agriculture of the country.Mr. D. Giddy
 rose to oppose it on the ground he had formerly done; viz. that it was a bill which in its principle and tendency was adverse to the agricultural interests of the country, and ought not therefore to be continued, without very sufficient reasons being given for such a measure. He was more particular in this opinion at the present moment, as he understood that by the present bill Ireland was to be exempted from its operation; a measure which he thought was by no means just or fair; for as it was intended as a matter of accommodation and benefit to the West India interests, he thought that both countries ought to bear an equal proportion of the burden on their agricultural concerns.Sir James Hall
 said, he apprehended that it appeared by the witness's own account he was sent for as the solicitor of Mrs. C, and not as the solicitor of the D. of Y., and he was therefore bound to answer the question now put to him by the house.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
398 appealed to the house and to the hon. gent. whether it was at all proper to proceed any further in a species of interrogation totally foreign from and irrelevant to the subject of enquiry, and which could throw no light whatever upon the charges of corruption preferred by the hon. gent. He would rather, indeed, put it to the good tense and discretion of the hon. gent. him-
398The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the questions, and wished the hon. gent. to shew how any conversation, which had taken place between the wilness and col. French, could be evidence against the D. of York?Sir A. Pigott
 as the question had been asked, wished it to be answered.Mr. Beresford,
 had not wished to interrupt the examination, or the course of evidence pursued by the hon. gent.; but as an objection had been taken by his learned friend, he must say, that the evidence was irrelevant.The Attorney General
402 notwithstanding the
402Lord Folkestone,
 observed, that the noble lord's argument did not apply to the case, because, putting Mrs. C. out of the question, and supposing the witness and col. French to have conversed upon what passed between the D. of Y. and col. French, his statement of such conversation would not be evidence. If they were to have what passed between col. French and the D. of Y., they must have col. French himself. He had nut objected to the course of his examination, because the hon. gent. having had notice not to proceed to the charge respecting col. French's levy without col. French, ought to have been sufficiently prepared, when he did enter on it, to go through with it. Besides, it would have been unpleasant to the house, that the hon. member should, under such circumstances, have been stopped in the course he was pursuing.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed with his right hon. friend, that the course of the examination ought not to be interrupted, because it was desirable that the matter should be sifted to the bottom. Though he did not think that infamy would rest with the hon. gent., yet he was convinced there was something foul in the transaction, and that it would be found that bribes had been given to witnesses on this subject. It was the duty of the house to inquire into the matter to the bottom.Mr. Yorke
 called the attention of gentlemen to the exhausted state of the hon. member who brought forward the motion, the state of the house, and the lateness of the hour, and proposed an adjournment—(A cry of "Go on! Go on!")Lord Folkestone
 observed, that many members appeared to be impressed with the belief that the purposes of justice required that Mrs. C. should be examined to-night, and in that sentiment he was much inclined to concur. As justice was the object of all, he hoped that Mrs. C. would be called in and examined. Without her evidence, the whole that had been said was nothing, as the D. of Y. had not been implicated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was then ordered to be called.Mrs. CLARKE
436 (the Chairman) stated that Mrs. C. was so exhausted, that, she begged to he indulged with a chair. [A chair was accordingly ordered.] He then said, that he found from the Serjeant at Arms, that he had mis-stated the message, which was a request from Mrs. C. that she might not be examined to-night.436Mr. Wharton
 told her, that the Committee, in consideration of her fatigue, had ordered a chair for her.The Chairman
 said, that unless the witness was examined that evening, she would have such opportunities to communicate with the other witnesses, that he thought, if it were in the power of the house, she ought to be committed to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms, with orders to deny her access to any person whatever. It was of the greatest consequence that either the one or the other of these plans should be adopted; and he thought the witness should be called in, and have the option given her.Mr. Yorke
 deprecated any such seventy; at the same time, he was alive to the necessity of putting certain questions to Mrs. C., relative to any communication which she might have received from any of the witnesses examined that night. He still thought that a more preferable method might be pursued, to which on any side he could see no objection. Namely, that Mr. Dowler should be called in and examined.—Accordingly,Mr. Canning
 agreed with the hon. and learned gent, as to the difficulty under which the committee laboured; but thought that one or two questions, as to the fact of her communication with other witnesses, might still be asked her tonight; and these might be made so-short as not to affect the most delicate state of health and spirits. If these questions were not put now, the committee would recollect there were other modes than personal communication, through which the witness might learn the procedings of the house.Mr. Secretary Canning
 said that there were certainly no such precedents in modern times, and the house ought to pause before they came to a decision upon a point, in which the liberty of the subject was so materially concerned.The Speaker
 doubted whether such an order as that proposed could be given till the house was resumed, and therefore till then the Chairman could not make the communication.—Mr. Rose agreed with the last gentleman; but Mr. Yorke thought there might be precedents of the Committee's making such an order.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said that the right hon. gent. need not have so strongly urged upon him a regard to justice. If the Committee thought that justice required it, he was ready to proceed.Mr. Wardle
 intimated that he was ready to proceed.Mr. Wardle
 expressed a wish that the committee should rise, and the Chairman report progress, on account of the late hour of the night. He also wished the postponement, as he was much fatigued, and it was necessary from the peculiar situation he was placed in, to attend the examination of all the witnesses. (A loud cry of "Go on! Go on!" from all parts of the House.)Mr. Wardle
 produced the note he had received from Mrs. C., before she bad entered the doors of the house that evening, which ran as follows;—"Mrs. C. very much wishes to see you, as she feels herself extremely indisposed."Mr. Wardle
 acceded to what appeared to be the wish of the committee, and consequently withdrew the question; but having one or two other questions to ask, desired that the witness should be called in again.Mr. Wardle
 said, it was because he knew it was impossible for Mrs. C. to obtain money to the extent she did without such aid, that he had said on a former night, that a professional man was introduced to the D. of Y. for that purpose by Mrs. C., and he hoped he should be allowed to prove that fact, more especially as he had been so flatly contradicted upon this point.Mr. Wardle
 thought that a communication between the witnesses might have taken place, and that it was absolutely necessary to examine Mrs. C. that evening.Mr. Croker
 said, if it did not derange the system which the hon. member intended to pursue, he wished Mrs. Clarke to be called in. Mr. Wardle not making any answer—Mr. Croker proceeded to say, it was his determination she should be examined that night, and he would insist that the committee should not rise until she was called in.—(A cry of Order! Order!)Mr. Croker
396 objected to any question being put to the witness, which might lead
396Mr. Fuller
437 thought, that if the witness were examined in an ill state of health, she might afterwards say that her answers were not such as her more fresh and vigorous mind might have suggested. He deprecated the idea of locking her up in solitude here in a strange place, and because she was excused from examination. He did not see why all the other witnesses should not be confined in the same way; and thought that to single her out might look like the effect of party. The Committee would recollect, too, that to-morrow was the Fast-day, and that it was not unlikely she might remain in confinement till next Friday. She had already, too, had ample time to have made any communication with the last witness but one;
437Mr. Sheridan
438 conceived that the house would best consult its dignity, by allowing the hon. member to pursue the course of proceeding which he had a right to act upon. But even though it was unwilling to accede to such a principle, he begged leave to ask the house whether a female, in attendance for eight hours, and of course
438Mr. Whitbread
 said, that in a cause of so great importance, and in the conduct of which the eyes of the nation were fixed on the committee, the committee ought to be guided by their soundest discretion, and that that discretion ought to take into consideration, in a proper degree, the public opinion. If the evidence of the witness in question ought not to be influenced by communications with other witnesses, so it ought not to be given under a state of mind, to the productions of which she might afterwards object. The committee were therefore in this dilemma; and as they could not accomplish their desire of preserving her from communication, the hon. and learned member thought that the committee had better postpone her examination, and allow the fact of her intercourse with other witnesses, to go to her general credit; and it would affect the whole of her testimony.Mr. Adam
 feeling the last remark of the hon. gent. applied to something which had fallen from him on a former night, begged leave now to explain what he did say, and meant to be understood, namely, that the affairs of the D. of Y. with which he was confidentially intimate, were those with which he was charged confidentially as a trustee for liquidating the debts of h. r. h. But with that part of h. r. h.'s revenue reserved for his own private expenditure, he had had no interference.Mr. Adam,
432 said, he wished that the far-
432Sir T. Turton
 moved the order of the day for the house to resolve itself into a committee for further inquiry into the Conduct of h. r. h. the Duke of York.Mr. Wardle
440 wished, previously to the house resolving into a committee, to explain the grounds of his recommendation, on a former night, that a witness should be detained in the custody of the Serjeant at Arms, to prevent communication with other witnesses already examined, or to be examined, on a subject of so much importance. The right hon. the Speaker had, on that occasion, given his opinion upon the subject, in opposition to what he felt it his own duty to propose; and he now thought the house acted wisely in following that opinion. What he himself had proposed he conceived to be founded on parliamentary usage, although he then spoke generally, without being able at the moment to refer to particular precedents. He had since, however, made more minute research; and although gentlemen seemed before to think he recommended some-
440Mr. Yorke 
 could not accede to such a doctrine, as that the communication between witnesses, either before or after examination at the bar of that house, was to invalidate their testimony. It must be quite impossible to prevent such communication from taking place between persons desirous of giving the fairest evidence. And if the right hon. gent. meant, iii the course of this inquiry, to found any proceeding upon the precedents he had quoted, he (lord F.) trusted no such proceeding would be adopted, without giving the house time to search more minutely for further precedents.Lord Folkestone
 rose, and observed, that in consequence of some interrogatories put on a former night by an hon. member to Mr. Corri, one of tile witnesses examined before the committee, in order to know whether Mr. Finnerty was one of the persons to whom he alluded as present with him at Mrs. C. 's house, an idea had gone forth that Mr. F. was the person. He had himself, however, since Tuesday night received the most positive assurances that Mr. F. was not the person, nor had he any concern whatever in these transactions. With regard to Mr. F. himself, he was at present under prosecution by the Attorney-General for a libel against the D. of Y., and he felt that such an idea going forth to the public as that he was the person alluded to by Mr. Corri in his evidence, would be extremely prejudicial to him on his trial. He was therefore extremely desirous to remove such an idea, and to prove to the house that he was not the. person. He now held in his hand a Petition from Mr. Finnerty, which he would beg leave to present to the house. The Petition was received and read as follows:Mr. Sheridan
l.l.l.447 I have been very much insulted. I knew I should be protected when I sent for the proper gentleman. I sent for the Serjeant at arms to conduct me in: it was before I got into the lobby.l.l.l.447Mrs. Clarke.
 then stated, that it was the duty of the Chairman to inform the witness, that she had a right to appeal to the Chair, if any question should he put to her which she might think improper to be answered. He therefore moved that (he Chairman he instructed to make that Communication to the witness on her being called in again.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the question had already been thrice put to the witness, and twice approved of, and the answer to it pressed by the Chair.Mr. Croker
450 notwithstanding the witness's manner of giving her evidence, and
450Mr. Whitbread,
 bad carefully confined his examination to two distinct points already before the house, and upon which the house seemed extremely anxious to obtain information; and there could be no stronger ground for pressing the question, in order to ascertain who had been at the witness's house on the occasion, than the petition that day presented from a person who was anxious to shew that he had not been there.Mr. Croker
 informed the hon. member that he had mistaken the object of the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread), if he supposed that he had any intention to justify the witness. His sole object, was to procure for her that protection, which, in any court of justice, would be afforded to a witness, and without which a witness at the bar of that house would be in a miserable situation.Sir T. Turton
 said, he would always be obliged to the committee for instructing him in his duty; but as the question when put had not been objected to, he was bound to suppose that it was a proper one to be pressed. He wished to be instructed by the committee, whether he was to tell the witness, when called in, that she might appeal to the Chair.The Chairman
 wished the hon. gent. in order to save the witness the pain that must arise from the course of examination he was pursuing, to name the person whose presence at the house of the witness he wished to ascertain from her own testimony. The hon. gent. must be aware, how easy it was to put the feelings of a witness, in such a situation, to the most painful trial.Mr. Wardle
451 declared, that he agreed most perfectly in the feelings of the hon. gent and that protection ought to be extended to the witness. It was impossible to foresee what mischief might arise from press-
451Mr. Fuller
 was of opinion, that the witness, on being brought back to the bar, should be informed, that she must give a direct answer to the questions that should he put to her, but that she might appeal to the Chair.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred in the course proposed by the right hon. gent. Undoubtedly, no man but the hon. gent. could know what purpose he had in view, but he recommended to him to consider, whether this course of examination was necessary. The committee would sec the great inconvenience that might result from it, according to the observation of the hon. gent. (Mr. Fuller), which was not heard with as much attention as the justice of it merited. This course of examination appeared to him not as questions applying to the witness, but to those who had been present at her house on the occasion. Again he would recommend to the hon. gent. to consider whether his course of examination was such as ought to be pursued.Mr. Windham
 said, he would pursue the course of examination he had begun, as he could not conceive it improper to ask the names of persons exhibited at Mrs. Clarke's before a music master and his two boys.Mr. Croker
459 then rose to state, that he had since seen Mr. Peirson, who said, that since he had given his testimony at the bar, he recollected perfectly that he had changed a large note, by the direction of the Duke of York and Mrs. Clarke. The note had been given him at night, and was not changed till the next morning. Upon his (Colonel Wardle's) asking him how it happened that he did not recollect that, when he was examined at the bar of the house, he answered, that he was subject to dreadful head-aches, and had one at the time he was examined. He did not then remember the wine-merchants in Bond-
459Mr. Wardle
 Have you any objection to deliver in the Letter you have received? I have received one before; I will perhaps in a few days, but not to-night; I have hardly read it over.—[The Chairman informed the Witness, that it was the pleasure of the Committee that she should produce the Letter she had just received.]The Chairman.
 submitted to the house the necessity of taking immediate measures for securing Mr. Williams.Mr. Brand
 was for the most prompt step possible.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
nem. con.462 moved, "That the Serjeant at Arms have orders to Make into custody ^William Williams where-
nem. con.462The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished that Mrs. Clarke might be called in to say from whose hands she received the letter.Mr. W. Smith
 and several other members addressed the house, but the prodigious tumult prevented us from collecting the tenor of their observations.Mr. Yorke
 moved, that the house should remain in its present state until the return of the Serjeant at Arms.—Ordered.Mr. Whitbread
 stated, that it would have been competent for the committee, in support of their own proceedings, to order the Serjeant at Arms to take into custody' any person without delay. The first duty of the chairman would then have been to report progress, and, when the person was actually in custody, to move that he be committed.The Speaker
 then rose in his place to make a statement of what he had heard respecting this last witness. Mr. Jones, the messenger, pointed him out in the lobby, as he was assisting in seizing him. When he was brought into the Vole Office, the account he there learned of him was this Mr. Lowten represented him as a man whom he believed to be out of his mind. He had for a long time teased Mr. Jones, the marshal, endeavouring to persuade him that he was a very near relation of his. He was convinced that this Mr. Williams labouredunder a mental derangement.Mr. Kenrick
476 said, he rose in consequence of the assertion of Mrs. C. in the beginning of the evening (that she had
476Mr. Whitbread
 said, he felt it his duty to object to the motion of his hon., friend, for two reasons, first that he did not wish it should appear that it was necessary to make any such order; secondly, that on the most accurate inquiry into the business, he understood that no insult whatever had been offered the witness in the course of the evening.Mr. Sheridan
 said, that if his right hon. friend would say that no insult had been offered the witness, he would not persist in his motion.Mr. Whitbread
 said he could not be positive, not having been present on the occasion; his knowledge was grounded on the strict inquiries which had been made.Mr. Sheridan
479 was of opinion that she ought not to be compelled to answer, as there might possibly be circumstances attending the disclosure of this question, which might prove injurious to the witness's father; nor
479Lord Folkestone
 in reply observed, that he knew nothing of the witness; but sure he was, that much of the credit of the testimony of this evidence depended upon that degree of respectability which both the witness and her connections in society held. Would the noble lord or any member in the house deny, that the evidence of a prostitute, who might be picked up in a street, was to be equally relied upon with that of a person who supported a decent and respectable character? Nor was it immaterial to the present enquiry to know?where the lather and mother of the witness resided, as it was highly probable that the knowledge of this circumstance might tend 10 extract truth from the mine of error, with which it appeared to him to be involved.The Attorney General
 said, that upon reflection, he trusted the right hon. gent. (Mr. Perceval) would not press the question, as it evidently, went to wound the feelings of the witness.Mr. Brand
 observed, that he could not help suspecting, that something would be disclosed by a direct answer to that question, that would greatly, if not wholly, discredit the testimony of the witness. It must appear a very extraordinary case, that neither of the sisters knew, or rather, would not tell, where the father was; and, therefore, he still adhered to his former opinion, that the question ought to be answered in a direct manner.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 saw no good that could result from compelling the witness to answer the question in a direct form, as it was probable the fact could be ascertained by putting the question in another shape.Mr. Wilberforce
480 thought it utterly impossible to carry on the inquiry, unless such questions were pointedly answered; the truth could never be found out, and the obloquy under-which the Duke of York had
480Mr. Yorke
 did not see any reasonable objection to the answering of the question, and therefore trusted the Committee would not relax.Mr. Simeon
 observed, that it was impossible to conceive that any thing more important could come before the house than the present investigation. He was of opinion, therefore, that the Committee ought to sit. again that day. He hoped, therefore, that gentlemen who had given notices of motions would agree to postpone them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved, that the Mr. Tahourdin, mentioned by the last witness, should be summoned to give evidence at the Bar.Mr. Smith
 observed, that as the Sale of the Writership was not connected with the Charges against the D. of Y., it would not be proper to call Mr. Tahourdin. It might perhaps be done on the ground of discrediting the evidence of the last witness; but as the affair was totally distinct from the investigation at present before the house, the farther introduction of it might produce much inconvenience: he would recommend it to the hon. member rather to move for a Committee up stairs, for the purpose of investigating the appointment in question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 also recommended the appointment of a Committee.Mr. R. Dundas
 observed, that the house must be convinced, from what had passed, of the necessity of some legislative proceeding, to prevent the scandalous practice carried on in the sale of Commissions, and Places under government. He had refrained from introducing any measure while the present investigation was in progress, but some step, it was evident, ought to be speedily taken to stop the evil. It was his opinion, that the advertising of such places ought to be made a crime; that the money advanced, or agreed to be given, should be forfeited; that heavy penalties should be imposed, and that all persons concerned in such traffic should be rendered guilty of a misdemeanor.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in consequence of the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, withdrew his motion, and gave notice that he would, on the next meeting of the house, move the appointment of a Select Committee.Mr. Smith,
 was called to the Bar, to state what he knew of William Williams. He said that he had known him several years ago; that he was sometimes very troublesome, and that he considered him not a fit person to be allowed to go at large, he was deranged in his intellects.Mr. Lowten
507506 thought it necessary, before the Committee proceeded to examine evidence, to offer a few observations, in consequence of something in the evidence of Mr. Donovan last night, stating that a Letter written by Mrs. Clarke to him about a capt. Tucker was framed by Mr. Finnerty. Upon a former day he had stated every thing he knew about Mr. Finner-
507506Mr. Wardle
 coincided with his hon. friend, in the wish that Mr. Finnerty might be examined, and said, that so far from having intended to make any attack upon his hon. friend, as he was pleased to term it, on a former night, he merely cautioned him as to the sources of his information, and had sent to hint a message upon the subject by a mutual friend.Mr. Sheridan
 said, he never had received that message, and observed that his right hon. friend, on the former night, had pretty strongly insinuated that his information was derived from persons of the description of conspirators, with whom it was disgraceful to hold any communication, but without naming the persons to whom he alluded.Mr. Wardle
 said, he had used no such phrase as conspirators or conspiracy; and it was hardly to be expected he should be so indiscreet as to name persons who were yet to give their testimony before the house, and thus to excite prejudice against them. He had no objection, however, to allude now to one of those persons named Donovan, who had yesterday given his evidence at the bar, and whose gross prevarication evinced the kind of reliance that could be placed on any information derived from him. There were also, two others whom he had no objection now to name; for instance, M'Callum and Cockayne, who, he did not scruple to say, were persons to whose information no credit was to be attached; and he had cautioned his hon. friend against placing much reliance upon such men: but he called the house to witness, whether, instead of making any attack upon his hon. friend, he did not vindicate his conduct and intentions, and deprecate the attempt of any set of men disposed to make a run against an individual member, who had the firmness and independence to rise in his place, and do that which he conceived to be his public duty. For his own part, he was determined his conduct should be guided by neither favour nor affection, nor any regard to rank or station.Mr. Sheridan
508 bore high testimony to the military conduct of col. Tucker. He had served under both sir David Baird and sir Samuel Auchmuty in South America, with the highest recommendation from both, as an officer highly deserving his majesty's favour and he felt it his duty
508Sir A. Wellesley
 declared he never meant the most distant imputation upon the conduct of that gallant officer, nor had he any personal knowledge of him whatever; he had only mentioned his name as connected with one of the transactions which were the subject of inquiry. Mr. Wardle next adverted to some letters in his possession which were alluded to on the evidence of Mr. Donovan last night, to the reading of which he had no objection, and which he was ready to produce if the committee desired it.Mr. Wardle
 observed, that if his recollection did not completely fail him, Mr. Donovan had been guilty of the most gross prevarication. It was not his intention to offer a single observation, directly or indirectly, until the close of the examination. But if it should prove as he strongly suspected, he should unquestionably move for the committal of Mr. Donovan.—He was proceeding to comment on the doctrine laid down by an hon. gent, under the gallery, when he was called to order by Mr. Croker.Mr. C. Bradshaw
 stated, that he bad just received a letter from general Clavering, which he read to the house, and which stated, That having understood that Mrs. Clarke had introduced his name in her last examination, he was desirous of being examined at the bar of the house that night, and more especially touching his having called at Mrs. C.'s house, as his replies would go directly to impeach that lady's veracity.The Attorney General
 observed, that if it were intended to commit Mr. Donovan, for hiving uttered gross falsehoods, the same proceeding must certainly take place with any other witnesses, who, by their conduct, placed themselves in the same predicament. If it could be proved, that Mrs. C. had been guilty of such gross breaches of veracity, as Mr. Donovan seemed to have been, he was at a loss to know where any person could be found who would oppose her commitment. If the assertion of general Clavering were to be weighed against the assertion of Mrs. C. no one could doubt which must kick the beam in the estimation of the committee; but still the committee would perceive, that there was a difference between convicting a person of probable falsehood by producing the testimony of another, and convicting a person of absolute falsehood by the production of his own testimony.Mr. W. Smith
 stated the inconvenience which must result from the indulgence of hon. gentlemen in general observation. The remarks of the hon. gent. were by no means called for by what had been stated by his learned friend.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
512 recommended a dispassionate conduct on the part of the committee. It was natural, that in a popular assembly a great diversity of opinions should exist, and that those opinions should be maintained with a heat not always decorous or dignified. It was most desirable that this
512Mr. Adam
 rose and observed, that the story some nights since mentioned to the house, respecting an Office in the City, in which the name or a noble relation of his (the duke of Portland) was implicated, appeared to him, as it must to the house and the public, so completely ridiculous, that he thought it unworthy of any attention on his part; but he now understood that there was a letter on the table, referring to a particular transaction, with regard to which he wished to submit some explanations to the house. The Mr. Beazley, mentioned in the letter alluded to, called at his noble relation's house—The Marquis of Titchfield
 wished to know whether the noble marquis was offering his statement as evidence? It appeared to him that it ought to be entered in the minutes. In consequence of a circumstance, which incidentally came out last night in evidence, a Committee had this day been appointed to investigate some concerns connected with the East. India Company, and possibly a Committee might become necessary, with regard to the affairs of the Treasury also.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the only difference was as to the expediency of entering the noble lord's statement in the Minutes. In his judgment, that did not appear necessary, particularly as it referred to a point not properly relevant to the professed object of the inquiry.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 suggested, whether, as the point deemed irrelevant by the right hon. gent, was already in the Minutes, it would not be better, that the noble lord's explanation of it should be inserted there also.Mr. Whitbread
 thought it not material to press the question, whether the noble lord's explanation should be inserted in the Minutes or not, although certainly wide of the original object for which the Committee was appointed; but this was but one of many instances, in which the Committee had gone astray.Mr. Rose
 wished the noble lord's statement to be inserted in the Minutes.Mr. Wilberforce
522 thought the proposed statement should be inserted among the evidence, to enable the house to judge of the ease. If it appeared, that Mrs. C. had
522Mr. Sheridan
 wished the witness to be told, that with whatever forbearance the committee had hitherto treated the witness, it could not long endure this trifling on her part with the questions which the committee chose to ask; but that she must, if she did not alter her behaviour, suffer the punishment with which the committee of the house of commons, out of a regard to its own dignity, must visit an obstinate perseverance in a want of proper respect.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
543 said, that there seemed to be a mistake on this point. The witness, he understood, had not positively refused to answer, nor done any thing with respect to this question which necessarily implied a disrespect to the house. She had, before answering directly, stated an additional reason why she should not answer, for the
543Mr. Windham
 would be sorry if an impression prevailed any where that he had interfered too soon; and if there were any gentlemen, who did not perceive, in the last half hour, in the witness's conduct, an attempt to evade, to trifle and shuffle, (a loud cry of No, No, No! from several members) He meant to state that no other witness in any other cause than this could, upon displaying such improper behaviour as this witness had done within the last half hour, escape being committed. (No, No, No!) The hon. gentlemen did not agree with him in that; but it was certainly his opinion. He did not, however, impute blame in any quarter for suffering the witness to proceed in this sort of behaviour thus long; but at the same time, in support of the dignity of the committee, it was necessary to assert the respect due to it, after long and manifest abuse of indulgence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was wrong in talking of inflicting punishment on the witness. This mode of treating evidence, was a violation of the liberty of the subject. This was a point, which ought to be always kept in view, and he would pay no attention to what was said from the government side of the house.General Matthew
 insisted upon the importance of having an answer to the question. She had stated that the party would suffer the loss of the money that was pledged—it was for the reason which she urged as an objection, that he wished the question to be answered, because it afforded a hope of getting to the bottom of the transaction.Mr. Croker
 seconded the motion, and expressed his regret, that he was not present last night, when something was stated upon the subject, by one of the witnesses before the Committee. He assured the house, that nothing could be more satisfactory to the Court of Directors than the institution of the inquiry proposed; for, as public men, they felt it a painful duty to meet imputations, the sources of which they found it impossible to discover notwithstanding their most vigilant exertions. About eight or nine years since, the directors, upon a report of this kind having reached them, instituted an immediate and minute inquiry, to ascertain whether such abuses did exist, as the advertisements every day inserted in the public papers for the purchase of such appointments seemed to imply; as the directors, if they found that any such transaction had the aid or countenance of any of their own body, were determined to make that person a public example; and it was in consequence reported to the Court that the patronage of a member of that body had been bestowed in favour of a clerk in the India house, who had received a cadetship, which appointment the party had sold; but as soon as the fact was discovered, he was dismissed from his employment.Mr. Charles Grant
505 rose to move for a Select Committee, to inquire whether any and what Corrupt Practices had obtained in the Sale or Disposal of Cadetships, Writerships, or other Appointments, under the East India Company, or any negotiations respecting the same. He had the satisfaction to state to the house, that he brought forward this motion with the special approbation of the Court of Directors, with whom such a measure had been for some time in contemplation, in consequence of the rumours prevalent that such a traffic for the disposal of such places had been carried on, and which, by no possibility, could have their sanction. What had passed in evidence before a Committee of the house last night, rendered it necessary no longer to defer this motion, in order as well to vindicate the Court of Directors from every idea of countenancing such transactions, as to trace them, if possible, to detection. He concluded by moving: "That a Select Committee be appointed, to enquire into the existence of any corrupt practices in regard to the Appointment and Nomination of Writers or Cadets, in the service of the East India Company, or any agreement, negotiation, or bargain, direct or indirect, for the sale thereof; and to report the same, as it shall appear to them,
505Mr. George Smith
 objected to the question, as contrary to every principle of evidence he had ever heard recognized by any tribunal.The Attorney General
 admitted the latitude of the House of Commons in its inquisitorial character, to a certain extent, but at the same time considered the question proposed by the hon. gent, as repugnant to all laws of evidence.Mr. Leicester
 thought if such a question were put, without accompanying it with explanatory inquiries as to the nature of the facts from which the opinion proceeded, or of the opportunity the witness had of judging of the conduct or character of the person referred to, justice was not done; and witnesses coming to be examined before the house must be placed in a very unpleasant situation.Sir S. Romilly
 suggested, that the question might be so framed, as to bring out the fact without disclosing the names of the persons. It was possible the witness might have been applied to as a broker, without reference to either Mrs. C. or the D. of York.Mr. Secretary Canning
 agreed, that if it could be proved the names had been submitted to the D. of Y. it would be proper to inquire into the circumstance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the question. It must necessarily implicate so many persons, that the committee would not be able to finish the inquiry in the course of the sessionMr. S. Stanhope
 was never more surprised than at this interruption. It ought to be recollected that the whole of these charges, as they affected the Duke of York, principally depended on the credit of this witness, and in some measure upon that of Dowler. This Dowler had represented that he had only paid her one visit, in the morning, since his arrival, and that for the purpose of persuading her not to bring him forward. He had endeavoured to hold himself out as an unwilling witness. If then, after what both of these witnesses had said, it could be proved that she had seen him at his own hotel, and actually passed the night with him, it would be a very material consideration, and would go strongly to impeach the credit of both.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was surprised at the rebuke which the right lion. gent, had given to the hon. gent, who, from the most conscientious motives, had objected to this line of examination, which had no other effect than to exhibit the character of the witness, in a sort of light, with which the house was already acquainted. Mr. F. defended the propriety of this objection, and thought that this line of examination served no other purpose than that of bringing forward unnecessary scandal.Mr. Fitzgerald
 declared, that if this line of examination was not tolerated, he did not see how the committee could at all arrive at the truth. If the evidence of only one person was brought to substantiate a fact, it was surely of no small importance to know whether the testimony of this person ought or ought not to be believed.Mr. B. Bathurst
585 As the Attorney General has thought proper, after the line and course of examination which he has fol-
585Mr. Wardle.
 declared his opinion, that the Committee had nothing to do with the letters of col. M'Mahon. There was nothing before them to shew that such documents referred to the immediate object of the investigation, and therefore he considered it as an intrusion upon the very serious concerns of the country, to have the time of a Committee of the House of Commons taken up upon irrelevant subjects.Mr. Croker
602 expressed his surprize that the right hon. gent. (Mr. Fitzgerald) should have volunteered in defending his lion, friend (Mr. Wilberforce), upon whom he (Mr. Croker) had certainly made no attack. Mr. Dowler had given in evidence, that he had seen Mrs. Clarke only twice since his return from Portugal, whereas it now appeared from Mrs. Clarke's own evidence, that they had met much oftener, and he put it to the committee, whether it could be considered as idle in him to question the witness upon a point which went not only to undermine the credibility of one, but of both. Besides, if instead only of two interviews, there had not been an hour from his arrival in this country to the time at which he appeared at the bar of the house, in which he might not have
602Mr. Croker
601600 If the committee thinks that a sufficient answer, I am satisfied.601600Mr. Croker.
 believed that nothing' but party principle, prejudice and misconception, could induce men to deviate from the usages of those tribunals where justice was best administered.Mr. Fuller
 proposed to ask the witness, if she had a female child would sire place her under Miss Taylor's care? This was objected to.Mr. Fuller
 When the witness on the last night was at the bar, she promised to produce letters of mine, which she said would exhibit me in my proper colours. At that time, as at present, the bearings of my own mind were, that to whatever topic these letters referred, however unconnected with the object which the Committee were investigating, or however unexplained the circumstances under which they were written, still it was my decided wish that they should be produced. That opinion I now maintain, and therefore, with every deference for the sentiments of the hon. gent, must express my anxiety that the Committee should receive them; although unable to recollect at this moment their particular import, I am still satisfied that they cannot, in any sense, appertain to the object of the present inquiry.Col. M'Mahon.
 observed, that there was hardly an officer in the army, previous to 1805, who had not been guilty of this practice.General Mathew
 declared he would take the sense of the committee on the question, if persevered in.General Mathew
 confirmed this statement, and said, a clause was introduced in the Mutiny Bill, for the special purpose of putting an end to such practices. General Stewart said, it would be very unfair to the army, to have the names of officers mentioned, by persons without character, and particularly as they would have no opportunity of contradicting them.General Fitzpatrick
 from what he had seen of the two ladies, would be more inclined to ask Miss Taylor her opinion of Mrs. Hovenden.Mr. Whitbread,
 contended, that the Committee were not fettered by settled forms or principles of evidence, as was the case in the courts below. If once such a limit was imposed upon the investigations of the House of Commons, there was an end to the inquisitorial power of parliament.Mr. Whitbread
 and the Attorney General thought the question perfectly fair.Mr. Perceval
 contended, that the examination instituted by the hon. gent, affected the credibility of Dowler as well as of Mrs. Clarke, and that on that account it was of no small importance. Dowler had given in evidence, that he had obtained his appointment through the influence of Mrs. Clarke; he had also declared, that he had only seen her twice since his return from Portugal. Now, if he was convicted of saying what was not true in the one case; it was by no means improbable that he might have spoken falsehood in both.Mr. Adam
 observed, that previous to the D. of Y.'s letter, nothing was more common than for officers to purchase and exchange commissions through the medium of brokers.Mr. Huskisson
 proposed asking the witness, would she, of her own knowledge, believe Miss Taylor's evidence?General Loftus
 objected to these questions, as tending to no useful purpose. The house was already perfectly aware of the character of the witness, and there was no occasion for this method of elucidating it farther.Mr. Wilberforce
 admitted that the questions put by the hon. gent, bore upon the credibility of the witness; at the same time he was not of opinion, that in whatever manner they might be answered, they would imply that sort of contradiction which was calculated to remove the impression of the evidence from the mind of the public. It had been said by a right hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Long), that there were no minutes of the recommendation which led to Mr. Dowler's appointment at the Treasury. Now, if it should be found that such a minute did exist—Sir G. Warrender
 said, that his object was to shew that the examination of the hon. gent. (Mr. Croker), could not lead to any result at all satisfactory to the country; and, in his opinion, it would be much better to make the questions to bear upon facts, than upon any flaw which might afterwards be detected in the consistency of the evidence.Sir G. Warrender
 said, it appeared, that the witness was one of Donovan's agents; and the committee would recollect, that it was stated, by a former evidence, that he had given in a long list of persons who were candidates for promotion to Mrs. C.Sir G. Warrender
 conceived, that as Birkett was dead, the present witness was the best possible testimony that could be produced to that particular fact.Lord Temple
 observed, that the inquiry concerning Samuel Carter had been stopped, in order to proceed with the case of col. Shaw, but, if it was contended that the regulations of the army had been broken in upon, he was of opinion that the question should be put.Mr. Yorke
 observed, that the lion, member opposite (Mr. Wardle,) had been stopped from going into other matter, in order that some questions might be put to the witness relative to col. Meyrick Shaw. He put it then to the hon. member, whether he would travel into other cases, until that immediately under consideration had been disposed of.Mr. S. Bourne
625 stated the object of his question to be to impeach the evidence of the witness at the bar, for whom, however, he felt a high respect. That witness had stated that the settled regulations of the army had never been broken into. He was not afraid to state that the contrary was the case; and it was to shew
625Mr. J. Smith
 should not object to the question, if it were put with any view of impeaching any testimony given at the bar.Mr. S. Bourne
641 said, that it was incumbent on the house to take care that these letters were returned to the witness, in case it should appear that lie had any lien upon them. He might retain them as security for rent, and it would not be right to deprive him of that security, particularly as it was not in evidence before the committee that these letters had any relation whatever to the subject of
641The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the reading of such a mass of papers, which were not known to pertain to the business before the Committee, and might perhaps be improper, as well as unnecessary. He proposed that a small Committee might be appointed to select what were proper, and lay them before the Committee.Mr. Yorke
 stated that, in consequence of the probable engagement of his lion, friend upon the business of the committee to be appointed, inquiring about the letters disclosed by Mr. Nicholls, he had undertaken to investigate the case he had alluded to, and he should apply himself to the investigation in the morning.Lord Folkestone
 could not conceive how there could be any difficulty in stating the nature of the charge: surely; after so much inquiry, it was rather hard to keep the public or the accused any longer in suspence; it was obviously desirable, that some information should be communicated as to this new charge, in order that evidence respecting it, if any, should be in readiness, and the case should close on both sides to-morrow night. He wished much, therefore, to know the description of the intended charge, with a view to have it forwarded to the D. of Y. without delay; otherwise, there might be a difficulty, or at least, a delay in meeting it, against which delay it must be desirable by all parties to guard, after an inquiry so long protracted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that in its present state it could not be mentioned.Lord Folkestone
 was really surprised at the nature of the replies given to his right hon. friend. It was quite extraordinary, that a charge should be threatened, the object of which the accuser refused to explain, adding to that refusal a confession that he has still to look out for evidence to substantiate it. Neither in parliamentary proceedings nor legal record had he over heard of any charge so vague and indefinite.Mr. Secretary Cunning
650 denied that the charge was either vague or indefinite, for this simple reason, that no charge whatever was made. It was because some doubt hung over this charge that it was not mentioned. If, while such doubt existed; if before the investigation of the evidence appearing to support it, any charge were stated, then his hon. friend or he might be exposed to the imputation of preferring an unfounded charge Which he could not
650Lord Folkestone
 disclaimed the idea of throwing out any imputation against the noble lord.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed that he did not mean the right hon. gent.Lord Folkestone
 resumed. He regretted that the charge was not explained, or some of the parties involved in it mentioned, in order that means might he afforded to the accused in due time to meet it, and to prove, if in his power, that it was groundless.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
643 thought there was no apprehension as to the letters being destroyed, after being brought voluntarily to the bar. This was a difficult point to decide. He could not think of receiving letters in evidence which could not be proved as written by any one; which might be anonymous, and full of lies. He also disapproved of Mr. Whitbread's suggestion, and without meaning any disrespect to Mr. Wardle, was sure that hon. gent, would agree with him, that to be placed in the situation of selector would not be conducive to the ends of general justice.643The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 after stating that it would be necessary to summons one of these witnesses for to-morrow, in order to identify Mrs. C. asked Mr. Wardle, whether he had any further charges to prefer?The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
649 expressed a wish, that the hon. member would have
649The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not mean to throw out any imputation, but he must say, that he retained his opinion, that the proceeding which formed the subject of the conversation was most unusual and unprecedented.Mr. Canning
651 thought it too hard thus to press the hon. mover. He had already brought forward charges against the D. of Y. in which he had confessedly failed,
651Mr. Beresford
 moved that this bill be read a third time, to which he had produced two new clauses; the one extending the provisions of the bill to the fencible regiments of Royal Miners belonging to the counties of Cornwall and Devonshire; and the other restraining the operation of the bill, whenever the militia establishment fell as low as two-fifths of the quota provided by the act of 1807. The noble lord said, that the principle upon which his Bill went, was, that the Militia regiments should not be weakened to less than two-fifths of their numbers, following the regulation laid down in 1807, nor exceed three-fifths of that number.Lord Castlereagh
 said, this clause did no more than carry into effect the principle of the former Militia Enlistment bill, which allowed the privates in each regiment, to the number of three-fifths, to enlist into the line. With regard to any partial oppression upon counties which had completed their ballots, and the operation as a premium to others which had not completed their levies, apprehended by the hon. gent, his fears were groundless; for by the last returns of the different counties, it appeared that of the 36,000 men to be raised, the deficiency was not more than 2000 and a fraction, so that the operation of the bill must be general. Besides, in the other bill which he meant to bring forward on the subject, a very considerable relief would be afforded to the ballotted men, towards the means of providing substitutes.Lord Castlereagh
 had no objection to withdraw the amendment, not wishing to press it without allowing time for further consideration.Lord Castlereagh
 answered that it would be in the course of a week.Lord Castlereagh
 observed the clause had now passed the first and second readings, and was agreed to by the house, and therefore could not be withdrawn consisently with the forms of proceeding. The Clause was read a third lime and agreed to. Several other amendments were then moved by lord Castlereagh, and agreed to.—Upon the question being put that the bill do pass,The Speaker
 suggested the form of a motion in the Committee, which was a necessary preliminary to the appointment of the Committee for examining the Letters given in by Nicholls.The Speaker
 was also averse to this measure, and testified to the severity with which the militia ballots operated. He regretted that the noble lord should bring forward the present bill, and urge it through the house, before he introduced the other bill, of which he had given notice. On the former occasion, both bills were brought forward together, and the house had an opportunity of discussing them in their progress. He wished the noble lord to slate when he meant to introduce his other bill.Mr. Shaw Lefevre
 joined in the objections of col. Frankland.Col. Loveden
 said, it was impossible for him to state the charge at that moment, but he would be decided respecting it in the morning, and should take the earliest opportunity of informing the right hon. gent, of it.Mr. Wardle
 replied, that he was not yet prepared to state the nature of a Charge which he meant to adduce, if he found the evidence satisfactory. If he should find it so, he should bring it forward to-morrow night.Mr. Wardle
 proposed to call in Mrs. Favery for examination, but the serjeant at arms appeared at the bar, and stated that she was not in attendance.Mr. Wardle
 with permission of the committee, begged leave to state all that he knew respecting these letters. He was informed by Mrs. Clarke that she had burned a great number of letters relating to transactions which were the subject or the inquiry before the house, and that she had given some of them to the witness to have them destroyed. A few days ago she learned that he had not destroyed them. He (col. W.) went yesterday to Hampstead, and demanded the letters of the witness, He said he had no objection to give them up to Mrs. C, on her sending a receipt for them. It afterwards appeared from a letter he had written her that be had changed his mind.Mr. Wardle,
 said that the witness had probably read them then, and therefore would be able to state whether they related to sales of commissions.Mr. Wardle
 who had loudly opposed the withdrawing of the witness with the papers, said, that if the right hon. gent. had consulted the interests of the country, or of the Duke of York, he would not thus have interposed. He contended, that if any papers were referred to a Select Committee, the country would imagine they contained things which the house wished to be concealed. It would not do, after all the irrelevant mailer that had been admitted in their proceedings, to shut their eyes now. They must go on, since they had once begun.Mr. Barham,
 proposed that the letters I should be delivered to Mr. Wardle, who might make the selection of such as were necessary to elucidate the matter he had brought before the house. His fair and manly course would justify this confidence.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the property of the witness in these letters would not be destroyed by their being laid on the table of the house of commons. The house had an undoubted right to retain and examine them. It would be proper to ask the witness how he came by them.Mr. Whitbread
 thought the observations of the right hon. gentlemen on the Treasury Bench of rather an extraordinary character. An imputation seemed to be thrown out, that it was intended to bring forward a charge in a manner calculated to take the accused by surprise. If any such imputation (and he was sure it could not) were meant to attach to his hon. friend, or the noble lord, he was confident it was groundless. But if it were possible for any man to entertain the intention which seemed to have been imputed, that house would defeat it. That house was not so circumscribed in its limits as to precipitate a termination of the inquiry, and refuse the accused a full opportunity of defending himself against any charge that might be brought forward. Athough it was understood that this charge was to close to-morrow night, it did not follow that it should, if it appeared necessary to extend it farther. He had no doubt that the noble lord would do his duty in examining the case referred to; but whatever the event, he trusted that house would do its duty, and that if an attempt were made from any quarter to withhold justice, such attempt would be baffled. On these grounds, he saw no reason for pressing so much for the statement which the right hon. gent, desired.Mr. Whitbread
652 complained, that the noble lord had introduced this clause by surprize upon the house in the last stage of the bill, without having allowed any opportunity for considering it in its various bearings. It was a clause which would go totally to change the established order of the Militia, and went in a particular degree to affect the regiment with which he happened to be best connected. It would operate as a premium to those counties which had been negligent in carrying into effect the Militia act, and tend to encourage such negligence for the future, while it would operate as a heavy and oppressive penalty on those counties which have done their duty by completing their ballots, as it was upon such counties only this bill would have operation, by creating the necessity for a new ballot
652Colonel Frankland
 objected to the letters being read.General Loftus
 recollected the evidence which had been given by the witness on a former night, and he was convinced it could not be impeached. He had not said that the rules of the army were never departed from, but not generally, and except in special instances.Gen. Loftus
655rose, and said, that if he forbore troubling the house at present at any length, it was not from want of a due sense of the many and radical objections to which the present measure was liable; but as another Bill was shortly to be introduced, when there would be full opportunity of discussion, he should reserve himself for that occasion; though it was rather unfortunate that his observations would come after half of a measure had been already adopted. But, while the present Inquiry into the Conduct of the Commander in Chief which so occupied their attention, to the exclusion of the weightiest considerations, considerations affecting the very existence of the empire, lasted, it was difficult, if not impossible to find opportunity for any other discussion. By the mode they had thought proper to adopt in conducting that inquiry, which, however, he thought could have been attained by a different course, as effectual, and certainly more speedy, it was now found they could not calculate upon its probable conclusion; on the contrary, they had no controul whatever over their own proceedings, for a single woman (Mrs. Clarke) had shewn that she could rout them horse and foot; it was, therefore, he thought the noble lord should not have brought the business on in such a situation. However detrimental the course they had adopted of prosecuting the Inquiry was, both to the service of the country and to the character of the house, they were thereby reduced to the necessity of submitting to see a measure which was only temporary, become permanent, without either the attention or attendance of the house. He should, therefore, reserve himself till the opportunity arrived of discussing it attentively, only contenting himself with saying, that however politically hostile he might be to the present administration, there was no measure, their conduct respecting Spain not excepted; he
655Mr. Windham 
 informed the committee, that the object of his questions was to put the committee in possession of a fact of which it seemed not to have been aware, that col. Shaw had been a lieut. col. some years before major Covel was a major.Mr. W. pole
 objected strongly to the production of these letters, and blamed the committee for the course they were pursuing. They might contain Mrs. C.'s private amours for what they knew, and ought not to be heard, unless the lion, gent, would state that he had good grounds for believing they would throw light on his charges.Sir G. Hill
 though he did not approve of the course of examination which had been pursued, yet considered this question as proper as those which had immediately before been put, relative to col. Shaw.Sir G. Warrender,
 though wishing to increase the disposable force of the country, thought the means proposed by this bill circuitous, inefficacious, and hostile to their own operation. He should rather at once vote for a bill to enable the whole of the militia to volunteer into the line, than take away one half of the militia, and leave the other to be filled up by recruits. It would be infinitely less oppressive to ballot men at once for the line.Sir George Warrender,
 objected to the question, as coming within that line of examination which the committee had already decided against. He understood the opinion to be, that no case should be gone into except where the rules and regulations of the army had been broken in upon. If questions such as these were to be admitted, they would not know where to stop. To enquire into cases of promotion, where the rules of the army had not been broken in upon, would be to trench upon the prerogative of the crown, in which was exclusively vested the power of granting commissions in the army.Colonel Wood
653 rose to object to it altogether, as being a measure introduced in direct violation of what he always understood to be the positive pledge of the noble lord upon the introduction of his former bill; namely, that it was not to be adopted as a regular and permanent system, but only to be resorted to on great and urgent occasions. It was upon the strength of this promise that many gentlemen were induced to agree to the principle, who never expected that the noble lord would convert a measure, avowedly of temporary pressure, into a regular and permanent system. But now, without stating any such emergency, the noble lord revived the measure, and seemed to rest upon it as a regular expedient for recruiting the troops of the line. But the measure itself could not fail to produce the most mischievous effects upon the discipline
653Lord Milton
656 rose to call the attention of the house to the subject of a motion made by an hon. gent. yesterday, for a writ to issue for the election of a member for Stamford, in the room of gen. Bertie, now a peer of the united kingdom. But first, he moved that the act be read which explained the cases wherein members should be deemed to have vacated their seats.—[It was read accordingly.]—The noble lord then observed, that although he was sure the motion of the hon. gent. last night for the writ in question to issue, was made with the worthiest motives, yet it appeared to him that his zeal was rather premature, as such a motion could only be warranted by a thorough conviction of the fact that the hon. general had really vacated his seat; by a letter in his hand from gen. Bertie, it appeared that that hon. member was not himself conscious of having vacated his seat; neither did he appear, under the meaning of the act now read, to have done so, by any thing stated in the motive assigned for the hon. gent's motion. It was true, indeed, that gen. Bertie had ground to consider himself as next heir to the noble title of Lindsey, and consequently a peer of the united kingdom, and might have received his summons under the great seal to assume that title; but, then he was not summoned to take his seat as a peer of parliament, which was necessary, in order to vacate his seat in that house,
656Lord Henniker
661660 now rose to move the order of the day for the house to resolve into a Committee upon the Inquiry respecting the Conduct of h. v. h. the Commander in Chief. But first he hoped to be indulged with the liberty of a few observations, in consequence of what had passed last night. He felt it unnecessary to say any thing with respect to himself, or the part he had taken in this proceeding; but he hoped the house would do justice to the motives and conduct of the hon. gent., whom he was happy to call his lion, friend, but who had been more than once stigmatized, in the course of this enquiry, by the appellation of the accuser. His hon. friend, he would say, had not been fairly dealt by: for in the arduous and important task he had undertaken from an imperious sense of public duty, he had not been allowed to proceed in the mode he himself would have chosen, but was forced to adopt the line suggested by a learned gentleman in that house, who was the avowed friend and adviser of the party accused. He believed this was the first time when, on any similar proceeding, the person bringing forward a charge for the sake of public justice was refused the liberty of choosing his own mode of conducting his proceeding, and forced to adopt the line pointed out by the friend and adviser of the accused. His hon. friend had been obliged to go on day after day, without interval or respite, tinder the fatiguing exertions inseparable from the duty he had undertaken, up to the very moment when he (the noble lord) seeing him oppressed, and sinking under the task by mere fatigue of mind and body, had come forward to his assistance. His hon. friend, in the side he had taken, was allowed no such assistants as a Low-ten, or a Wilkinson. He was obliged to do the whole duty, and seek evidence where he could find it. The noble lord trusted it would never be forgotten in that house, that it would be held in everlasting remembrance by the country at large, that his honourable friend had been obliged to follow up his duty, under
661660Lord Folkestone
665664663 said, that the noble lord had been particularly strenuous in calling on the house, and on the country, to hold the way in which the hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle) had been treated in opening this business, and the way in which the noble lord himself had been treated, yesterday, in everlasting remembrance. If so, he (Mr. Perceval) hoped it would also be held in correct remembrance. The noble lord was correct in saying, that it was the anxious wish of gentlemen on that side of the house, out of regard, not to their own feelings only, but to those of the royal Duke, that every thing should be as fair, open, and public as possible. But did it from thence follow, that the mode of proceeding, which had been followed, had been forced on the hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle)? Except the noble lord himself there was not a dissentient voice in that house against the mode of proceeding which had been followed. The plan adopted, therefore, was not one pressed on the hon. mover (Mr. Wardle), or on the house, by his hon. friend (Mr. Adam), or himself, but was one on which there was not a contrary opinion, but in one or two instances, in the house. A gentleman behind him had opposed the mode adopted for the very reason, if he at all understood the opinions of the noble lord and the hon. mover of the Inquiry, that they would have supported it, namely, that it was too public a mode of investigation, not, as it was now insinuated, that it was calculated to obstruct public justice. If his memory, however, did not fail him, the hon. gent. himself had not stated, that he wished for a select committee, but only for a committee. The noble lord had indeed proposed a select committee; but no reluctance had been shewn by the hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle) to the mode of proceeding since adopted. It had not been pressed on him reluctantly, but had been acquiesced in by the unanimous and consentient voice of the house. Was it then fair conduct to be observed towards any member of that house? Was it fair towards the house of commons itself—that they should be represented as guilty of harsh, improper, and unparalleled conduct towards the mover of the accusation—or should be held up to the public as impeding, what every one was more anxious than another, to investigate and bring to light? If they were to be tried for such an offence, it was only necessary for their acquittal, that their conduct should be fully
665664663The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, stated, that with respect to the new cases, he did not say that they were numerous, but that this was not the only one which could not he proceeded in from want of evidence, arising from the cause he had assigned. As to the charge of infamy, he repeated, that it had been asserted that infamy must fall somewhere—on the accused, if guilty; on the accuser, if he could not substantiate his charges. [Hear! hear!]Lord Folkestone,
 said, that if the application from the baroness Nolleken related to a civil appointment, it could not possibly be admitted as evidence on an inquiry which was purely of a military nature.Mr. Buthurst
 was forcibly struck with the objection started by the learned gent., and therefore thought, that with a view to discharge the duty they owed the public, the Chairman should be instructed, on the breaking up of the Committee, to move for an enlargement of its powers.Lord Folkestone
 referring to the Report of the Committee, staled, that the Committee, had not given any opinion, whether the letters are now, or were hereafter, to be considered admissible evidence.The Chairman,
 declared, that he certainly had applied the epithet of "learned" to the learned gentleman; but at all events he was sure that when he called him the "adviser of the Duke of York," he did not mean to cast any imputation on his integrity.Lord Folkestone
 said, he had not meant to pass a panegyric on himself: he had been misrepresented. All he alluded to was the assistance that he might have rendered his hon. friend out of that house.Lord Folkestone
 said, he did not believe the writing had been denied in that house, and that when any hon. member brought forward a letter in the house, he generally substantiated it by as good evidence as he could produce.The Attorney General
 called the attention of the Committee to the circumstance that the letter which had been just read, purporting to be from Mr. Elderton to the D. of Y., was without a seal. It had probably been enclosed in a cover to Mrs. C. to be sent to his royal highness or not, as that lady pleased, but it was found in the custody of Mrs. C. herself.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 admitted that it must have been obvious to every gentleman, particularly those who sat near the bar, that the witness had taken more liquor than he ought. But he had given his evidence as clearly as any other witness who had been examined at the bar; and he thought it beneath the dignity of the house to take any notice of the state in which he was.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that if the question was as to the punishment of the individual, it would be desirable to take into consideration the time he had been summoned. But he thought that the whole of what they desired might be attained without expunging the evidence, by an entry upon the minutes that the witness was, at the time of his examination, in a state of intoxication.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 understood the course to be pursued by the right hon. gent. to be, that a minute should be made of the state of the witness when he gave his testimony. There could be no objection to such a course, when it was recollected that the witness had been ordered to withdraw from the bar intoxicated, by the motion of an hon. member (loud laughter.) He repeated that the witness was intoxicated, and unless the Committee should agree to the entry upon the minutes (if that circumstance, he should vote for the motion for expunging the whole of that witness's evidence from the minutes.Mr. Dennis Browne
680 observed that the Committee was in a state in which they ought to decide whether the evidence was or was not to be allowed to
680The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had attended to the evidence, and the witness did not appear to him to be in a state to preclude him from giving testimony.Admiral Hervey
 observed that, if it was the opinion of the Committee that the witness was not intoxicated, he ought not to have been ordered to withdraw before he had been fully examined.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 either argued, that the witness was drunk, or he was not drunk; if he was drunk, his evidence ought to be expunged; if not, he ought to be again examined.Mr. D. Browne
 said, that if the witness was to be called in again, he should be examined only as to his previous sobriety; without adverting to what he might have drank since he withdrew.Mr. Bathurst
 declared, that what he communicated to the hon. member was perfectly innocent, and moreover that his hon. friend had finished his reply before he made the communication.Lord Folkestone
 believed it was the general feeling of the committee, that no individual was at liberty to suggest any answer whatsoever to any interrogatory that was put in the nature of evidence to another member. He conceived that no member in the committee had any superior advantages in this respect over any witness, who gave evidence at the bar of the house. Surely it would never be maintained, that a witness placed in that situation, and labouring under any difficulty or embarrassment respecting the answer to be made, ought to receive any assistance. Neither did he apprehend that any member of parliament was entitled to receive any suggestion from another, when he was called upon in his place to give his evidence on any question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was proceeding to animadvert with a considerable degree of warmth on the observations, which an hon. member (Mr. Whitbread), had made relative to the prerogative which a member of parliament had over any other witness giving his evidence, when the right hon. gent. was called to order.Mr. Canning
 objected to this mode of examination, and the witness was ordered to withdraw.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that Duff, one of the parties whom he had that evening mentioned to the house, as having papers in his possession, which came into his hands through the medium of one Kennett, in the city, had, since he addressed the house, called him into the lobby, and informed him, that he was willing to deliver up the papers. He had seen some of them, which he had communicated to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who concurred with him in thinking they were worthy the observation of the house. The person who had them, having mentioned it would be inconvenient to him to attend that evening, he had dispensed with his further attendance. He had accordingly promised to bring him the papers to-morrow morning, and he would call the attention of the Committee to them at their next meeting.Lord Folkestone
 confessed he had misunderstood the meaning of the hon. member, for he at first did conceive the hon. gent. made an essential difference between a member of parliament in giving his testimony, and an ordinary witness at the bar; and he was the more satisfied in this case because the noble lord had declared, that what he communicated was perfectly innocent.Mr. Canning
 then interfered, as there was no question before the house.The Speaker
 rose to stale, with leave of the house, what occurred to him on the subject. It was usual with the house to give credit to the statement of any of its members which met with no contradiction, and therefore when the hon. member stated yesterday as a fact the circumstance which was the ground of his motion, and no objection was made, the house, as a matter of course, agreed to it, and the order was made accordingly. But now that the house was better informed upon the subject, it would be competent for them to amend the proceeding by an order to supersede the writ. Something similar had occurred in the case of gen. Egerton, the presumptive heir to the duke, of Bridgwater.—The writ was ordered to be superseded.The Speaker
 thought, that, as the letter had, amongst others, been referred last night to a Committee, to ascertain which related to the business then in a course of investigation, and had been produced by that Committee, he could not see why it should not be read as evidence.Mr. C. Adams
 stated, that though the witness was in a state of intoxication, he had given his evidence in a clear and intelligible manner.Mr. C. Adams
 considered them as admissible evidence.Mr. C. Adams
 stated his object to be to call the attention of the committee to the state in which the witness had come to the bar. The witness appeared to be drunk, and in such case it became the house to make an example of such a person. [A cry of Move! move!)—On the question being put that Mrs. Favery be called in,Col. Vereker
 contended that it was obvious to every member about the bar, that the witness was in a state of intoxication. In such a state his testimony would not be admitted in any court of justice, and ought not therefore to be admitted in that, the highest judicial tribunal.Colonel Vereker
 appealed to the Committee, whet her lie was not borne out of his first assertion, and desired his evidence might be read, which was accordingly done, when there was a general cry of "go on."Colonel Vereker
 acceding to the proposition of the right hon. gent. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) begged leave to withdraw his motion.Mr. Sumner,
 expressed his surprise that the committee had not resorted to some proceeding on the suggestion of the hon. member. [Hear! hear!] At all events, if it was the opinion of the committee that the witness was drunk, he was of opinion that his evidence ought to be expunged from the minutes.Mr. Sumner
679 then moved, that the evidence of the last witness be expunged from the minutes. This was the more necessary, as the Committee seemed agreed
679Mr. Sumner
 wished to have the two letters of Samuel Carter to Mrs. Clarke read.Mr. Wardle
 said, as he had understood that some suspicions had been sent abroad relative to the authenticity of the D. of Y.'s letters, whose writing had been only spoken to by Mrs. Clarke, he now wished to have the matter put beyond doubt.Mr. Wardle
 answered, he did not understand that any steps had been taken for his prosecution: he was now, however, in gaol.Sir A. Wellesley
 wished permission to say a few word? in consequence of what was stated in the letter just read. He had the honour of knowing both lieut.-colonel Shaw and major Covell, and of both he had a very high opinion. But notwithstanding the suggestions in that letter, he did not think it at all surprising that lieut.-col. Shaw, who in 1804 was a lieut. colonel, should be appointed to a regiment in preference to major Covell, who was not promoted to his majority until 1807. He himself had known col. Shaw in the 70th regiment so long back as the year 1787, and, from his services in India with the 76th, that officer had claims for promotion in that particular regiment. It was under the conviction of such claims that he thought proper to recommend the appointment to his royal highness the Commander in Chief, conceiving it probable that lieut. colonel Symes would have been allowed to sell his lieutenant-colonelcy. That sale the Commander in Chief did not allow; but, when col. Symes was changed to a garrison battalion, the appointment of col. Shaw took place.Sir Arthur Wellesley
667 blamed the noble lord for the censure which he had chosen to pass on the house, and for the assumption which he had chosen to make in stating that his honourable friend, in the charges which he had brought, forward, had been supported by himself alone. Had that hon. gent. been so deserted as his noble friend described him to be, he should not have wanted his aid; but having on a former occasion, upon an inquiry into the conduct of the Medical Board, witnessed that hon. gent.'s ability, he should have thought it highly indelicate had he thrusted himself into his councils unasked and uncalled for. That hon. gent. had evinced the utmost manliness and delicacy in standing on the ground on which he had chosen to stand, single and unsupported. He had rested his character on the event, and the event would justify him; but it was not becoming any member to arrogate to himself peculiar praise on this occasion. The noble lord ought to give credit to others for acting on principles similar to those on which he had himself acted.
667Mr. Calcraft
 as there seemed to be such a variety of opinions on the subject of the state of the witness, thought that the best way would be to have him in again, and thus to give him fair play.Mr. Fuller,
 suggested the propriety of proving the hand-writing.Mr. Leach
 observed, that it was for the Committed to decide whether the letter was evidence; and until the Committee should so decide, that it was improper for the witness to state the substance of it. He therefore should move that the last answer be expunged, as, if the letter should be decided to be evidence, it would be read as such.Mr. Leach
 observed, that Mrs. C. had already answered that the appointment solicited by baroness Nolleken was not a military one, and as the present investigation was merely military, consequently the question was not a proper one to be pressed.Mr. Leach
659 reported from the Committee, appointed to inspect certain Letters which were delivered in to the Committee of the whole house, appointed to investigate the Conduct of h. r. h. the Duke of York, and to report to the house such of them, or such parts of them, as may be relevant to the matters referred to the consideration of the said Committee of the whole House. The Report was as follows: "Your Committee have inspected the several letters referred to them by this honourable house; and, in pursuance of their instructions, they have selected those letters inclosed
659Mr. Leach
 said, if ever he had known any thing of the rules of evidence, he had lost it since the commencement of this inquiry. It had been said that the witness was drunk, but that he could not observe. The witness had not given as flippant, answers as other witnesses had, who had not been suspected of being drunk. At all events, it was beneath the dignity of the house, whose conduct was now before the country, to take any notice of the circumstance.Mr. Ellison
 stated, that the evidence, if left on the minutes, would speak for itself.Mr. Whitbread
 protested that he never did lay down such preposterous doctrine.Mr. Whitbread
 rose and observed with much warmth, that his hon. friend (Mr. Wardle) was perfectly in order, that no irregularity whatever was committed, for it was perfectly consistent with the rule of parliamentary evidence, for one member to make communications to another hi course of examination.MF. Whitbread
 contended, that it was neither indecorous nor inconsistent with parliamentary rules for members to make communication to such as were close to each other.Mr. Whitbread
 repeated and explained his former observations with respect to the right which every member in the house had of communicating information to another. He did say what the right hon. secretary stated, that a member had a right to derive any benefit from the suggestion of another when examined in evidence during the pending of a question, but that question being answered, he was no longer restricted.Mr. Whitbread
 had, in reply, only to impress upon the house, that major Covell had been thirteen years a captain, and then purchased his majority.Mr. Whitbread
"JAMES LEITH, Maj. Gen. "General Sir Thos. Musgrave, Bart."658"SIR—Having had the honour to command a Brigade in Spain of which the 76th regiment formed a part, I trust you will pardon my addressing you on a subject of a regimental nature, which the interest I feel in a corps that has faithfully served under my orders, and justice to major Covell, who commanded, have principally prompted. It is due to major Covell to state, that the late much regretted lieutenant colonel Symes, from having been employed on other duties and ill health, commanded the 76th regiment but one day in the field, near Logo, where he was obliged to relinquish it; previous and subsequent to that period major Covell paid the greatest attention to his charge, and I had hoped, that under the circumstances of the vacancy occasioned by the death of lieutenant colonel Symes, he would have received the vacant commission. I apprehend it was not known to the Commander in Chief, that during the whole of the arduous retreat of the late army major Covell had charge of the regiment, and without disparagement to lieutenant colonel Shaw, it could not fail to be a circumstance of a depressing nature, to find that offi-
658"No. 10, Cork-street, Burlington-street, 14th Feb. 1809.657 stated to the house his wish to attract its particular attention for a very few moments. Although he had no distinct proposition to make, he still hoped for its indulgence, as his object was to do justice to the character of a very meritorious officer, whose feelings were wounded in consequence of some part of the examination of colonel Gordon, last night, in the committee. He alluded to Major Covell.—That respectable officer was that day introduced to him, and during the short period of his interview, expressed the apprehensions he entertained, lest from what appeared in the papers of the day, an impression might go abroad injurious to his character. He then presented to him the paper which he (Mr. W.) held in his hand. It was a letter from major-general Leith, expressive of the high opi-
"JAMES LEITH, Maj. Gen. "General Sir Thos. Musgrave, Bart."658"SIR—Having had the honour to command a Brigade in Spain of which the 76th regiment formed a part, I trust you will pardon my addressing you on a subject of a regimental nature, which the interest I feel in a corps that has faithfully served under my orders, and justice to major Covell, who commanded, have principally prompted. It is due to major Covell to state, that the late much regretted lieutenant colonel Symes, from having been employed on other duties and ill health, commanded the 76th regiment but one day in the field, near Logo, where he was obliged to relinquish it; previous and subsequent to that period major Covell paid the greatest attention to his charge, and I had hoped, that under the circumstances of the vacancy occasioned by the death of lieutenant colonel Symes, he would have received the vacant commission. I apprehend it was not known to the Commander in Chief, that during the whole of the arduous retreat of the late army major Covell had charge of the regiment, and without disparagement to lieutenant colonel Shaw, it could not fail to be a circumstance of a depressing nature, to find that offi-
658"No. 10, Cork-street, Burlington-street, 14th Feb. 1809.657Mr. Whitbread
666res angustœ domi;professed adviser"professed adviser said, that it was customary in the house to give to the different members the character which belonged to them: to a baronet the appellation of "the worthy baronet"—to a member of the learned profession that of" the learned gent."—and to the unprofessional members of the house that of "the hon. gent." It was most irregular and unjust to use any descriptive epithet but such as he had mentioned. He complained, therefore, in the strongest manner, of the term 666res angustœ domi;professed adviser"professed adviserMr. Adam
 said, that he was not aware of the circumstances now stated by the noble lord, when he made his motion for the writ yesterday. It had been communicated to him, that gen. Bertie was come to the title, and summoned to the upper house, and therefore feeling that the light of election and representation was the privilege of the electors of Stamford, he had moved for the writ.Mr. Madocks
 was not surprised at the feeling manifested by the hon. gent. for the dignity of the house. But there was n great difficulty in drawing the line for the interference of the house in animadverting upon such impropriety. He hoped that the hon. gent. would be influenced by what had fallen from the hon. baronet, and wave his motion.Mr. W. Smith
 knew of no principle recognized by parliamentary practice, by which a member was restrained from both giving and receiving communications and informations from another during the discussion of any question. On this ground he perfectly justified the conduct of the noble lord, and especially as he afterwards declared his communication to be perfectly innocent; he, therefore, thought the hon. baronet was premature in calling the hon. gent. to order.Mr. Windham
 was still of opinion, that the question was as proper as many others that had been put in the course of this investigation.Sir G. Warrender
 said, that many questions had been asked during the enquiry on subjects not merely military, as in the case of Dr. O'Meara, and he did not see why the usual course should now be slopped.Sir G. Warrender
 then gave notice, that he should, on Friday next, move for leave to bring in a Bill to constitute Embezzlement of the Public Money by any collector or agent entrusted with the receipt thereof, a felony, without benefit of clergy.Sir John Newport
 wished to ask the right hon. secretary for Ireland, whether or not any steps had been taken for the criminal prosecution of the late collector for Cork, in consequence of his embezzlement of the public money?Sir J. Newport
 was of opinion, that the answer ought not to be expunged.Sir T. Turton
 declared that unless some understanding should be come to about it, he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the Committee on the question for expunging the last answer, if the hon. member should persist in pressing it.Sir T. Turton
 begged the hon. gent. to reconsider his motion, as it was a question upon which the committee might be called upon to divide. He admitted that the witness was in a state indecorous for a person at the bar of that house. But his evidence was not material enough to require so strict a measure as that of expunging it from the minutes.Sir T. Turton
 moved the order of the day for the house to resolve into a Committee on the inquiry respecting the Conduct of h. r. h. the Commander in Chief.—The house resolved accordingly.Lord Folkstone
 said, he saw no danger of mistaking the gentleman for the other, who stated himself to live at Chelsea.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. now rose, and said, that before he proceeded to call in the witnesses, it might be deemed convenient to put the Committee in possession of the particular subject to which he meant to examine the first witness, Mr. Duff, the solicitor, who attended in consequence of the order of the house yesterday, with some papers he had to produce. Those papers, he understood, came into the hands of Mr. Duff, in the year 1804, in consequence of his being solicitor to the statute of bankruptcy, against a man named Robert Kennett, who had formerly been an upholsterer in Bond-street, and afterwards lived in Lincoln's-inn-fields, in the profession of a tooth-ach curer. A proposition was sot on foot by h. r. h. the D. of Y. to raise for his use the sum of 70,000l.l.Lord Folkestone
706 did not mean to oppose the motion of the noble lord; but at the same time it did not appear to him that the evidence, or the papers now proposed to be produced, had
706The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could not exactly understand the right hon. gent.'s meaning; by his phrase, the manœuvres of Mrs. C; but if the suggestion hi (lord F.) had offered to the house last night, had been adopted, namely, an additional instruction to the Committee to enlarge their inquiry into the general conduct of the D. of Y. in other respects, the Papers now moved for would be highly relevant.Lord Folkestone
 denied that the question of the hon. member had yet been answered.Mr. Bathurst
 was again called in, and examined by the Committee, as follows:Mr. ARCHIBALD DUFF
 See if Mr. Reid is in waiting.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 Why, sure, you are not going to send for him.Mrs. Clarke.
 The witness may be assured that I would not call Mr. Reid if it was not necessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 I beg to ask, whether it is necessary for Reid to be called in while I am here; may I not take the sense of the honourable house upon that; (A laugh.Mrs. Clarke.
 begged to observe, that when one of their own members was called on to give evidence in his place, he stood in the same situation as any other witness. No witness in a court of justice would venture to make his statement and then tell the judge and the jury to draw their own conclusions, in a similar case. He therefore was of opinion that the honourable member was bound to answer the question.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that there could be no doubt of the propriety of the question. Mrs. C. had stated that the hon. member had made her a promise, and the lion, member denied that he had made any direct promise. The next question, therefore, to ask, was, whether the hon. member had made to her any direct or indirect promise, and, surely, there could be no offence in that.The Attorney General
 was called for, but was not in attendance.Mr. Reid
 rose to put a few questions to the hon. member (Mr. Wardle,) whilst the Committee was at a stand waiting for the witness.Mr. Beresford
 rose to order. He thought the proceeding which had just taken place, of the most indecent description. The witness who was under examination had been ordered to withdraw at his instance, because he thought it would not be proper to call in the other witness while she was still at the bar. That suggestion had, however, been over-ruled, and Mr. Reid was called for; but when it was found that he was not in attendance, the gentlemen opposite had resorted to a kind of interlude, in a course of indecent examination of his hon. friend, in order to eke out the time till their witnesses should arrive. He must add, that it was no improper representation of the whole to call it a highly indecent, improper, and indecorous proceeding.Lord Folkestone
 replied, that the representation made by the noble lord of his conduct, was neither a faithful, just, nor a true representation. He had not communicated with any body about him as to the questions he had to put, and had acted solely upon a sense of his duty, thinking the time lie rose the most convenient to put his questions 1.0 the hon. member. Unless the Committee should stop him, he should, if not then, at least before he left the house, put those questions to the hon. member.Mr. Beresford
729 disclaimed any idea of accusing the hon. member of having com-
729Lord Folkestone
732731730 begged to otter an observation on the censure which the noble lord had thought proper to cast upon some persons, whom he chose to consider as a corporate body, in bestowing that censure for the course that the examination had taken. The object he had himself in view in calling in Mr. Reid was, that, as Mr. Reid had given evidence as to the female who passed at his hotel as Mrs. Dowler, and it was impossible he could stale her to have been the witness at the bar, he might, by appearing with her at the bar, be enabled to ascertain that fact. Upon inquiry, however, it was found that Mr. Reid was not in attendance, and whilst the Committee had to wait for his appearance, he was himself prepared to make that statement, to which he proposed to call the attention of the Committee after the case was closed on the other side. Mr. Reid had been sent for, but in the mean time several members thought proper to put questions to the hon. gent., out of which had arisen that debate which incurred the censure of the noble lord, and in which he had himself taken no part. He could assure the Committee, that no individual had communicated with him on the subject of the questions that they had put, and which called down the animadversion which began with him singly, and was afterwards extended to others. As Mr. Reid was not yet come, if the Committee would permit him and the other gentlemen upon whom the noble lord's censure had fallen, and would consent to let the matter rest here, he was prepared to state a fact which had been ten or twelve days in his knowledge, and which had been communicated to several gentlemen upon both sides of the house. He had reserved the communication of this fact till the case had been closed, and if the Committee should be of opinion that the circumstance ought to have been communicated earlier, the fault was entirely with him. His r. h. had wished him to make the statement earlier to the Committee, and consequently he alone was culpable, if it had been improperly withheld. The fact he had to state was, the suppression of testimony as to one of the charges which had been brought before the Committee, namely, that with respect to major Tonyn's case. It appeared by the minutes, that a sum of mo-
732731730The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 I rise, Sir, not to object to the proposition of the right hon. gent. but, as I am anxious to put a question to the witness, I wish to ascertain whether it would be in order after the committee had adopted this resolution. (Cries of move, move!)Sir S. Romilly.
 As an amendment to the motion of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I move that the said witness be forthwith committed to the gaol of Newgate.Lord Folkestone.
 wished to know, whether by not acceding to the amendment, the original motion was hazarded?Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that it was by no means his intention to limit his motion to the dry committal of the witness to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms. There were other objects to be considered, such as directing the Serjeant to convey the witness to his lodgings, in order to examine for this Note amongst his papers, and to have him near to the house, in case the committee should feel a wish to examine him on any point which may subsequently arise.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 on those grounds, withdrew his amendment.Lord Folkestone,
 thought, that the house should not in the present stage, direct that the wife of the witness should be taken into custody, although it might be expedient to have her summoned.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
745** believed the house would have but one opinion on this application, namely, that it was desirable to have the prisoner again brought to the bar, and he should not be at all surprised to find that he had brought the paper with him.
745**The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 I most humbly hope that this hon. house will do me the honour of excusing my prevarication; and I beg to assure them it is not from a bad heart, but a contused head. I am exceedingly sorry I have done any thing to displease this honourable house. I come here to offer every thing in atonement I possibly can, and I hope the house will do me the honour to hear me.Capt. Sandon.
 With regard to the evidence? Is it to the evidence I am to speak?Capt. Sandon.
 I have nothing more to say relative to that; I only humbly hope the house will do me the honour of excusing me the prevarication I made use of.Capt. Sandon.
—Is there any precedent, may I ask, for having two witnesses at the bar of this house at one time? (Loud laughing.)Mrs. Clarke.
—I apprehend the Committee will call to the bar what witnesses they please.Chairman.
—Before Mr. Reid leaves the place, I beg leave to say, that I never said I was Mrs. Dowler; he might put what construction he thought proper upon it; it was very proper that he did, perhaps.Mrs. Clarke.
 That was when the bailiffs were after me.Mrs. Clarke.
 May I speak a word; I merely wish to ask a question of some of the crown lawyers. (A laugh)Mrs. Clarke.
 then rose, and said, that he had been addressing the Committee at the time that the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought it necessary to introduce by a long statement the fact which had been disclosed to them this night. He should therefore return to the subject that he had been speaking of at that time. The noble lord (Folkestone) had, in a very unparliamentary way, imputed to him motives which he had no right to do. He had said that his object in putting some questions to the hon. gent. was merely a desire to spin out the time till other witnesses arrived. This was stating most unjustly (A loud cry of Order! Order!)Mr. Beresford
 considered that the hon. gent. was not in order.The Chairman
 thought the hon. gent. had completely misapprehended what he meant to state.Lord Folkestone
 would not say more on that point, as he had appeared to the Committee to be out of order. But he would put a few questions to the hon. gent. who brought forward the charges.Mr. Beresford
 said, that he asked them in consequence of a note he had received from Mrs. Sutherland.Mr. Beresford
 said, that if there was any thing in it that related to the enquiry, he ought to read it, and thus have a foundation for his questions.Mr. Abercrombie
 said, there was nothing in it that at all referred to the inquiry. (A laugh.)Mr. Beresford
 moved, that the question be not answered.—The question was expunged.Lord Folkestone
763 said, that notwithstanding capt. Sandon, by producing the paper in question, as well as others which might bear on the present subject of investigation, had certainly made some atonement, which might be the subject of future consideration with the committee; yet he could not think, in a case of such flagrant prevarication as he had been guilty of, he should be allowed to escape without a severe notice of his crime in the first instance. He would therefore move, "That for the gross prevarication of which he had been guilty, capt. Huxley Sandon should be committed to Newgate," which was ordered accordingly.—The right hon. gent. then proceeded to state, that it would be impossible to close the Inquiry
763The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. I beg pardon of the house for my prevarication, and I beg that the house will do me the honour to excuse my extraordinary behaviour; and will be assured, that all I have, and all I know now I certainly will relate. With regard to the Note in question, it is not destroyed; I have it in my possession at my chambers; if it is required I can go and fetch it; I think I can put my hands upon it: the note that you were speaking of was given me to shew major Tonyn, and to say that his promotion would not go on unless he paid the money. I took the note, and produced it to major Tonyn, with that message. I shewed him the note, with what I mentioned before, desiring him to wait three or four days. I believe he said what I related to this honourable house before, that he would, in consequence of this note which I shewed him. I brought back the note, and I have it now in my possession. He was gazetted, and the 500l.l.Capt. Sandon.
 Does the prisoner desire to add more?Mr. Speaker.
 You will offer to the house whatever you think becomes your case and situation.Mr. Speaker.
 If the prisoner has more to offer to the house, this is his time.Mr. Speaker.
 What has capt. Huxley Sandon to state to this house?The Speaker.
 stated, that there were three modes for the adoption of the house, namely, to commit the witness to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms, to deny any access to him, or to send hi in to Newgate.The Speaker
 intimated, that although the precedents of the house empowered it to apprehend supposed delinquents, and to send its officers to make every examination conducive to the ends of justice, still it would consider seriously whether the present was a case to carry such a power into effect.The Speaker
 Mr. Wharton, upon the present occasion, I conceive the first proceeding is to move that captain Huxley Sandon has been guilty of gross prevarication in the testimony he has given this night at the bar. (Cries of move, move.)The Speaker.
* Such a power was exercised in the reign of Charles 2, when a committee was deputed to examine the papers of Mr. Montague, at Whitehall.*The Speaker.
 I beg leave to move that capt. Huxley Sandon has been guilty of gross prevarication in the evidence that he has given this night at the bar.The Speaker.
 I next move that the chairman do immediately report that Resolution to the house.The Speaker.
 communicated to the house, that in such cases there were two distinct processes to be followed.The Speaker
705 said, that at the request of a very respectable solicitor resident in Lincoln's-inn-fields, named Tyndale, he felt it necessary to state, that he was not the same who had been examined at the bar in the course of this inquiry, and he was ap-
705Lord H. Petty
 recommended the expediency of seizing on all the Papers of the witness, and of taking the wife into instant custody, lest she should destroy the document which was sought.Mr. Sumner
 explained, that his object in recommending such a proceeding, arose out of the evidence of the witness himself, who stated, that his wife had access to the bureau in which this note was placed.Mr. Sumner
 begged that if the hon. member had any imputation to cast on his conduct he would state, it; at present he did not understand the drift of these questions.Mr. Wardle
 again stated, that he had no objection to answer that question. 'He never had made Mrs. C. any positive promise, and had already informed the house of all that he had said upon the occasion.Mr. Wardle
 had no hesitation to answer the hon. member's question if he had known how. He was certainly anxious to get the letters, and had already stated all that passed; bat it was impossible for him to say what might have been the impression upon the mind of Mrs. Clarke.Mr. Wardle
 I was anxious to get the letters, but made no direct promise that I am aware of.Mr. Wardle.
 considered the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to send his Serjeant at Arms, or his proper officer, as the milder and equally an effectual course.Mr. Bankes
727 contended, that, the question was merely a repetition of a question that had been several times answered. Did the hon. member mean to ask whether the general statement of Mrs. C. was false? The right hon. gent, who had just sat down appeared to him to have
727Mr. H. Martin
 said he had done his duty in putting the question, it was for the hon. gent, to answer it as he thought fit, and the Committee to require what appeared to them necessary.Mr. Croker
728 declared that he had put it in that particular form from a feeling towards the hon. gent. During the examination this night, and fast night, he had observed that questions had been put in an indefinite form, to which answers had been given that did not prove satisfactory to any body. To avoid all ambiguity,
728Mr. Croker
 thought that it was more a question of conclusion than of fact, and the hon. gent. could not be called on not only to give his own opinion, but his opinion of the opinions of others.Mr. Barham
 agreed with the right hon. gent., that the question, "Whether the statement of Mrs. C. be true or false," had not yet been answered; but the question had been put in a shape which appeared to be pressing hard upon a member of that house. His hon. friend had often declared what he had said to be, that his friends sat on the wrong side of the house. It was possible that Mrs. C. might understand the words of his hon. friend to imply the promise she stated. She and his hon. friend might have a different understanding of the conversation that passed on the occasion. But though he admitted that the question "true or false," had not been answered in a direct shape by his hon. friend, he contended that it had been repeatedly answered in substance.Mr. Whitbread
 stated, as there might be some doubt to which of the baroness Nolleken's sons the evidence of Mrs. C. given at the bar yesterday applied, he had been requested by Mr. Le Maitre, her son by the first marriage, to state that he had no intimacy whatever with Mrs. C. He was in waiting, if the house chose to examine him on this point.—This the house did not think necessary.Mr. Creevey
 observed, that his right hon. friend, who just sat down, had stated this most important circumstance with so much correctness, clearness, and accuracy, that little more remained for him than to corroborate his statement. The learned member then briefly recapitulated the several facts mentioned by the former speaker, and stated, that in his interview with the Commander in Chief, h. r. h. distinctly and clearly disavowed ever having written such a Note. On the day subsequent to the interview, col. Hamilton mentioned to him the destruction of the Note. It was then agreed between him and the right hon. gent., that they should both make communication of the circumstances to certain gentlemen on each side of the house. The right hon. gent, had done so to his side, and he to a noble lord (H. Petty), an hon. member near him (Mr. Whitbread), and another.Mr. Adam
 considered it a case where the house ought to appoint a Committee for the examination of all the papers of the witness. He believed there were precedents in the period of the South Sea House investigations.Earl Temple
 conceiving it probable that other papers connected with the issue of this investigation were in the possession of the witness, thought it advisable in the house to depute two of its members, to select and examine all the papers at his lodgings.Earl Temple,
 wished to apprize the right hon. baronet that he had a Bill in contemplation, which he intended shortly to introduce, and which, besides embracing all the objects of the Bill now proposed, would extort much further. He therefore wished the right hon. baronet to postpone the introduction of his Bill until the other should come before the house: if, however, he wished to persevere, there would be no negative to his motion.Mr. Foster
806 rose and said, that as he seldom troubled the house, he hoped for their indulgence while he stated a circumstance which regarded their Privileges. If he had asserted any thing in that house respecting any member which he knew to be founded, he should be one of the last to retract his words; and if, on the other hand, any words were imputed to him, which were hurtful to the feelings of any member, and which he had not employed, he should hold it extremely unmanly to omit the first opportunity of satisfying the feelings of such member by a candid explanation. In the Morning Post of this day there appeared a statement of the proceedings of the Committee last night, in which words were imputed to him, reflecting on the conduct of an hon. gent, which he certainly never uttered. The words were these:—"Mr. Beresford, addressing himself to Mr. "Wardle, said, he could not refrain from animadverting on several parts of the
806Mr. Beresford
 accordingly gave in the Paper, when the passage was read by the clerk. Mr. B. then said it was not his wish, from any personal feeling, to proceed to extremities with the printer in this case: he had merely taken up the matter as a gross and mischievous breach of the privileges of the house, lie would rather leave it to their discretion; but, if they encouraged him, he would repeat his motion.Mr. Beresford
 seconded this latter proposition, and rose to bear his testimony, in the absence of his hon. friend (Mr. Wardle,) that the words in question had not been used, and that the feelings of his hon. friend were in no respect aggrieved. The noble lord approved of the course proposed to be adopted, and acknowledged the handsome and honourable manner in which the hon. gent, had taken up the subject.Lord Folkestone
 observed, that if an hon. member had brought forward a complaint of this nature, and insisted upon punishment for a breach of privilege, he could not see how the house could refrain from entertaining the subject, and proceeding to punishment. But under all the circumstances it must be allowed, that it was scarcely possible but there must sometimes be mistakes. A paper had been put into his hands this day, in which there was a most complete misrepresentation, with respect to a material part of the statement which he had made to the Committee, in the affair of the Note which purported to be that of the D. of Y. But, as he was aware that this misrepresentation was altogether unintentional, he had not felt sore on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
808 thought that the liberty of the press had of lute been carried to such lengths, and the misrepresentations of the proceedings in that house, both collectively and individually, had for some time been so frequent, that it was time for the house to come to some understanding on the
808Mr. Yorke
 denied that he had ever said that any new laws were necessary to restrain the freedom of the press.Mr. Yorke
 thought the insertion on the minutes of the Narrative alluded to would be an irregular proceeding; but with respect to what had been said of the Liberty of the Press, though he was one of those who wished to support it when genuine, he could not avoid observing the recent notoriety of its licentiousness; and if public bodies allowed their proceedings to be misrepresented, it was impossible to say where that licentiousness would stop. He deprecated the severity with which the hon. gent, who last spoke had adverted, though obliquely, to the conduct of the Law Officers of the Crown, and Judges of the land, in prosecuting and punishing libellers. If men were guilty of criminal acts, there were public tribunals in the country to which recourse might be had for justice against them; but if persons were permitted to take vengeance into their own hands, by publishing their accusations in preference, it was impossible to say where the mischief would terminate. This had been the case in some recent libellous publications, the authors of which were the sources whence some gentlemen had derived the grounds of their Charges, and yet they could make nothing of the proofs those persons were able to furnish.Mr. Bathurst
 in answer to what had fallen from Mr. Whitbread, said, it would be an irregular proceeding to enter upon the Minutes of the Committee, the whole of the Narrative, by which he had felt it necessary to introduce the complicated circumstances afterwards produced in evidence respecting col. Hamilton and capt. Sandon. Whatever facts were within his own knowledge, he was ready to state if examined, and his answers would be the most regular form in which the subject could appear in the Minutes.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
811 rose. He said that an hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Whitbread) had been pleased to declare, that the present law officers of the crown had not been remiss in entering into prosecutions for Libels. That term, well worked up and sent abroad, might produce a very different sentiment in the public mind. Indeed, he himself could not avoid supposing it possible, that by "not remiss" the hon. gent. intended to imply that they had been more than properly diligent. Whether he meant so or not he did not know, but the words were capable of that construction, and would, he had no doubt, receive that construction from some of those, respecting whose conduct a complaint was then before the house. Certainly, what the honourable gentleman had said was not intended for commendation; but he would appeal to every honourable gentleman in the house who had heard of the publications against which prosecutions had been instituted, and who had read a tenth part of the publications against which prosecutions might have been instituted, whether the law officers of the crown could with justice be accused of a disposition to prosecute too frequently. With respect to the judgments of the courts of justice, the hon. gent, had insinuated, and that not darkly, that they were severe. He fully believed, that the learned and upright judges of our courts, who had pronounced their sentences with deliberation and impartiality, would not want able defenders in the house of commons, if their conduct was fairly, properly, and manfully brought forward; but he did not think justice was done them, when general reflections were thus thrown out to be re-published by persons, on the conduct of some of whom their judgment had been passed; avid this under,
811The Attorney General
 was astonished that—Mr. Sec. Canning
 spoke to order. He conceived that the house had, for a considerable time, swerved from the object before them. It was perfectly disorderly thus to prolong this debate, or to enter into any examination of the conduct of the courts of justice.Lord Porchester
 in his own conception, was strictly in order. He had entered the house a considerable time after the commencement of the discussion, but he understood that it began with a complaint on the part of an hon. member, of a misrepresentation of his sentiments in a newspaper of the day; that that occasioned a dissertation on the Liberty of the Press; that that produced a censure of the prosecutions for libels; and that that caused, what it was very natural to cause, a recommendation to the hon. gent, opposite, from his hon. and learned friend, that if he complained of the administration of justice, in that house, to do so, not incidentally, or by implication, but in that grave and serious manner which so important a subject demanded. The hon. gent, had received a very just admonition from his hon. and learned friend, and he had risen to join his admonition.Mr. Secretary Canning,
 spoke to order. It was certainly very irregular for one hon. member thus to talk of admonishing another.Lord Folkestone
 said, that after what had fallen from the chair, he could not but apprehend that he had been misunderstood. He had not complained of the turn which the debate had taken; he had complained of the right hon. gent, having talked of admonishing an hon. member; and that this was not a casual expression was evident, by the word "admonition" having been twice used in a very warm manner by the right hon. gent. Was it regular to permit one hon. member to rise merely for the purpose of admonishing another?Lord Folkestone
 declared, that he had never risen with less warmth than he had this evening. He had little or nothing to add to that which he had already said. Whether the hon. gent, complained generally of the administration of justice, or whether, as it appeared by his subsequent statement, he complained of any particular instance of mal-administration, the subject was one which it was perfectly fitting for a member to introduce to the house; but then, he dare not venture to say he would admonish, but he would suggest to the hon. gent, that it ought to be done with the utmost gravity and deliberation, and not incidentally in such a debate as the present. Whenever the hon. gent. might think proper to bring the discussion forward, he had no doubt that the venerable judges whom he accused would find able defenders in that house, amply provided with both the means and the inclination to do them justice.Mr. Secretary Canning
 stated to the Committee, that he, as their Chairman, had received a letter from lieut. col. Tucker on the subject of this Inquiry, which he would beg leave to read to the Committee.—[Here the letter, which will be found at p. 824. was read.]Mr. Wharton
 was inclined perfectly to coincide with the opinions of those who had preceded him as to the merits of the two officers; he apprehended the name of Tucker had been placed in the evidence improperly for that of Trotter.Lord Folkestone
 thought that no objection could be urged except as to the identity of the writing; many letters had been put on the Minutes on as slight grounds.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the hon. gent, was proceeding in a disorderly course. If he thought Miss Taylor had been treated severely, he should have noticed it at the time, and not now, after such an interval: if this proceeding was allowed, the consequences would be that those who were accused must defend-themselves, and thus the time of the house would be wasted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.826 rose, before the Committee should proceed to the examination of the Letters which had been submitted to a Committee last night, to make a statement, which would serve as an answer to a question put on a former night by an lion, member of that House. The question referred to the expence which the D. of Y. had incurred for the
l.l.l.826The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. replied, that that sum included all the sums paid by drafts on his royal highness's banker for Mrs. C.'s establishment. As to the other sums which had been paid on the same account, as no memorandums respecting them were to be found, they, of course, were not comprehended in the sum stated; but lie apprehended that the 1,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that this was one of the most serious inquiries that had ever been carried on before parliament, or the public. It was not only the impression it made on that house, but on the city and the country in general that was to be considered. It was in vain for them to shut their eyes to any part of the cause, and suppose that thereby they would shut the eyes of the nation. It was competent to any member of the Committee to state what he heard in every part of the town upon the subject, from persons of strong sense and sound judgment. The impression was—(A loud cry of Order! order!)Mr. Beresford
 observed, that he understood the hon. member to have risen to put a question to the right hon. gent. on the floor; otherwise he was out of order.The Chairman
l.828 said, that he had intended to conclude what he had to say with a question; but as he was not suffered to go on, he should put his question—"Do you know that the D. of Y. did pay any and
l.828Mr. Beresford
*l. replied, that he knew nothing of the allowance of 1,000*l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that he had only answered to a question put; and however irregular that question might be, an objection to it would come with propriety from any other quarter.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
829 stated, that his wish had been, when he rose before, to move that the statement of the Chancellor of the
829Mr. Beresford
 rose to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but was called to order byLord Folkestone
 who objected to any examination of his right hon. friend, because he had not stood forward as a witness, but merely produced a statement in answer to a question which had been put to him.Mr. Secretary Cunning,
l.l. had not meant to examine the right hon. gent., though he saw no reason why he should not, if necessary, be examined as well as any other member of the Committee. The noble lord then put a question respecting the amount of some, drafts, and the times at which they were drawn, to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer replied, in sums of 200l.l.Lord Folkestone
l.l. stated, that the 5.570l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.830 stated, that when his right hon. friend mentioned that sum, it was only to negative the statement which had been made by the witness
l.830Mr. Secretary Canning
l. said, that the only reason why he doubted, whether those papers ought to be referred to a Committee, was, that it would be very difficult to bring the matter to any thing; like legal proof. All the proof that there could be of the payment of the 5,570l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that, it would be better not to permit the witness (Mrs. C), who was to prove the hand—writing, to read the contents of the letters. It often happened that witnesses chose to read the letters before they would acknowledge their hand—writing, and that at least prepared them for the examination which was to follow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 No. 42 is a piece of the D. of Y.'s letter which had come from Dover with his seal upon it; it is directed "George Farquhar," and has the same sort of seal as the note that capt. Sandon had here last night.Mrs. Clarke.
Huxley Sandon.Captain Huxley Sandon."Captain Huxley Sandon; I am instructed by the Committee to remind you of the heavy punishment which has been inflicted upon you for gross prevarication, under the infliction of which you are still labouring; and to inform you, that if you persevere in the same system of gross prevarication, you have not yet experienced all the punishment which can be inflicted upon you by the justice of the house of commons." addressed him to the following effect:
Huxley Sandon.Captain Huxley Sandon."Captain Huxley Sandon; I am instructed by the Committee to remind you of the heavy punishment which has been inflicted upon you for gross prevarication, under the infliction of which you are still labouring; and to inform you, that if you persevere in the same system of gross prevarication, you have not yet experienced all the punishment which can be inflicted upon you by the justice of the house of commons."The Chairman
 said, lie by no means differed with the hon. gent, who spoke last, as to the credibility of the witness alluded to; but he could wish that he might be permitted to appear once more at the bar, as it might be in his power to give some clue, or throw some light, on the papers which had been so recently put under the consideration of the house, in consequence of his prevarication, and the measures adopted thereon:The Chancellor of the Exchequer
835 said, he rose for the purpose of saying a few words, in answer to an address to the Committee from the hon. gent. who had just sat down, which to him appeared the most surprising he had ever heard in that house. He appealed to the recollection of the whole Committee, and even to the hon. gent, himself, if he had not, from the commencement of the present inquiry, endeavoured to carry it on in such a manner as, in his mind, to avoid the possibility of such a charge as the hon. gent, had so unjustly brought against him. From the particular situation which he held in that house, he might have placed the conduct of this inquiry on other persons than himself; but in justice to the royal personage who was the subject of it—the son of the revered master whom he served—he thought it would be a more direct and a more striking proof of his respect for the good opinion of his sovereign, and of the public, as well as of that royal personage who now stood accused, to stand forward, and openly and fairly support and defend the innocence of the accused, than to put it into any other hands. In doing this, he had endeavoured to act with every degree of candour and openness; and if he could reasonably flatter himself with any part of his conduct being entitled to the approbation of the Committee, and free from misrepresentation or misunderstanding, it was precisely that which the hon. gent, had thought proper to select as the ground of his animadversion. As to the witness and prisoner who had just left the bar, and had proved himself unworthy of the smallest degree of credit, either from the Committee or any one else, he had never said a syllable which could be construed fairly as tending to support him. He did, indeed, say there had been a suppression of evidence, but he had not the most distant idea of imputing that to the hon. gent., or to Mrs. C., or to any other than himself. As to any attack which, might have been made upon the hon. gent. in the course of this inquiry, he could only say there had been none from him; and he hoped, therefore, that what-
835The Chancellor of the Exchequer
839 said,
839The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that it would be necessary the letters he had just alluded to should be sealed, and placed in the custody of some proper person or persons. It seemed, however, difficult to fix in whose hands they should be left, so as to give the members of that house an opportunity of seeing them, and making such extracts as they might severally think proper to make.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
840 said, that an observation had been recently made by an hon. gent., which appeared to him as highly important as any that had been made in the course of this examination, viz. That on a close inspection, the turn and texture of many of the letters in the Note of the D, of York was different from those of the other Letters said to be written by him. He could, therefore, wish that some other persons, such as those of the Bank or Post-office, who were in daily habits of examining different hand-writings for the purpose of detecting forgeries, might also be permitted to see them, and be called on for their opinions before the Committee: and to
840The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was sorry this had not been mentioned sooner before the Committee, because he thought the more letters written by the D. of Y., which they had to compare with the Note, the better able they would be to form a decided opinion as to the difference. It had been proposed that Mrs. C. should produce a bundle of the Duke's letters which she had in her possession, but that not being agreed to at the time, there would not now be an opportunity of having an inspection of those letters along with the others.Lord Folkestone
 intimated, that the proper officer to take care of the Papers was the Clerk of the Journals and Papers, and he should be ordered to permit members of the house to peruse and make extracts from them, but no one else.The Speaker
 was not aware that he was called upon nicely to measure and weigh every expression that might chance to be used in debate, or that his duty demanded his interference, unless he felt strongly that any personal disrespect was intended.The Speaker
 decided, that as the debate had taken such a turn, Mr. Canning Was strictly in order, and that the noble lord was not warranted in his objection.The Speaker
 said, if the hon. gent, did not wish to make any formal complaint, it would be best to hold the business over in suspense, in order to see whether the party persisted in statements of the same colour and tendency; and therefore, he suggested that the subject should be further considered on Monday sennight. —Mr. Beresford acquiesced.The Speaker
 said, that the course usual on such occasions was to give in the Paper containing the misrepresentation to be read by the clerk; and then to move that the printer do appear at the bar on a future day.The Speaker
805 suggested to the right hon. baronet, that the regular course of proceeding in such cases, was to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better
805The Speaker
 rose to order. He had understood it to be the rule of the Committee, that each witness should answer only to facts within his own knowledge, from which rule the statement of the right hon. gent, was a departure.Lord Henry Petty
 coincided in opinion with his hon. friend who had just sat down, as to the open and candid conduct of the Chancellor of the Exchequer throughout the whole of the inquiry, which he thought deserving his warmest approbation, and of which he was sure a misconception only could have drawn to it the animadversion of the hon. gent., who had with equal candour brought forward these charges.Lord H. Petty
 thought it would be better that such inspection should take place at the bar, and then the Committee might see any impression, which surprize at the difference, if any should be found, might raise on the countenances of the witnesses.Mr. C. Wynn
 said, he had certainly felt otherwise the moment he delivered his sentiments; but from what had been said by his hon. friend and the noble lord who had just sat down, and since the very handsome explanation which the right hon. gent. had done him the honour to give upon the subject, he was very happy to say, that what had fallen from him so recently on that, head was merely the effect of misunderstanding.Mr. Wardle
834 said he wished to obtain the attention of the house to a few observations he was desirous to offer to their attention. It would easily be recollected with what a pompous display of eloquence the right hon. gent. had, on their last meeting, ushered in the statement he had made of a circumstance which he had till then purposely kept back, and which he had then thought proper to bring forward, in an attack upon him, founded on an accusation of his having been guilty of a suppression of evidence. Many and repeated had been the attacks which had been made against him from various quarters since the commencement of this inquiry, and he had endeavoured to treat them all with the indifference which was due to them. That attack, however, which had been made on him by the right hon. gent. In the course of the last night's proceedings, was of a more serious nature than any of the rest, and he would own that he really felt it as most harshly and most unjustly imputed to him. He had deemed it his first and paramount duty, in the prosecution of this inquiry, to carry it on in such a manner as was most likely to attain the ends of public justice, which was solely and entirely the object aimed at, and with that view had refrained from attending to the various and violent attacks which had been made, and the broad insinuations which had been thrown out against him. A time, however, would shortly arrive when he should have an opportunity of answering and repelling those attacks, and of shewing that he had been actuated only by what he thought a due
834Mr. Wardle
 wished here to read a Letter which he had received from Miss Taylor relative to her testimony:—"Sir—Mrs. Hovenden has chosen to draw some inferences unfavourable to me in her evidence. I have only to say, that she visited me once at Bayswater and once at Dalby Terrace. She has said she would not place her daughter under my care. I do not know whether she would do that or not: but I know she sent her niece, of the age of 14 years, on a visit to me. (Signed) ANNE TAYLOR."—Mr. Wardle
 rose for the purpose of paying a just tribute to the talents and services of the officer in question. He had known him particularly well in Portugal, and certainly esteemed him a very meritorious officer. He was the more willing to state this, as he had many communications with that officer's family; and he believed, that at the time col. Tucker was about to be promoted, several applications had been made to him offering him advancement, by money-brokers, which that officer spurned at with becoming contempt. He knew that col. Tucker got his promotions properly, and all by brevet rank.Sir A. Wellesley
 admited that the collector of Cork had embezzled this sum; but it was the collection of only one week; and he eloped at the moment that a commissioner was sent down to enquire the reason of his delaying his payments.— Leave was given to bring in the Bill.Sir Arthur Wellesley
l. insisted that the statement must be placed some where or other. An honourable member had put a question, whether no more than 1000l.Mr. Fuller
 Then, sir, any answer to your question is sufficient. (Order, order, order!). Any answer to your question— (Order, order, order!) Any answer to your question is sufficient. (Loud cries of Order, order, order!). Why am I out of order? Why am I out of order? Why not give an opportunity of making known the answers through the same medium as the question?Mr. Fuller.
l.l.l. What would the house or the public wish for more, than that 16.000l.l.l.Mr. Fuller.
 declared that he had been misunderstood by the hon. gent., as he had put the question in order to obviate any such impression as that alluded to by the hon. gentleman.Mr. Cripps
827 returned thanks to the right hon. gent, for the attention which he had paid to the question put by him on a
827Mr. Cripps
807 did not object to the motion; but at the same time observed,
807Mr. N. Calvert
 said that he might have misconceived the right hon. gent, but that he understood him both on this and a former occasion to have said something to that effect.Mr. Whitbread
not,809 rose, and said he could not agree with the principle laid down by the right hon. gent, who spoke last, of acting with rigour in the case of an unintentional misrepresentation of what had passed in that house. The mischief arising from such errors was nothing in comparison with the good which the country derived from the publication of the substance of what was spoken by members within those walls. This was not the first time of late that the right hon. gent. (Mr. Yorke) had expressed his disapprobation of the licentiousness of the press; but before the right hon. gent, complained of that licentiousness, in respect to the publications to which he had before alluded, it should be proved that they were libels, and unfounded in truth. On the contrary, those publications complained of were productive of the happiest consequences to the country, in promoting inquiries which otherwise would never be instituted. The right hon. gent had said, that the privileges of the house were equal to their own protection; but he never knew from any in
not,809Mr. Whitbread
 I rise only to say that I am ready and willing, if it be consistent with the forms of the house, to state to what particular judgments I have alluded.Mr. Whitbread.
813 assured the right hon. gent, that he should be always happy to hear any thing from him in the way of 'admonition;' in the present instance, however, it was quite unnecessary. He had not accused the Judges of too great severity, but he had said they could not be accused of lenity in their sentences, on those who had been convicted of supporting the licentiousness of the press. He had also said, that too severe judgments would only pro-
813Mr. Whitbread
 admitted, that the right hon. gent. was not to blame, but insisted, that it was impossible to place his statement upon the Minutes.Mr. Whitbread
 said he had distinctly understood the rt. hon. gent. in the statement he had made last night, to say expressly, that he meant not any thing against his hon. friend, but merely alluded to the witness who was the object of that statement. He could not avoid bestowing on the right hon. gent. his warmest praises for the very manly, open; and candid manner in which he had conducted himself through the whole of this inquiry. He was certain it must have been observed by the whole Committee, and wanted only the addition of his hon. friend's testimony, who had unquestionably misconceived him, to make it complete. He hoped, therefore, his hon. friend would reflect on what had passed, and he was sure he would come to a very different opinion on the subject to what he had so lately expressed.Mr. Whitbread
l.l. wished to know whether the sum of 5,570l.l.Mr. Creevey
 thought, that if capt. Sandon was to be examined any further, the Chairman ought to admonish him, that the House could inflict still farther punishment upon him if he continued to prevaricate.Mr. Fremantle
 said, he had carefully perused the note and the two letters, and en a comparison, perceived a great difference in the turn and formation of several of the letters, which made him doubt their being of the same hand-writing.Mr. Mellish
 then said, he hoped that capt. Sandon would not be brought again to the bar to give evidence. He had so completely disqualified himself from any sort of credit, that he thought it would be worse than wasting time to ask him any more questions.Mr. W. Smith
 expressed his opinion that the observation alluded to by the right hon. gent., was highly important, but as it contained a most minute criticism, he thought an examination of the several letters at the bar, would be too brief and sudden for the gentlemen inspectors to form that decided judgment which was necessary. He should therefore prefer the proposition of the right hon. gent.Mr. W. Smith
 thought that the time of Miss Taylor's letter being read was the most proper for him to make his remark on the subject, and he only wished to know whether any proceeding was intended to be founded on her letter: however, as the house did not seem inclined to entertain the subject, he was not anxious to press it.Mr. W. Smith
 wished to know whether the hon. member intended to found any proceeding upon the letter of Miss Taylor; he thought her case was a peculiarly hard one; he did not see why any shadow of disgrace should attach to her (cries of Hear! and Order!). I should imagine (said Mr. Smith) that when any man rises in this house to advocate the cause of an unprotected female, he should be suffered to proceed.Mr. W. Smith
 agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. gent, except in so far as he seemed to consider the pressure upon any particular member as the measure of punishment. A member might feel himself severely aggrieved, and from a proper sense of his own dignity, propose a severe punishment, when the house might see reason to dispose of the matter in a very different way. The person who made the misrepresentation might be wholly unconscious that he did so, and might have no idea of the mischief that might result from it; but, at the same time, had it been thought fit to call the parties to the bar, and to have them such reprimand as the nature of the case might require, he did not see that the parties themselves would have had any right to complain. This, he believed, would not injure the liberty of the press, for which none could be a more strenuous advocate than he was. lie, however, thought the course at present proposed perfectly proper, and fully agreed, that while tile publication of the proceedings of the house were connived at, and he hoped it would always be connived at, unintentional mistakes ought to meet with indulgence.Mr. W. Smith
814 said, that one serious
814Mr. Sturges Bourne
l. wished to know whether 16,000l.Sir G. Warrender
 thought that the course suggested by the right hon. gent., of referring the matter to a select Committee, would have been the wisest.Sir G. Warrender
l.l.l., said, it would be time enough to withdraw his Bill, when he should find that his objects were answered by the Bill now announced. It had been already provided by a regulation, that no greater sum should remain in the hands of any collector than 300l.l.l.,Sir John Newport
 amended his motion.Sir John Newport
l. rose pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to render the Embezzlement of Public Money, by any collector, agent, or other person entrusted to receive the same, felony without benefit of clergy. Not anticipating any objection to the Bill, he felt it unnecessary to trouble the house at any length now. He found, so long since as the 29th of his late majesty, a Bill had passed, to render it felony without benefit of clergy, for any person employed in the collection of public monies in Ireland, to embezzle any sum above 50l.Sir Joint Newport
 objected to the Letter's being entered on the Minutes, as it could not possibly be evidence.Sir T. Turton
 was happy to add his mite to the applause of the gallant general as to the brother who had fallen, and he was sure the same justice would be done to the living brother. He would afterwards move that the Letter should be entered on the Minutes.Earl Temple
 thought that if the writing was first proved the difficulty would be done away.Earl Temple
 in this protracted investigation, deprecated any proceeding, such as the appointment of a select Committee, which would protract it still more.Earl Temple,
843l.842 observed, that notwithstanding the order of the house was
843l.842The Secretary at War
 said, that he had only waited till the whole Reports of that Committee were brought forward, and would immediately proceed on this subject.The Secretary at War
 said, as there was no vote for either of these asked this day, it might perhaps be as well not to enter upon the subject, till it came regularly before them, when there would be sufficient opportunity for explanation.The Secretary at War
d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.844 then moved: 1. "That a number of Land Forces, not exceeding 133,922 effective men, commissioned and non-commissioned officers in-
d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.844The Secretary at War
 answered, that when he made the statement a few days ago, he had mentioned to the Committee that the different tradesmen who had received sums of money from Mrs. C., were in attendance to prove the sums they had respectively received; and he at the same time stated, that if the house was disposed to go into a particular investigation upon the subject, it might be expedient to appoint a Select Committee for the purpose. He had also stated, that it would be impossible, he feared, to bring specific proofs of the actual conveyance of the money from h. r. h. to Mrs. C., as the messenger who conveyed it could only prove that he had brought the sums from the banker to h. r. h., and afterwards conveyed a number of separate parcels from h. r. h. to Mrs. C., but could not prove their contents. He regretted, if the house was disposed to adopt the plan of a Committee, that the interval had been lost. There had been a variety of opinions expressed on the subject, but no gentleman intimated any wish for the Select Committee at the time. If, however, the house was now disposed to adopt the committee, he had no objection.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was, however, of opinion that the report of a Select Committee on this subject, like other Select Committees, to whom particular points had been referred in the course of this Inquiry, would be satisfactory to the house, as the former reports had been. He had conversed with the members of the other committees, who acknowledged that every thing had been conducted, on both sides, with the utmost candour and fairness; and he therefore thought, that such a committee in the present case, composed more numerously, if deemed expedient, would much expedite the business, save the time of the house, and be perfectly satisfactory,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to express his wish that a mis-statement, which appeared on the face of the Minutes of Evidence taken before the house, should be corrected. It related to the evidence of Mr. Greenwood, in the case of Mr. Elderton, who was appointed to a paymastership in consequence of his recommendation; but Mr. Greenwood was represented on the Minutes to have said, that subsequent to his first recommendation, he found upon inquiry that Mr. Elderton was a person unfit to be recommended, in consequence of which he forwarded a remonstrance to the D. of Y. upon the subject, but Mr. Elderton's appointment had taken place notwithstanding. Now, having himself some doubts as to the accuracy of the statement, he had appealed to Mr. Greenwood himself, whose authority he had for stating that the Minutes on this point were inaccurate; and he proposed to call Mr. Greenwood to the bar for re-examination, in order to correct the error.Mr. Abercrombie
 said, that the evidence of Mr. Greenwood had not stated his having made a subsequent communication to the D. of Y. after his first recommendation; but he stated that he found Mr. Elderton a person of improper character after his first representation, and that the appointment had taken place before his second representation reached the Duke.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he received his information from Col. Hamilton.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 informed the Committee, that he had received a Letter from general Clavering, stating that there was a seeming inconsistency in his evidence, and expressing a wish that he might again be called before the Committee in order that he might explain it. [A cry of read! read!]The Chairman
 said, that if gen. Clavering wished to correct any thing which appeared to be inconsistent or contradictory in his evidence, let him be summoned, or let him attend if he was there; but he saw no reason why his Letter should be read.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
849 observed, that this objection of the hon. gent. ought to have been made when the subject was first introduced to the notice of the Committee; for when it had been decided that such evidence should be resorted to, it seemed rather hard that any opposition should now be made to it. He supposed, however, the hon. gent. left the house the other night before the subject was mentioned in the Committee. In the course of the last night's discussion on this inquiry, an hon. member under the gallery had observed, that having carefully compared the Note with the two letters which had been actually proved to be the Duke's hand-writing, the letters in the Note appeared to him, from their formation, to be more like an imitation of letters than a regular hand-writing. On this it was thought necessary that the information should be attended to, and followed up as accurately as possible; and as it would be altogether out of the power of all the members of that house to examine the Papers so minutely as to form a decision on the point, it was thought most adviseable to apply to four or five persons of the Post-office and the Bank, who were in the use and habit of investigating such points in cases of life and death. If these Letters and Note were only to be submitted to a jury of 12 men, they might all of them examine all the letters so minutely, as to decide the point by themselves; but in so great a number as the members of that house, such an examination would be absolutely impossible. Such a proceeding had been allowed in a trial at bar by
849The Chancellor of the Exchequer
851v.850 said he came prepared to make the same objection, in which he had been anticipated by the hon. gent. below him; and he must observe generally, as to this kind of evidence, that whenever it had been resorted to, it was always in the case of its being the best evidence that could be obtained on the subject. Mrs. C. had given a direct testimony, and if gentlemen would seriously and carefully attend to the whole of her
851v.850Lord Folkestone
 said a few words in favour of the witness being called in.Mr. Beresford
853in equilibrio; said, that as this point had been objected to, it behoved them to look well to the case, to see if they were doing what they ought. They might set up technical or legal proofs to bar such a mode of proceeding; but this case was nothing like what was so called in courts of law. As to Mrs. Clarke, he should give no opinion on her evidence. He should not follow the example of the noble lord who had penegyrised the lady on the occasion, because he thought it was premature to do so at present. As to the others, there was not one of them, but gen. Brownrigg, to whom a legal question had been put, and that question he had answered so as to deny that it was, in his opinion, the hand-writing of the duke of York. So far, therefore, from the fact being absolutely proved, there is still a doubt, it stands at present 853in equilibrio;Mr. Bathurst
854 said, the question appeared to him to be of such high importance that he thought the Committee should not determine on it before they were in possession of more information. The object was very different from that of courts of justice, and therefore the house could not be bound by the same ties. The right hon. gent. opposite had not stated the matter fairly, when he merely talked of a decision at bar, and one at Nisi Prius. The fact was, that in the case of Revett and Braham, which was a trial at bar, the decision was so contrary to the established principles of law, and gave so universal and great an alarm to the whole bar, that on the subsequent occasion in the case of Nisi Prius, Mr. Baron. Hotham, who was well known to be a judge very diffident of his own opinion, took on himself to reverse the law held on the other case, of the trial at bar: and it was very evident, and perfectly well known, that he, a single judge sitting at Nisi Prius, never would have undertaken to overturn that decision of the court, had he not been well aware that it had been highly and loudly condemned by the universal opinion of the whole bar. There was no question of law so nice, as that of saying whether any certain piece of writing was that of any one particular person or not; the property, the liberties, and the lives, of all the subjects of this realm, were deeply interested in it; and it ought never to be forgotten in that house, in particular, that Algernon Sydney lost his life by admitting a comparison of hand-writing, and as lord Ellenborough had so lately argued the case most seriously, the house ought well to consider whether this was really law or not. He should be sorry to take up the time of the Committee, by going deeply into the reason of this case, but he had really heard nothing
854Sir Samuel Romilly
855 said his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down, could not more highly respect the judicial opinion of lord Ellenborough than he himself did; but when he considered that in the case alluded to he went to Maidstone as counsel for the defendant, all the law he had then held on the subject was merely that of an advocate, doing the most he could for the cause of his client, but was by no means to be considered in the light of a judicial opinion. He could not allow the reason given by his hon. and learned friend for baron Hotham's over-ruling the decision of the court, because it was the universal opinion of the bar that that decision was contrary to law. In the case of Revett and Braham, the point was, whether the hand-writing was feigned or real; and this was to be determined by persons from public offices, who acted as inspectors. In the trial before baron Hotham, the inspectors from the Post-office were asked whether the hand-writing of the defendant Cator was a feigned hand: so far it agreed with the case of Revett and Braham; but it went further, and having proved the opinion that the hand-writing was feigned, they proceeded to ask, whe-
855The Attorney General
 rose to order:—He thought the proper course of examination was that which had been pursued by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Bathurst
 did not understand the objection of his hon. friend on the opposite side. His hon. friend behind him (Mr. Beresford) having formed his own judgment by an attention to the formation of the letters, wished to direct the attention of the witness to the particular circumstances which had weighed with himself before he asked him the general question. This he thought perfectly proper; and as his hon. friend had been in a situation where he himself had been in the habit of comparing hands, he had given up the examination of this witness to him.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended that the examination ought to be confined to the general question; for as to a trifling difference in a word or a letter, the hand-writing of each of the members of the house might so far vary at different times. But the point was, whether, on a view of the whole the witness was of opinion that the writings were the same. The question he thought the more improper, as the hon. gent. had founded it on an opinion of his own.Mr. Bathurst
 remarked that the witnesses now called were not called with a view to prove the handwriting of the D. of Y., but to say whether the two papers shewn them were in the same hand-writing. The question, he contended, was in substance unobjectionable; for it was proper and important to direct the attention of the witness to the materials upon which he was to judge; and this he supposed was the object of his hon. friend.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that having been himself in the habit of examining handwritings with a view to detect forgeries, he had looked at the Note and the other Letters, and had made observations which appeared to several gentlemen to whom he mentioned them to have weight. He had refrained from asking any questions of the two first witnesses, as he might from the circumstance have a prejudice in his mind that might lead him to ask an improper question.—(A laugh). But the gentlemen around him seemed to think there was no impropriety in his asking questions, and pointing out the particulars to which he wished the witness to attend before he gave the general answer. But he would be sorry to press any question which might be thought improper, and if there was any objection to his last question, he would abandon it.Mr. Beresford
 moved that the question be expunged, which was accordingly done.Mr. Beresford
—They are my handwriting.General Clavering.
 was not zealous to cover gen. Clavering, but he did not believe, that although between his letters and his verbal testimony there existed contradictions, still it could be proved that he had prevaricated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, that he had not heard the evidence distinctly, and if he was to be called upon for a vote, he should move that the short-hand-writer should read the whole of the evidence.Mr. Calvert
877 observed, that gen. Clavering had come to the bar to explain his former evidence, and that it was not therefore a
877Mr. Yorke
 said, that in case of prevarication, he thought the house should proceed immediately to the punishment of the witness. In case, however, of a witness contradicting a statement he had before made, he thought it would be much the best way to go through the whole of the case, and afterwards consider what course should be taken with the witnesses who had contradicted themselves, He thought, therefore, the hon. gent. would do best to withdraw his motion for the present, and bear the matter in his mind till that time should arrive.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. thought, that as gen. Clavering had on a former night given evidence in which he found he had been mistaken, he had no other course but to come down and explain the mistake. However contradictory this statement had been to the former, there was no prevarication in what he stated to-night, as he had concealed nothing, but told of his offer to Mrs. C. of 1,000l.The Secretary at War
 wished to ask the right hon. gent. in which of the conferences stated by him to have taken place with different persons, in the transaction of the particular Note in question, he was informed of the suppression of that Note by Captain Sandon.Mr. Charles Adams
 said, that he had felt the case so strong, that he did not apprehend any doubt; but as there was a doubt, he should very readily agree to postpone the discussion.Mr. Wynn
 on this suggestion, consented to withdraw his motion.Mr. Wynn,
 said that as soon as the names on the List were disposed of, he should take an early opportunity of bringing forward the prevarication of general Clavering.—Adjourned at three o'clock on Tuesday morning.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 perspicuously contrasted the various parts of gen. Clavering's testimony, in order to justify his motion, and concluded with admonishing the Committee, that the country would put an injurious construction upon that system which would vent on the same misconduct, in humble life, that severer measure of punishment, the infliction of which on the higher rank of delinquents it would oppose.Mr. Wynn
 rose to discharge a painful duty; but, painful as it might be, it was a duty, and he should not shrink from the discharge of it. The Committee must be aware of the nature of the testimony given by the witness who had just withdrawn, and as he had been warned that he was to give his evidence at his own peril, and had exposed himself to the animadversion of the house, he should move, That general Clavering has prevaricated in his evidence.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 then explained the nature of these losses, and the hardship it was upon Colonels of regiments to pay at the rate of 35 per cent. as duties on necessaries exported for his majesty's service. From this, and other taxes upon their profits, they were now 60 per cent. less than they were formerly. He was glad therefore to hear from the Secretary at War, that in consequence of the Sixth Report of Military Inquiry, some relief was intended to be afforded them in the course of this Session.General Gascoyne
 would be glad to be informed what was the cause of the increase, he observed from the Estimate on the Public Department; and also how it happened after so many Volunteers had gone into the Local Militia, that the expence for that species of force was the same as last year.Mr. Calcraft
 trusted his hon. friend would not prematurely press a motion, which went to affect the honour and feelings of a gallant and deserving officer. For the last eight years he had not the honour of a frequent intercourse with gen. Clavering, but from what he did know of him, he was convinced there never was a man who would more studiously avoid any conduct which an honourable mind would disapprove. He had listened attentively that night to his examination, and he could by no means prepare his mind to say, that in his testimony there was any prevarication.General Mathew
858 said, that the house had de-
858Mr. Ellison
l.l.l. observed, that although these matters were not absolutely before them, he would be happy to give the hon. gent. a short answer to his question relative to the Public Department, which was this year estimated at nearly 30,000l.l.l.Mr. Long
 although alive to the feelings of friendship, by which his hon. friend was actuated, still could not, in regard to the dignity of that house, sacrifice the paramount demands of justice.Mr. Whitbread,
 said, he saw no difference between a jury and the members of that house, as he thought no member would give his judgment without having examined the papers carefully with his own eyes, and after he had so done, he believed there was not a member who would not give his opinion in preference to his own eye-sight, before that of this witness, or any other who formed his judgment from the same basis.Mr. Whitbread
848 rose, and the witness was desired to withdraw. The hon. gent. then said he apprehended the Committee had already examined several persons who were deemed the most competent to know the D. of York's hand-writing. It would seem, from what he had been given to understand, that this gent., who was then produced as a witness, knew nothing of the Writing of his royal highness; and it appeared to him somewhat extraordinary that the Committee should now resort to an evidence not nearly so strong as that of those witnesses who had already been examined. Such a rule as that which the Committee was now about to pursue had once obtained, he believed, in courts of justice, in cases of capital offences, but it had for some time been discontinued. If that were really the case, he begged the house to consider seriously what must be the effect of calling this witness before they agreed to admit him to the bar; for, however inclined they might be, to give every indulgence in their power to the royal personage who was accused, yet they should well weigh in their minds whether any person would, if standing before them on the same or similar charges, be allowed an equal degree of favour. In his opinion, they had given latitude to col. Gordon, in permitting him to take a paper from his pocket, and compare it with the Note which he was called upon to say, whether it was, in his opinion, the Duke of York's hand-writing; yet almost immediately afterwards 40 letters were shewn to Mrs. C., and she was told that she must not read any one or any part of any one of them; but must, from merely viewing the signature, say positively whether they were her's or not. It would seem rather hard that she should not have been allowed to see whether any alterations or interpolations had been made in any of them, but from solely the name at the bottom, should be obliged to allow they
848Mr. Whitbread
 expressed his surprise that any objections should be made to the examination of the proposed witnesses, and observed, that those who made it their business to mark and compare different hands might reasonably be considered as more competent to judge of such affairs than others.Mr. Brand
 was sorry to interpose, but he had an objection to state different from that of his right hon. friend, who had just sat down. He thought it of great importance that the house and the committee should be consistent. A witness had been before rejected because he could speak only from signatures, and this witness stood in the same situation.Mr. Elliot
852 said, that having given his opinion in favour of the proceeding on the last night of the Inquiry, he should certainly maintain it then, though in direct opposition to that of his hon. friend and the noble lord, with whom he was generally in the habit of voting. The subject, indeed, divided itself into more branches than he was inclined to enter upon at that moment, but he could not help offering a few observations on it. He was sorry the mode of examining witnesses on oath had not been adopted, as he thought this house ought to examine on oath as well as the other, and he believed the custom had obtained in the other house from the circumstance of their being more frequently used to act in judicial capacity. As it was, the house must now proceed in the way that it set out with. There appeared to him great confusion in the manner of arguing the subject. The first question in these cases generally was, Have you seen the party write? and in answering this the witness did not give his opinion on having seen the party write, but on what he had written, which was merely matter of opinion from comparison of the hand-writing. That this, however, was, after all, a very uncertain mode of proceeding, he was ready to admit. This had to him been strongly exemplified in a case which occurred in that house a few nights ago. An hon. gent. had been examined as to the hand-writing of sir Horace Mann, who had on that occasion said, that the first paper produced to him was the writing of sir Horace, and the second was not. He (Mr. Smith) had carefully and minutely examined both, and though he had never seen sir H. Mann write, from the first paper being allowed by the hon. member with-
852Mr. W. Smith
 thought the question very improper in the peculiar circumstances under which these witnesses came before the committee. They had already examined the papers, and of course had attended to the necessary particulars, and it was quite needless now to lead their attention to them. They ought first to be asked, whether they believed the handwriting to be the same, and if they answered in the affirmative, they might then with perfect propriety be asked why they thought so. But upon the principle of the last question a witness might be asked 500 preliminary questions, so as to fritter away his opinion before he gave it. The same course ought to be followed with respect to this witness, that had been adopted with respect to the two former, otherwise it might be imagined that the gentlemen who examined the witnesses, resorted to this circuitous method from the dread of an opinion contrary to their wishes.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that if he were absolutely called upon to pronounce an opinion, it must be in favour of the motion, as the contradiction was so very strong. If gen. Clavering had, upon reading his evidence, and finding that it conveyed a false impression, come down without delay, and explained it the next day, it would have had a very different aspect; but he had waited eight or nine days before he thought proper to make this explanation. Under all the circumstances, however, he considered that the best course would be to adjourn the discussion on the proposed resolution.Mr. Wilberforce
 called upon Mr. Wynn to point out the particular parts where gen. Clavering prevaricated before he pressed such a serious motion.Sir M. W. Ridley
 spoke a few words in vindication of general Clavering, but in so low a tone, that we could not hear what he said.Sir M. W. Ridley
 argued, that as the witness had come to the bar to contradict or correct his former testimony, he could not be said to have prevaricated.Sir T. Turton
 said he did not mean satisfactory to the house, but to the public; for his own part, he was perfectly satisfied on the subject, and had no doubts to remove; but he thought the evidence would with much better effect be examined at the bar.Sir T. Turton
 said, he did not hear the right hon. gent. mention a committee; but he feared that the report of a Select Committee would not be satisfactory.Sir T. Turton
845 wished, previously, to ask a question of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, respecting the statement made by him the other day, relative to the sums of money that appeared to have been transmitted from h. r. h. to Mrs. Clarke. Many of these sums were very considerable; and, therefore, he wished to know whether the right hon. gent. meant to examine any evidence on the subject, it
845Sir Thomas Turton
 answered, that as he understood gen. Clavering was then attending, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his motion.Earl Temple
 moved, that the Letter be read.Earl Temple
953952951950 considered the proposition of the noble lord not only untenable in itself, but wholly unsupported by the argument of the right hon. gent. who had just sat down. The view which that right hon. gent. had taken of the question fully justified the measures of his majesty's government The right hon. gent. had acknowledged that if the gallant general near him (sir Arthur Wellesley) had, as he so earnestly wished, followed up his plan, and pursued an already discomfited enemy, the result would have been as decisive and as glorious as ever marked the progress of the British arms. He had also staid, that the cause of this not having been the happy consequence, was to be found in the conduct of sir Harry Burrard and sir Hew Dalrymple; but instead of blaming those, who over-ruled the plans of his gallant friend, the right hon. gent. turned short round, and laid the whole burden upon the shoulders of ministers, because, as he argued, they had an excuse for acting wrong, in not following the advice of sir A. Wellesley; from the want of cavalry, which was the fault of ministers. How could ministers be blamed for not providing means for carrying a campaign to a satisfactory issue, when in the same breath it was acknowledged, that if the opinion of one general, who commanded in the field of battle, had been followed, it would have terminated so gloriously to the British arms? That was the species of logic, which the right hon. gent. employed, that the course of argument which he adopted, in order to persuade the house to agree to the two Propositions of the noble lord. For his own part, he had no objection to the first Proposition, which adopted the language of his majesty's Speech from the throne, and expressed the sentiments of the country; and he should not give any op-
953952951950The Chancellor of the Exchequer
925924923Irish horses.featscountrymen922921920919918 thanked the noble lord for the very fair and satisfactory statement he had given. He agreed that ministers were bound to vindicate, not the commencement merely, but the issue of the military transactions in Portugal, and he thanked the noble lord for the distinct, clear, and peremptory manner in which he had brought it forward, which if ministers could not meet they did not merit the confidence of parliament or the country. He confessed he was rather prepared to expect that the noble lord would have proposed an additional inquiry, and would have argued that the inquiry already adopted was not sufficient for attaining the ends of substantial justice. He congratulated the house, however, on the knowledge, that if the course adopted by government was not altogether approved by the noble lord, he did not quarrel with it;
925924923Irish horses.featscountrymen922921920919918Lord Castlereagh
 in so low a tone, as to be scarcely audible, stated his reasons for having approved of the Armistice and Convention; and, as they were founded upon the insufficient equipments of the army, gave his support to the original motion.Sir George Nugent,
968967966per fas et nefas.965964963962961effective,effectiveprovided960 was reluctant to trespass on the patience of the house at so late an hour; but the concluding words of the gallant general's (Wellesley) speech compelled him to rise. Having compared the Conventions of Cairo and Alexandria with that of Cintra, and drawn a conclusion favourable to the latter, and discreditable to the former, by stating that "The French army in Portugal possessed advantages which the garrisons in Egypt had not, and that those who had to decide on the Convention of Cintra knew, that there were other objects for the British troops in Portugal, which the situation of Europe, at the period of the Egyptian expedition, did not hold out:" he concludes thus, "If the convention of Cintra be disgraceful, then are those of Cairo and Alexandria also disgraceful." Mr. Hutchinson declared himself amongst, the most enthusiastic admirers of the brilliant exploits performed by the hon. general, and his troops, while in active operation in the field; he regretted that the public, unmindful of the indulgence due to the arduous situation of officers, when occupied in the discharge of painful and complicated trusts, too often Formed hasty and incorrect judgments, sometimes even condemned without investigation the most honourable individuals, and transactions highly laudable. He apprehended, that frequently in this country victory was mistaken for conquest, a flag of truce for unconditional surrender.— However decidedly he disapproved some parts of the Convention of Cintra, and the spirit of the whole, and had no doubt that that measure could not be defended by the precedents drawn from the Egyptian campaign, still less that a comparison could with justice be made to their disadvantage; yet, had the honourable member satisfied himself by merely justifying under the celebrity of these proceedings, he would have remained silent; but it will be in the recollection of the house, that this has not been the line of argument pursued; for a severe and unmerited censure has been pronounced against the Egyptian expedition, when it is asserted,
968967966per fas et nefas.965964963962961effective,effectiveprovided960The Hon. Christopher Hely Hutchinson
969 observed, that it was agreed on all sides, that the Convention of Cintra had disappointed the hopes and expectations of the country; and he therefore
969Earl Percy
973972971970 then rose, He should not detain the attention of the house to any length at so late an hour; indeed, he had but little to add to what had fallen from his noble friend (lord Castlereagh) and from his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). Yet without agreeing with either of them on some points, he should feel himself nevertheless justified in concurring with them in the same vote. It was the open, undisguised opinion of every man, that the Convention in Portugal had disappointed the hopes and expectations of the country. There was much of reasoning deduced upon the subject from analogy and example, but he must acknowledge that to him it appeared to fail. The Convention in Egypt afforded, in his mind, no apology for the Convention of Cintra. Such comparisons would be as invidious as they were incorrect. His wish was to see the country continually rising in character and glory. The idea of its degeneracy he could not endure. Those for whom stipulations were made, were unwilling parties to them. While he concurred with his colleagues in the vote he should give, there were some points respecting which, as he had already observed, he must differ from them; and these were rather political than military points; points that were beyond military competency to execute, or military tribunals to decide upon. Among these points he first objected in principle to the practice of stipulating conditions respecting which we had no right or power to act, points moreover, which were neither expedient nor necessary. He must also object to the non-admission of the Portuguese general, or government, as parties in the negotiation. It had also been stipulated that their property should be secured to the enemy. This stipulation was afterwards indeed amended; but the milder execution of it did not atone for the carelessness about terms, which we had no right to stipulate. He had further to object to the exchange of civil prisoners for Spanish troops—here again we had no right to stipulate for Spain, even though the stipulation should
973972971970Mr. Secretary Canning
 spoke against the Convention, and referring to the mode of appointing a commander for each of the expeditions to the North of Europe, before such expeditions sailed, expressed his regret that a similar mode had not been resorted to on the occasion which gave rise to this debate.Mr. Bragge Bathurst
 defended the Convention. Indeed, after all the general officers had expressed their approbation of it, he could not see upon what ground he could disapprove of it.Mr. Yorke
 was aware that many general officers of great eminence had approved of this Convention. He was not of rank to be consulted upon it; but if he had been so consulted, he had no hesitation in saying, that it should have met his decided negative.General Fergusson
974 ably replied to the several speakers on the other side. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, he observed, had pursued a course of reasoning, which notwithstanding the acquittal pronounced by the Court of Inquiry, had for its object to transfer from ministers to the general officers the whole of the blame attributed to the measure under discussion; and this after all the general officers concerned had unanimously declared that the necessity which produced this disgraceful Convention arose out of the inadequate equipment of the expedition. The noble lord dwelt upon the statement of sir A. Wellesley, that he bad a political view in agreeing to the Convention, namely, that of dispatching a British army into Spain, in order to collect and rally the scattered forces of the Patriots, so that the gallant officer had a view quite different from that of ministers, one of those ministers, Mr. Canning, having very recently declared in that house, that it was determined on their part not to send a British army into Spain, until a Central Junta was established. Let the house and the country decide from this circumstance, what degree of concert and union there was between ministers and their generals. As to the grounds upon which the motion for the previous question was supported, they seemed to hit mind
974Lord Henry Petty
917916915914913912911de jure,de facto,de jure;de facto,910909908907906905904903902901900899898 rose and spoke as follows:—I rise, Sir, in pursuance of the notice I gave on the second day of the session, to call the attention of the house to the Campaign in Portugal; and, in so doing, I feel all the difficulty under which I labour, in consequence of the long and arduous Inquiry, in which the house has, for sometime past, been engaged. An Inquiry which has entirely occupied all its attention, and engrossed all the public interest during the whole course of its proceeding; and I am sure that I do not, in any degree, undervalue the delicacy and importance of that Inquiry, or wish to dissemble the solemnity of the duty imposed upon the house in every step of the investigation. Yet I do think that the circumstances to which it relates, unfortunate as they are, would be rendered infinitely more unfortunate, if they should induce this house to suspend, for any time, its attention to the external situation of the country, to prevent its inquiry into the state of our affairs abroad, and, above all, into the application and direction of that military force, on which we must rest the permanent security of that army with respect to the constitution and government-of which we are now inquiring, as the means by which we may be enabled to restore it to its purity, if it has been sullied; and not only to restore and improve it, but to transmit it, and the spirit which animates it, unimpaired to posterity. I hope that, whatever may have passed this session, this house cannot have relinquished the idea of giving its attention to the momentous and instructive transactions of the last Campaign in Portugal; to those events, the dawn of which were dressed in such brilliant and glowing colours; which in their progress, opened so many pleasing, yet delusive hopes, but which closed upon us in darkness and brought us, wearied, disappointed, dispirited, and dejected to the situation in which we find ourselves at this day. I therefore hope, that I shall be allowed to occupy the attention of the house, and to draw it to
917916915914913912911de jure,de facto,de jure;de facto,910909908907906905904903902901900899898Lord Henry Petty
928927926 observed, that the noble lord below him (lord H. Petty) had delivered one of the clearest, most com-
928927926General Tarleton
936935934933932931930929 then rose. Before he proceeded to make any observations on what had fallen from the hon. general who had spoken last, he hoped he might be allowed to advert to some particulars in the speech of the noble lord who had proposed the Resolution. What the noble lord had said related partly to the government, and partly to the officers who had the conduct of the Expedition. For the plan and equipment the government was answerable; for the execution and the result the officers, in his opinion, were alone responsible.—He had given it as his opinion, and it was still his opinion, that the operations in favour of Spain could only be carried on with any chance of success, in conjunction with, and by the consent of the people and public authorities of that country, and therefore it was necessary to come to a right understanding with the Juntas before the commencement of the campaign. When he communicated upon the subject with the Juntas of Gallicia and Asturias, it was conceived that the expulsion of the enemy from Portugal would be a valuable object, not only with a view to the naval station which this would procure for us, but also with a view to support the operations in Spain. When he arrived at Corunna, they had heard of the defeat of their army at Rio Seco; and he then thought it his duty to offer to land his troops and to assist general Blake in covering the seat of their government. They said in reply, that they did not want men; but that the best service which could be done to them and their cause,
936935934933932931930929Sir Arthur Wellesley
 alluding to reports which had been circulated of his having had nothing to do with the Convention, and of his having even protested against it, referred gentlemen to the Proceedings of the Board of Inquiry, for an explanation of his sentiments on that head. The letter, No. 152, written by him to his noble friend and dated October 6th 1808, contained his detailed opinions upon the subject; opinions, too, which he still entertained.Sir Arthur Wellesley,
 supported the motion for the previous question.Mr. R. Ward
958957956955954 declared that it was his intention to trouble the house but with a very few observations, owing, not only to the lateness of the hour, but the present state of the question. Indeed it was unnecessary; for, notwithstanding the able speech of the gallant general (sir A. Wellesley), the lucid harangue of the noble lord (Castlereagh), and the ingenious remarks of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the eloquent and able charge of his noble friend had met with a defence so feeble as to leave him in perfect possession of the field. With all the force they had collected, they had not brought one point to bear against him; There was, indeed, remaining one literary and political warrior, who might yet perchance retrieve the fortunes of the day. (A laugh.) The noble lord had stated his opinion, that the Convention of Cintra was not agreeable to his feelings, when he had received the first intimation of its conclusion; yet he was accessary to the Answer to the citizens of London, which the servants of the crown had put into the mouth of their sovereign. The noble lord had not condescended to explain in what way even he could reconcile such contradictory conduct. The gallant general, too, had this night, in an impressive
958957956955954Mr. Whitbread
959 assured the house, that no authority had ever been derived from him, for the insertion of any paragraphs in the newspapers to the effect imputed to the friends of sir A. Wellesley. He was the only relative of sir Arthur in
959Mr. Wellesley Pole
949948947only946945944943942941have been.940939corpus delicti.938prima facie937 should be sorry to have it supposed, that in rising after the hon. general, he had a wish to do away any part of the impression which his speech could not fail to have made. Nothing could be more clear, fair, and manly than the manner in which the hon. general had spoken of all the persons with whom he had acted, and of all the transactions in which he had been concerned. He (Mr. W.) must necessarily feel diffident in delivering any opinion on subjects of which he could know so little as of military operations; and was well aware that, in offering his testimony to the merits of the hon. general, he was offering what was of little value. But he could not, for his own sake, abstain from expressing how entirely he concurred in opinion with the views and conduct of the hon. general; not only in those parts where his measures might seem to have a voucher in success, however he might still think some of them questionable in point of prudence; but in those also where the intentions of the hon. general had been unfortunately over-ruled. Though there was nothing to which he (Mr. W.) was in general more adverse than to confident judgments on professional subjects from persons not professional, and that it might be true in part that the merit of an officer could not be judged but by a judgment
949948947only946945944943942941have been.940939corpus delicti.938prima facie937Mr. Windham
 in explanation, said, that he never had intended to have established military posts from Chili to Buenos Ayres. The only posts he ever thought of, were posts for letters and communication.Mr. Windham
l. then proceeded to read the various sums to be granted. Upon that for granting the sum of 25,000l.Mr. Foster
 replied, that regular notice had been given, and he considered every member had been aware that it would be moved this day, but he bad no objection to deferring it till Monday next.Mr. Foster
 disclaimed all knowledge of the circumstances until that moment; but thought the circumstance of any bill in Chancery which the commissioners might have thought fit to file, and had yet come to no issue, was not a reason for refusing at this time the usual Grant. Besides, the right hon. baronet could surely entertain no doubt that the case, if before the present Lord Chancellor of Ireland, would meet due notice, and that strict justice would be done.Mr. Foster
 here addressed the Chairman, and said, he had just received an intimation that Mrs. C. was arrived, for the purpose of attending the Committee, and as she had been greatly indisposed he hoped the Committee would have no objection to examine her immediately, that she might be detained as short a time as possible.Lord Folkestone
 said that, as a witness was under examination, it would be irregular to do it; but in consideration of Mrs. C's indisposition, he should not make any objection to it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 answered, she would send them as soon as ever she got home.Mrs. Clarke
 desired to know by what right or title the learned gent. was authorised to inquire where all the letters, which Mrs. C. stated herself to have received, were to be found?Lord Folkestone
993 observed, that the noble lord seemed to forget that it was a Committee of Inquiry, and that it was competent to demand any documents which might be necessary either to the convic-
993Mr. Lockhart
 contended that the argument of the learned gent. went too far, because it would go to the extent that, the witness was bound to produce all her papers, in order to give the learned gent. an opportunity to look them over, and judge which were, applicable to the question under consideration. Any papers the Committee would be authorized to demand, ought to be defined; and the learned member well knew, that it was not in the practice of any court of justice to order a party to produce all his papers, with a view that the court should decide, on examination of them, which were relevant to the matter in issue.Lord Folkestone
 observed, that the noble lord seemed to have mistaken the object of the learned gent.'s question. They were not Mrs. C.'s letters which he wished to have produced, but the letters of the royal person the Charges against whom the Committee was engaged in investigating. If the noble lord, or the hon. member who brought forward the Charges, had put the question of the learned gent., he was convinced that no objection would have been made to it. The Committee was a court of inquiry, and it was certainly competent to any hon. member to call for any papers which might aid the investigation. On the whole, therefore, he thought that the letters of his royal highness ought to be produced, though if the learned gent. could take upon him to say, that they would not bear upon the subject, it would not be desirable to add them to the Minutes.Mr. Bathurst
994 agreed with his right hon. friend (Mr. Bathurst), that if any hon. member thought any one letter would throw light upon the subject, he might call for its production; and if no objection could be made to the production of one, none could be made to the production of all, if called for. If the
994The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that the witness had already declared in evidence, that in no one of the love letters was there any mention of military or ecclesiastical preferments.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that the object, of his question had been misunderstood. It was not his wish to have all or any of the letters produced. It would be. recollected that the witness had been assisted in preparing the papers for this investigation; and the object of his question was, to discover in whose hands the letters were, with a view to come at some information respecting the person who assisted her, and the nature and circumstances of that assistance. He should therefore not press his question.Mr. Lockhart
 thought the witness had said, that all the love letters were either in her own or her mother's possession.Mr. Marryat
 thought, that as the witness had stated, that the letters did not contain, any thing relating to military promotions or ecclesiastical preferments, their production was unnecessary; otherwise, he should have had no objection to the question.Mr. Rose
 replied, that he had acknowledged there was an irregularity in the proceeding, but under the circumstances of the case he thought that Mrs. C. should be examined immediately.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ab initio. stated his wish to procure the fullest information on this subject, in order to trace the conduct of that officer ab initio.Mr. Beresford
 vindicated the character of gen. Clavering from any improper insinuations. He did hope, that a long and honourable life in the service of his country, would not be aspersed without the fullest proof of what he conceived could not be substantiated.General Matthew
 agreed that it was not very material to the inquiry before the Committee; but would it not go to affect the credit of the witness, if it appeared her father never went by the name of Taylor, but always by the name of Chance?The Solicitor General
 previous to the Chairman's quitting his seat, suggested, that as the Evidence was now closed, and there would be no occasion to ask leave to sit again, a day might be fixed for taking the subject into consideration. For the sake of having the first convenient day fixed, he had inquired into the state of forwardness in which the printing of the Minutes stood, and the result was that it would be in vain to expect them to be delivered entire before Monday. As, however, great part of them were already in the hands of members, who would naturally be giving them a gradual perusal, he was inclined to think, on the idea of their being completed on Monday, that a period of two days might be allowed to interpose, and the Report be taken into consideration on Thursday. If, however, gentlemen thought that too early a day, he had no objection to Friday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 declared that he bad no wish to take the nomination of the day out of the hands of the hon. member. Friday, or any other day that hon. gent. chose, would be equally agreeable to him with the day he himself had suggested.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then left the Chair; the house resumed, and the Report was brought up, ordered to be printed, and the whole question was ordered to be taken into consideration on this day se'nnight.Mr. Wharton
 thought that the question was a fit one to be put, but that it would be competent to the witness to refuse to answer it.Mr. Charles Adams
 gave notice, that immediately after the decision of the question, he should bring forward his motion relative to the testimony of gen. Clavering.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said, Thursday or Friday were equally agreeable to him.Mr. Wardle
 regretted that these last questions were put. They had cast a doubt upon the character of the witness, which was enough to extinguish her means of subsistence.Mr. Barham
 concurred with the right hon. gent. that the questions were as painful to him to put as they were to the witness to receive; but it appeared to him that he had rather overstated what she had said on a former examination. She did state that Taylor was her father's name, but not that it was her mother's. It was by her credibility, and not by her respectability, that they were to determine how far they should believe her.Mr. Whitbread
 said it was competent for the learned gentleman to call evidence to contradict the witness, but he would maintain that any temporary change in her father's name, arising from embarrassment or other circumstances, could not affect the witness's credit. The questions pressed upon her on this and her former examination appeared to be very severe.Mr. Whitbread
 said there were but three or four Letters requisite to be delivered: he therefore moved, That all the letters, except three or lour, be returned to Mrs. C., which was done accordingly. The hon. member then requested that Mrs. C. would send two or three of his royal highness'S letters, with dates, or by the postmark of which it could be ascertained that they had been written since the separation took place. He was particular in this, because as he hoped the inquiry would close, this evening, it would be necessary for Mrs. C. to attend again, and a messenger might go with her to bring back the letters.Mr. Whitbread
 could not agree to the suggestion of the hon. member; bethought that no unnecessary delay should take place, but still he submitted that the fixing of the day would more properly belong to his hon. friend (Mr. Wardle) than to the right hon. gent. opposite.Mr. Whitbread
 wished the learned gent. to withdraw his question. As to the object stated by the learned gent., for which, he had put his question, namely, to discover who had assisted the witness in preparing the papers for the Committee, he should only observe, that, if it was the case, it would be quite natural, that the person conducting this investigation should have looked over the papers which might bear upon it. He had stated this only to shew that the Committee did not acquiesce in the inferences to be drawn from the learned member's statement of his object, that blame was imputable any where.Mr. Whitbread
 objected to this course of examination: whether she knew or not, that her father went by the name of Chance, was, he contended, of little consequence. He protested against any attempts to endeavour to draw the witness into contradictions.Mr. W. Smith
 put it to the house how far the credit of the witness was to he affected by this circumstance. She felt on the occasion as any one might feel. It was natural that she should feel a reluctance to disparage herself by acknowledging that she was illegitimate.Mr. W. Smith
1032 was anxious that on so important a subject, and one which had gone to so great a length, the House should not be precluded from such further light as they might be able to procure in the way of observation, elucidation, or contra-
1032Mr. Wilberforce
978 replied, by professing the highest respect and veneration for the truly upright character who now filled the Chancery bench of Ireland, with so much honour to himself and advantage and satisfaction to the country where he presided. It was not upon any doubt of his strict justice that his own apprehensions were founded or his objections offered, but in the perverse conduct of the Commissioners of Bequests, in endeavouring, by a strict research into obsolete acts of parliament, to fish out flaws in the legality of a will bequeathing charity to an
978Sir J. Newport
976 said, he was completely ignorant of the intended measure, and so he believed were Mr. Ponsonby, and the member for Dublin: although the Grants were usual, yet there were several which would require revision.976Sir John Newport
977l.l. called the attention of the committee to the nature of the institution of these commissioners, and a recent circumstance in their procedure, which demanded the notice of parliament before any such grant should be allowed to them. The commission, he said, was originally vested in a certain number of the members of the house of lords in Ireland, and its truly laudable object was to prevent abuses in the disposal of charitable donations and bequests, by preventing the executors, trustees, and others, to whom such bequests were confided, from converting them to their own private emolument. The Commission was executed by the lords' committee up to the Union, and it then became necessary to provide other managers, who were accordingly appointed. About two years since an elderly catholic lady died at Waterford, and by her will bequeathed to charitable uses a sum of 11,000977l.l.Sir J. Newport
 thought there was great irregularity in it, and that the examination of the witness who had just left the bar should be proceeded with.Sir T. Turton
 requested, that the right hon. gent. would defer this item, particularly as it did not appear to him to be regularly introduced, or many members must be precluded from delivering their sentiments upon it.Earl Temple
1035 rose to move for a renewal of the Committee which had sat last session on the East India Company's Affairs. The house Would recollect that last session a Petition had been presented from the East India Company, praying for a settlement of Accounts with the public, and also for aid. On this a Committee had been appointed, and though it had performed the duty to a considerable extent, yet there were various points which still remained to be considered. The finances, the trade, and several other matters had not been so thoroughly inspected as they ought to be. He stated last year, that it would be most proper to appoint such persons as were most conversant with East India Affairs; he would now move for the re-appointment of the same persons, with the exception of two, who said that it would be very inconvenient for them to attend. The exceptions were Mr. T. Grenville and Mr.
1035Mr. R. Dundus
 spoke in favour of this Committee, which, if it had any fault, it was that of leaning too much towards the East India Company. He coincided with Mr. Whitbread, in his panegyric on sir P. Francis, whose name, if he had been in the house, would have been one of the first proposed by his hon. friend to be upon the Committee.Mr. G. Jolmstone
 said, it was very unusual, when a Committee was appointed, to anticipate the report of that Committee, by calling for any particular document before the time when the others were to be produced. He doubted not but the Committee would produce that and every other paper relating to the affairs of the Company in due time.Mr. Dundas
 moved the order of the day for the house going into a Committee on this Bill; but before going into the Committee, he moved that it be given, as an Instruction to the Committee, to admit a clause into the Bill, empowering his majesty to prohibit, by Proclamation, the distillation of spirits from corn in Ireland, how and when he should think fit.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
10461045 supported the measure. He stated, that from Jan. 1808, nearly six millions of gallons of spirits had been distilled in Ireland, although not one gallon was distilled from sugar during the whole nine months of the operation of the Bill. It was solely the production of clandestine distilleries, although every exertion had been used to execute the laws, and the collectors had been most vigilant. The hon. gent, who opposed its operation being discontinued, had stated that 2,000 quarters of barley had been purchased at Lynn, at 43s. per quarter, for the purpose
10461045Mr. Foster
 said that the arguments in favour of the measure proposed were not satisfactory. As to the price of corn, its inequality could not long exist, from the proximity of the two countries. The result to the revenue would be very different from that stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for what was distilled in Ireland could be brought over to England, as the officers who would accept a bribe to permit illicit distillery, would take one in any other case, and Ireland would become a second Dunkirk to Guernsey and Jersey. This measure had affected the price both of grain and sugar; for since its introduction, sugar had fallen in price, and grain had advanced. He concluded, by saying he would vote in favour of the amendment.Mr. Marryat
 said, on account of the clause putting it in their power to prohibit the use of grain being introduced, he would vote for the measure.Mr. Macnaghten
l said, that he should certainly not support this measure, if he imagined that Yorkshire, or any other part of the united kingdom would, by the operation of it, be deprived of any part of the supply which they would otherwise receive from Ireland. He was convinced, however, that the surplus of the corn in Ireland would otherwise be employed by the illicit distilleries to the prejudice of the revenue in the sum of 700,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the bill altogether; any interference of parliament tended to increase the price of grain.Mr. Western
 observed that it was perfectly in order for a gentleman to state the grounds for his motion.The Speaker
 informed him that it was not regular to read to the house that which he was asking the house to order to be produced. It was the same as with a petition, of which a member might state generally what was the scope and nature, but it was not allowed to be read, even at the table, till the permission of the house was received.The Speaker
 said, that the constant usage of the house, to the best of his recollection, had been, that all letters received by the Speaker, and which he should deem proper to be communicated to the house, in the first instance were laid on the table, in order afterwards, at a convenient opportunity, to be copied into the Votes and Journals. In all ordinary cases this had been done. Letters had been received by the Speaker, even on an occasion not remote, upon the subject of charges pending before the house; and this was the uniform custom, even without putting any question. But, where a letter on a subject of so much more than ordinary importance was addressed to him for communication to the house, and when gentlemen to his right and left were anxious to peruse it, he felt it. his duty to suggest the propriety of immediately ordering it, in the first instance, to be copied on the Votes and Journals, that no delay might occur in placing it in the possession of every member of the house.The Speaker
1033 rose and stated, that since he had come to the house, he had received a Letter, the contents of which related to the Inquiry now pending before the house respecting the Conduct of his royal highness the Duke of York, and he wished to know whether it was the pleasure of the house that he should read it. [A general exclamation of Read! read! read!] The right hon. gent. then announced that the Letter came from his royal highness the Duke of York, was signed "Frederick," addressed to the Speaker, and dated Horse Guards, Feb. 23, 1809. The contents were as follow:1033The Speaker
1034 then said, that though it was usual on such occasions to order the Letter to lie on the table for the perusal of the members, yet as gentlemen on each side of him were anxious for the perusal; and as it was desirable to give the individual members of the house, as speedily as possible, possession of the contents of the
1034The Speaker
 regretted that it was so often his misfortune to differ from gentlemen in that house upon the subject of East India affairs. He did think that the oppressions arising from the abuses of power by Buonaparte, were not greater nor more unjustifiable than those practised by the British government in India, and there had been a time when those opinions were more generally maintained, and more openly avowed, than they now certainly were. He was therefore at all times anxious for inquiry the most strict, which to he so ought to be the most impartial. He had no personal objection to any hon. member of that. Committee, but he was sure that any member being personally unobjectionable, was not therefore a sufficient reason why he might not be objectionable on the score of partiality.Lord Archibald Hamilton
 mentioned, that the western parts of Scotland would suffer materially by permitting the corn distillery in Ireland.Lord A. Hamilton
 called the attention of the house to the petition he had presented, and expressed the effect the measure had had upon Lancaster. Considering the state of the continent, our military operations, the little probability of peace, the situation of the Baltic, and America, he would support the amendment.General Tarleton
 supported the amendment.Mr. Ellis
1042 said, if the Committee
1042Mr. C. Grant
s1051dsds approved of that part of the principle of the Bill which further restrained the Distillation from Grain. If the measure of last year had not yet shewn its ill effects, one might fairly conclude that to it was in no degree imputable the scarcity and dearness of grain which, since that measure, had been progressive. Upon this fact, and upon the continued uncertainty of foreign supply, rested the expediency of prolonging the disuse of grain in the distillation, and the landed interest in that house did not appear at present inclined to oppose it.—But he presumed that he was in order, when he considered as part of the principle of the proposed Bill, the exception of a large division of the empire from its operation; a matter he conceived of too primary importance to be reserved for argument in the Committee. One part of the United Kingdom could not fail to partake either of scarcity or plenty existing in the other; the prohibition therefore, if it was right at all, should be general. The right hon. gent., in giving notice of the Bill, at a late hour, and when the house after a long debate was little inclined to attend to any observation on the subject, had indeed stated as a reason for this exception of Ireland, that since the act of the last session, the use of sugar had not been extended, nor the use of grain diminished, in that country, while the revenue from spirits had almost totally failed there from the stimulus which had been given to illegal distillation. Even admitting these facts, they were not conclusive; for the experiment had not been fairly tried. In England and in Scotland the duty imposed by the late act on spirits from sugar, had been made exactly equivalent to that which in those parts respectively attached on spirits from grain. Not so in Ireland, where sugar spirits had been subjected to a duty of 8s1051dsdsMr. Hibbert
 said, that, as this appeared to him to be an extraordinary proceeding, he must appeal to the knowledge and recollection of the Speaker, as to former precedents, in order to direct the house in what was proper to be done.Mr. Bankes
1038 thought it rather an odd way of selecting a Committee, to fix upon those persons who were ignorant of the business to come before that Committee, to the. exclusion of those who were informed upon the subject. The hon. gent. had objected to him (sir A. Wellesley) in a pointed, he might almost say in a personal manner, but he appealed to that hon. gent. as to the line of conduct pursued by him in the course of the proceedings of the late Committee. He begged leave to observe, that it could not be owing to any material difference as to the sincerity of his views with respect to East India politics, for he (sir Arthur) had divided with that hon. gent. on a question of no trifling importance, that had been before that Committee, and he did assure that hon. gent., that of this he might be sure, that whenever the conduct of his noble relation came before that Committee, the fullest and the most rigid inquiry into that conduct should at all times have his most cordial support. Indeed, he never should shrink from not only inquiry into that, but into all that either his noble relation, himself, or the marquis of Cornwallis, had done, even from the time of the year 1782. That our East India settlements had been most considerably extended, he did not think to constitute in itself a serious accusation, but he was fully prepared to prove to the Committee, whenever they would go into it, that the extension of our dominions had not been owing, as it had been presumed, to any aggression on our part; neither had they been undertaken with any view
1038Sir Arthur Wellesley
1049 said lie was of opinion last year, there was not a sufficient quantity of food in Ireland for the demands on her. He was of a different opinion as to the present period; although the prices were high in Dublin, he was convinced there was more than a sufficiency to supply any demands that could be made on her.—He was well aware, if the distillers were not allowed to go on
1049Sir Arthur Wellesley
 entered into a comparison between the East and West Indies; the former he viewed as represented by Boards of Controul, Courts of Directors, and he knew not what, while the latter was denied justice, and oppressed.Mr. Fuller
 resumed, and made a few further remarks approbatory of any reform that could be effected.Mr. Fuller
 said, it was far from his intention to offend any one; but it was his intention neither to give nor take assertions without proof. He then proceeded to speak on the consumption of spirits, and the beneficial effects which would result from a more general distillation from sugar. Here he gave in a variety of statements and calculations to shew the bad effects of suffering a distillation from corn to exist, to the extent it did at present. He then spoke of the necessity of manifesting a greater regard for our colonies, by opening a more extensive market for their commodities. No one could be ignorant of the low state to which they had been reduced; they had now, in some measure, recovered themselves, but unless such a measure as that he proposed was pursued, their situation would inevitably become worse than ever. Adverting to the affairs of Ireland, he strongly censured the idea of any thing like a combination being in existence; it was a libel on the generous feelings and the understandings of the people of that country. The people of Ireland, he declared, were not averse to the operation of the Bill; he therefore should move, "That an instruction be given to the Committee to extend the provisions of the Bill to Ireland."Mr. Barham
 supported the present Bill. Clonmel, the capital of the county which he represented, no doubt was against the bill, but other 14 or 15 towns in the same county supported it.General Mathew
1043 said he thought the Committee a perfect farce and mockery of the public, for it will consist of two parties who ought to be in permanent hostility against each other. The gallant general had said the last war in India had produced the longest peace that had ever been known there; whereas the peace of 1781, made in a few hours, continued for a period of 19 years, till the gallant general was sent out to India with a discretionary power of peace or war in his pocket. The whole system of India had been wrong ever since the minister of the crown had interfered to set it right. The India Company were sufficient to do every thing that could be wished, but the Board of Controul would not permit it. Print the journals of the Board of Controul, and there would appear a system of the greatest fraud and peculation that was ever heard of. When the house came to the consideration of the finances of this country, which he hoped would soon be the case, it would be found that here, as in India, the shameful profligacy and lavish expenditure which had for so many years existed in full blossom, had wasted all the resources of the country in undue patronage, and influence of one kind or other. As to the Exposition, it ought to be produced, that those in the house who wished not to be on any Committee, might see how the resources of the country had been managed. Whilst the whole play of dethroning princes and rajahs was carrying on, not a word of information was sent to their masters the Directors: but they continued in full correspondence with the Board of Controul, and now they were going to club their efforts as a cover to blind the public, and keep them in ignorance of what is going on. He would advise the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take care how he parted with the public money, for he would shew soon, that the looseness and profligacy which had been used in lavishing it away, had drawn the country into all the difficulties under which it now laboured; and to give us a system which, had annihilated all the resources of the India Company, was absurd and preposterous. He had thought it necessary to trouble the house thus much on the business of this Committee, but his chief aim
1043Mr. P. Moore
1041 said, that the hon. gent. had begun by informing the house that he had not been present at the beginning of the debate: That he had not, was pretty manifest from the tenor of his speech: there was in that speech internal evidence that the hon. gent. did not hear what had gone before him. But with respect to the principle laid down by the hon. gent., in reference to public men, he had the misfortune widely to differ from that hon. gent. He protested against the principle of confidence in public men, and contended for it, that the constitutional principle was distrust—distrust in all public men, be they whom they might. He differed farther from the hon. gent. as to the importance of information on the part of those who were to inquire: information was seldom unaccompanied with bias either to the one side or the other, and even if it were not, he doubted the great advantages imputed to it. They had in their recollection three Committees: two of them, with respect to their previous ignorance of the matter into which they were to examine, might be denominated the unlearned Committees. The unlearned Committees had done their duty, while they had had as yet but one Report from the learned Committee. He had heard the speech of the gallant general, but he had heard nothing to do away the objection that officially existed against his appointment. The gallant general had told the house that he could prove such and such matters in the Committee—that he could prove the justice of his noble relative's administration in the East—that he could prove also the justification of the measures of the marquis Cornwallis—why,
1041Mr. Whitbread
1044 compared the conduct of those interested in keeping back the paper called for, to that of a schoolboy he had read of, who would not say A lest he should be compelled to say B. The Exposition called for was of great importance. It could do no harm, it might be productive
1044Mr. Whitbread
 desisting from reading the passages, took a general view of the motives which induced him to offer this motion to the house.Mr. Creevey,
 proceeded to read from the Exposition, when,Mr. Creevey
 in consequence of his notice, rose to move for the production of the Exposition, which had been laid before the last Committee, which he considered as calculated to give more information than the Report of the Committee. In order to shew the grounds for this impression on his mind, he would read certain passages from the paper.Mr. Creevey,
 in explanation, denied that he had made any personal objections whatever to the gallant general, his objection was generally to those filling official situations.Mr. Creevey,
10371036 observed, that he had several objections to the plan of constituting the Committee, as it had been before constituted, and he conceived this to be a proper time for briefly stating those objections. For the purpose of placing those objections in a just light, he adverted to the Committee, that had been appointed on the motions of Mr. Burke and lord Melville. On the Report of the Committee appointed by lord Melville, had been formed the Board of Controul, and members would, no doubt, recollect how his lordship had come down, session after session, with congratulations to himself and to the country, upon the prosperous state of our empire in the East, owing to his system. The noble lord opposite (lord Castlereagh), who had been educated in his school, followed his steps exactly, and repeated his congratulations. In 1806, however, when another noble lord (Morpeth), a friend of his, held a situation in the Board of Controul, a very different statement was produced. In 1807, the Company had come to the house with a Petition, that they might be allowed to borrow money upon their bonds, lie resisted that, unless they would consent to make a complete disclosure of their affairs. This they promised in the following sessiton, and a Committee was accordingly appointed. The house was aware of the importance and extent of the matters to be inquired into. The house had passed a Resolution disapproving of further conquests; but instead of adhering to the plan recommended in this Resolution, the Indian politicians persevered in their destructive schemes, till a great number of the native princes were destroyed, and the greater part of their dominions added to the territories of the Company. All the predictions with respect to their finances had failed, except that in one instance they had performed part of their engagements to the public, by paying 500,000l. The debt, which was to have been liquidated long before the time at which he was speaking, had constantly increased. It was impossible there could be a grosser case. In addition to this, the Committee had to consider the declaration of all the Directors, excepting one, that the wars of the marquis Wellesley were the cause of their embarrassments—that he had acted in violation of their laws, and had introduced into India a system of complete des-
10371036Mr. Creevey
 spoke to order, he considered it irregular to read from a paper, of which it was the object of the motion to obtain the production.Mr. Wallace
 did not believe potatoes had been cheaper in Ireland for many years than during the present. He must, therefore, be excused in voting against the inclinations of his constituents of Clonmel.Mr. Bagwell
 was clearly of opinion that colonial interests should at all times yield to those of the native country; but at the same time, he could not so separate the interests of the countries, as to say that England should be said to have no sufficient supply, while Ireland had. It appeared to him to be a matter of great risk to make two laws, one for one part of the country, and the other for the other.Mr. W. Smith
 rose to order. It was rather out of order to accuse the house of commons of injustice and oppression towards the West Indies; and, besides, it had nothing to do with the present question.Mr. W. Smith
1039 was satisfied that there was nothing personal meant in the objection taken by his hon. friend, to the propriety of admitting the hon. general to a place in the Committee. The objection referred to official capacity only, and he did think the objection in this point well grounded. With respect to precedent, as alluded to by the hon. general, he was one of those who thought that forty precedents together could never sanction error. So far was he from thinking that the precedent of appointing informed per-
1039Mr. W. Smith
1040 said, he was not present at the commencement of the debate, but as he had a personal interest in the question, (he being one of the members proposed for that Committee,) he did wish to say one or two words. He dissented altogether from his hon. friend who had just sat down, as to the principle that would, in its application, tend to the exclusion of the servants of the crown from a share in the debates and decisions of that house; in every tribunal it was not to be doubted that impartiality was not only a desirable, but an indispensible qualification; but he could not go so far as to assent, that due information upon any question to be tried was inconsistent with impartiality. How would such a principle, carried to such an extent, apply to the officers who conducted in that house the business of the country? Were they to be driven from the privilege of defending in public whatever measures for the general good they had devised in private? Were they to be forced to leave to others to explain what
1040Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that the knowledge of its being in the power of government to stop the distilling from corn at pleasure, would only increase their exertions in Ireland, to use the privilege while they had it.Mr. Wilberforce
10481047 wished that the petition from Waterford should be read, in order to convince the right hon. gent. that his statement was erroneous, as to its not assigning any reasons for the opinions of these petitioners. Never did a petition contain stronger grounds, or a greater variety of reasons. It was signed by a great number of most respectable names, He had the authority from the mayor who transmitted it to him, to state, that if it could have been allowed to lay longer for signatures, it would have received all those of any note or consequence in the town. He could assure the house, he had no knowledge of the progress of any such petition, so that it came to him totally unsolicited on his part. There were few parts of Ireland more competent to form a judgment of the quantity of grain on hand throughout the country than Waterford, as nearly one-third of the whole grain was supplied from it. The town of Clonmel was in one of the most perfect districts of Ireland, and every person there was unanimous in their opinion as to the propriety of continuing the restriction of distillery from corn. The right hon. gent. had taken very fallacious grounds in arguing that the prices of grain were low throughout Ireland, for he had made his calculation when the price of spirits was 7s. per gallon, and did not advert to the consequences arising from its being now at the price of 17s. per gallon. The fact was, that the increased price of spirits had the effect of increasing the consumption of malt in the breweries, instead of the consumption of grain in the distilleries, besides producing the best effect upon the morals of the people. When it was said that the encouragement to the legal distillation would put down illicit distillation, it was not advocated in Con-naught, and almost the whole of Ulster were formerly, as now, dealing in illicit traffic of that nature. Orders were issued to send two revenue cutters to intercept the grain and spirits so produced, and that
10481047Sir John Newport
 coincided with the hon. gent. as to the impossibility of complying with the petition, upon considerations of lenity towards the petitioners themselves. But he was against any proceeding that might have the appearance of harshness, or discouragement towards any class of subjects, in exercising the right, common to all, of petitioning that house. He was, therefore, disposed to think that the petition should be allowed to be on the table.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1052 presented a Petition from the Working Cotton Manufactu-
1052Mr. Blackburn
 said, the subject had been before a Committee two years since, which alter long and minute deliberation, could suggest no relief for the petitioners. It had occurred to him that the same kind of regulation which had been found so salutary in the case of the silk manufacturers, namely that of referring the regulation of the rates of workmanship to the magistrates at the quarter sessions, might have the best effects; but the idea of a maximum or minimum in the price of labour, provision, or commodities of any kind, was totally inadmissible. If, however, the house should think fit to refer this petition to a Committee, he would most readily attend it from day to day, and give every aid in his power.Mr. Rose
1055 said, he did not know how, according to the rules of the house, he could take notice of what the hon. gent. had said, as he sat down without making any motion. He himself thought as highly as any one of the privileges of that house; and it did not appear to him, that any thing in the Letter in question could be said to be an attack on, or an infringement of them. If the hon. gent. had made any motion, he should have been able to have drawn a conclusion on what he meant. All he could now collect was, that there was something contained in the Letter, which seemed to protest against the justice of the proceedings of the house upon this head, on the ground that the evidence examined before it was not under those particular sanctions which the law required in other cases. So far from this being the fact, all he understood by the letter was no more than this, that h. r. h. supposing himself to be attacked in such a manner as to make it necessary to go into an inquiry, in order that the whole should be elicited in the most open mode, and finding that the evidence was closed, intended to lay before the house an allegation of his innocence; and if the house should, after that allegation, be inclined to doubt his innocence, he states, that he hoped the house would not enter upon any proceeding which might have the effect of condemning him before he could have a trial, in which he would have the advantage of evidence under all the sanction and solemnity of the law. He was certain that h. r. h. had not the smallest intention to attack the privileges of the house; and how the Letter could be conceived an attack on them, he could not conceive. That it was not wholly unprecedented, he contended was apparent from what the Speaker had stated on the preceding night. If any farther information could be obtained by means of a Committee searching for precedents, he should be extremely glad of it. The hon. gent. wanted to know whether he or any one of his right hon. friends, intended to move any thing on the subject. For his own part, he had no such intention, nor had he heard or understood that any one else had. The Letter was now become a document on the table, and like any other paper or
1055The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1056 said that he found, on an application to the printer of the Minutes, that he would not be able to have those which related to the Inquiry into the Conduct of the Commander in Chief, ready to deliver to the members of the house so soon as Monday next; nor could he even answer for Tuesday or Wednesday. He thought, therefore, it would be necessary to enlarge the time beyond that which had been fixed for bringing up the report; and as the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread) was in possession of Monday se'nnight, he was at a loss how to fix so early a day as he could wish, unless the hon. gent. would agree to postpone his motion to a future day. The hon. gent. had already so frequently postponed it, that he hardly knew how to ask him again to do it; but if he could with convenience, he should be obliged to him.1056The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not conceive he had any thing to do with the business, in the way the right hon. gent. had mentioned. He conceived it to be in the hands of the hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle) who brought forward the accusation, and he did not think it would be proper for him to interfere in it, as he naturally supposed the hon. gent., whom he did not then see in his place, would bring forward some proceeding or other on it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not rise to object to any thing which had been said by the last speaker, but thought he had reason to complain of the right hon. gent. below him (Mr. Tierney,) as his question seemed to insinuate that his hon. friend had abandoned the business, and wished the right hon. gent. opposite to him to take it up. His hon. friend had, however, expressed his readiness to go on with the matter even on the day that had been first appointed, though he (lord F.) thought it too early a one. The right hon. gent. might, therefore, rest satisfied that on Wednesday se'nnight the matter would be taken up by his hon. friend, who had left the house, not supposing any thing would be said on the subject that night.Lord Folkestone
 spoke in favour of the landing of the troops in Portugal.Major Allen
1117 said that the house and the country had surely a right to call for some information upon what ground an enterprise like this had been undertaken; an enterprise as distressing, if not as disgraceful, as this country was ever Engaged in. He was at a loss to know what prevented our armies from pursuing their object. Three months ago papers had been moved for of the Instructions given to our generals; but no such papers had appeared. He therefore contended that we had a right to be informed with what view our
1117Mr. Bathurst
 in explanation, said that the reason why the papers moved for, and alluded to by the right hon. gent. were not produced, was owing to their being extremely voluminous.Lord Castlereagh,
 said it was universally admitted, that this army was the finest ever sent from this country, and whether they had failed in their object through the misguidance of their generals, or the mismanagement of ministers, alike demanded that the people of this country should have the best information upon the subject. He should therefore vole for the original motion.Earl Percy
1118 rose to put a question to the right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning), which he hoped the house would not find him disinclined to answer; he understood him to say, when adverting to the decision taken by sir John Moore, to advance from Salamanca towards Saldanha, in search of marshal Souk's corps, that he had resolved on this forward movement, having received a letter from Mr. Frere, the British minister, informing him of the enthusiasm which had burst forth at Madrid; it was known that the gallant officer had, previous to the receipt of this information, ordered a retreat. Should it appear that this after determination to advance had been the result of his own reflections, he would be the last man in the house, or in the country, to dispute the wisdom of this decision, from a conviction that it had been formed on the soundest political and military considerations; but it occurred to him as very possible, that this letter of the British minister did not contain simply a communication of the fact, the popular indignation of the moment on the part of the inhabitants of Madrid against the French, and their resolution to defend their capital, but that it might have been written in the spirit of violent remonstrance against the general's known determination to retreat, Cautioning him in the strongest language as to the probable disastrous result to the allies from this resolution, and reminding him that the army he commanded had been sent to assist Spain, to which nation and his own, he would be held responsible, did he decline advancing; Mr. Hutchinson knew well that Mr. Frere or any other man would not have dared to have written to sir John Moore an insulting letter; but should this in question turn out
1118The Hon. Christopher Hely Hutchinson
 stated that the decision was made not in consequence of a letter to Mr. Frere, but in consequence of an intercepted letter to Soult, directing particular movements.Mr. Canning
1119 in reply, said, he was at a loss to understand what the right hon. gentlemen opposite could mean by the manner in which they had replied to his motion. The motion he had submitted was, That an Inquiry-should be gone into. His motion had nothing to do with the precise mode in which that inquiry should be pursued. The noble carl who had just spoken, appeared to have seen it in its trun light A noble lord had said that the government of Spain considered its salvation to depend upon the appearance of an English army in Spain, and yet he gave no reason for the extraordinary delay in sending that army; or when it did arrive at Corunna, that that government had given no orders for its landing! Was this true? was it possible? If so, such a government was a curse! Could the right hon. gent. be serious, could he be rightly informed, or was this a story picked up by chance? To keep an army waiting 10 or 15 days, what could be expected but defeat and disgrace? The right hon. gent. had thought proper to pass over his speech in silence, he did not reply to
1119Mr. Ponsonby,
 said, he did not exactly recollect it, and might therefore, by giving a wrong name, do more harm than good.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
107510741073107210711070106910681067106610651064106310621061106010591058 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—I rise, Mr. Speaker, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of moving an inquiry upon a subject, as important to the honour, the fame, and the interest of England, as any that has ever been agitated in this house. If I had given no notice whatever of the discussion, the considerations I have mentioned must serve peculiarly and immediately to call your attention to the question. When the Spanish insurrection, as it has been called, I mean the resistance of the Spanish nation to the attempts of France to subjugate that people, was known in this country, the minds of all men were engaged in contemplating its character, and a prospect seemed to present itself, that means might arise out of it calculated to serve Spain, to serve this country, and to serve the world, by making a stand against the immensely growing power of France. Such an event naturally attracted the consideration, and excited the interest of all classes of the community. It called, in a most particular manner, for the attention and inquiry of those by whom our government was administered, and never perhaps did any government, upon any occasion, meet with a more general and unfeigned desire on the part of the people to second that course which it might be found expedient to pursue in aid of the Spanish cause. All power and all principle seemed devoted to that object. The feelings of the public ran before the wishes of the minister. He had only to command, and
107510741073107210711070106910681067106610651064106310621061106010591058Mr. Ponsonby
disgraces10841083108210811080107910781077prima facieprima facieprima facie1076 hoped, that the house would indulge him, while he should endeavour shortly to detail to the house the reasons by which he was induced to negative the motion of the right hon. gent. He must, however, in justice to himself, declare, that he would be the last person in the house to persuade parliament not to enter into any proper or necessary inquiry for which just and reasonable grounds had been stated. Ignorance was rather a humiliating reason for any man to assign for such an inquiry; and if the right hon. mover had waited with a little patience, find accepted the proposal which he had made early in the session for laying proper documents before the house, perhaps he would have had some more substantial foundation whereupon to ground his motion. The right hon. gent. could not then well plead, that he felt it necessary to appeal to that house, on account of any reluctance on the part of his majesty's ministers to give him every information in their power. He could assert on his own behalf and on that of his colleagues, that they would not have made any objection to the production of all such information, as, consistently with their duty and a regard to the public interests, could be laid before the house, and however that information might afterwards be applied, it would afford a much better ground for going into the inquiry in a committee than the claim which had been made by the right hon. gent. on the bare shewing of his own ignorance. They had had already sufficient proof how far committees of the whole house went to impede the general business of the public, and it was not, therefore, upon such light grounds that the house ought to be induced to go into a committee of that description. The only reasons, that had been alledged for the Inquiry were reducible to the ignorance of the right hon. mover; and he did not think that that was, or had ever been pretended to be, a proper parliamentary ground for inquiry. But no doubt the right hon. gent. supposed he had his forces well marshalled, and in
disgraces10841083108210811080107910781077prima facieprima facieprima facie1076Lord Castlereagh
1057 then said, it would be recollected by the house, that the hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Wardle) when he brought forward his Charges, had mentioned an Office in the City kept for the Sale of Places under Government, in which the names of the Lord Chancellor and the Duke of Portland had been used. He had then said he would be glad to give every assistance to the hon. gent., in order to discover if any such unjust practices were really in existence. Since that time, a gentleman had observed an advertisement for the sale of a place under government,
1057The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1094 did not at all mean to reply to the speeches made by the hon. gentlemen opposite, but wished to allude to one or two particular points. The right hon. gent. had said, that the march of the British troops from Portugal to Spain was by the direction of his majesty's government. It was pretty well known to all the officers who had been with that army, that that was not the case, and that that course had been concerted between the Supreme Junta of Spain and sir John Moore. The hon. gent. had also said, that the commissariat was badly constituted, and the troops ill supplied. He declared, that as long as he had been with gen. Hope, which was during a march of near 1,000 miles, nothing could be more complete than the supplies afforded. Much had been said of the danger to which both corps were exposed by that under sir John Moore having marched by land to Spain from Portugal, whilst sir David Baird's corps was landed at Corunna; but the junction of sir John Moore and sir David Baird was not at first critical, though it afterwards became so in consequence of the defeat of Castanos. As to the loss sustained by the British army, he was still of the same opinion, as when he stated its amount to the house, and he was convinced that his statements
1094General Stewart
"Nos facimus Fortuna Deam, cœioque locaraus.—"Te110511041103110211011100109910981097 expressed his satisfaction that he had not spoken when he first offered himself to the attention of the house, but that he had given way to the three successive members who had favoured the house with their sentiments, and to whom he felt himself under considerable obligation. To the gallant general near him, because he was now able to avail himself of that gallant officer's authority, in support of some very important facts—to his hon. friend who followed, for the ability with which he had refuted the arguments of the right hon. gent. opposite—an ability, the display of which had afforded him the highest pleasure, and from which the presence of his hon. friend alone prevented him from declaring how much he still expected. To the noble lord he was also under obligation; because, standing as the noble lord did, in so high a station in the country, and possessing, as he presumed he did, the hopes of the opposite side of the house, he was glad to find that the sum of what could be said on such an occasion, by such an individual, was so small. Amongst all the reasons,' which had been urged for inquiry, misrepresentation had held the foremost place in the speeches of the right hon. gentlemen opposite. They had endeavoured, by a series of the grossest misrepresentations that he had ever witnessed, to pervert fact, and to mislead the judgment of the house. The right hon. gent. by whom the debate was commenced, had taken a general and comprehensive view of the subject, and his misrepresentations were as general as comprehensive. The right hon. gent. who followed him, had contented himself with a more particular field, but that field he had filled in detail with misrepresentations, if possible, still more flagrant: the former had dealt in misrepresentation with a view to his argument; but the latter had presented all his facts in a more discoloured and distorted shape, than in the course of his experience he had ever known, and this, too, whilst he gave to himself the
"Nos facimus Fortuna Deam, cœioque locaraus.—"Te110511041103110211011100109910981097Mr. Secretary Cunning
1106 acknowledged it was not a
1106Mr. Ponsonby
 observed that the cause, however to be lamented, was no reason for interruption of the debate, as it should be recollected by the house that there was no exhibition this night at the Theatre, and therefore there was no ground for apprehension for the safety of any of their friends or relatives.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 seconded the motion.Mr. Herbert
 thought the questions of such extraordinary importance as to require the particular attention of the house, being, in his opinion, a direct attack on its privileges. He had not understood his hon. friend to object to the Letter, in as far as it contained an allegation of innocence, but in going beyond that allegation. It was subject to the obvious meaning or opinion, that no declaration could be come to by that house on the evidence laid before it, but such as would carry it out of the province of the house; and when the Word "condemned" was considered, it was to be inferred that the house ought not to determine on the evidence laid before it, which was the only evidence that it could receive. He therefore thought, with his hon. friend, that the house had, by the vote of last night, permitted a Letter to be put on the table which was an attack on their privileges.Lord H. Petty
 disclaimed any intention of even a wish to take the business out of the hands of the hon. gent. who brought forward the accusation, and had only asked the question to satisfy himself, whether on that night any proceeding was to take place on bringing up the report.Mr. Tierney
 wished to know, if, when the Report was brought up on Wednesday se'nnight, the right hon. gent. intended to come forward with any specific proceedings on it.Mr. Tierney
109310921091prima facie1090prima facieprima facie108910881087viva voce1086prima facieprima facieprima facie1085prima facie observed, that there never was a speech which called so much for animadversion as that which the noble lord had just closed. The noble lord said that there was no 109310921091prima facie1090prima facieprima facie108910881087viva voce1086prima facieprima facieprima facie1085prima facieMr. Tierney
 thought the right hon. gent. should mention the banker's name.Mr. Alderman Combe
1053 thought, if the petition was referred to a Committee up stairs, some
1053Mr. Curwen
 declared he did not envy the right hon. gent. his feelings on the occasion, particularly when he reflected, that half London might be burned down while they were debating. He therefore moved the Question of adjournment.General Mathew
1095 rose to express his dissent from the hon. gent.'s motion, as also from many of the sentiments uttered by the right hon. gent. who had spoken last but one; and he particularly blamed that part of his speech, where he made use of expressions calculated to inflame the army, a flame which the right hon. gent. himself had so justly anticipated. He, therefore requested the attention of the house only for two moments, for which time only he would be disposed to divert the storm of eloquence which the right hon. gent. justly apprehended. [Mr. Secretary Canning had twice offered himself to the house.]—He could assure the house, that if he thought inquiry were necessary, he should not disapprove of it, and that he had no wish whatever to withhold from the public any information on a subject, in which they were so strongly interested. He was glad to find, that whatever difference existed as to the mode in which Spain had been assisted by this country, there was no variety of opinion as to the propriety of the assistance itself and he could not but regret that the hon. gentlemen opposite had not paid their tribute of applause to the promptitude with which that assistance had been afforded. The accusation of failure made by the hon. gentlemen opposite, came with a very bad grace from individuals whose administration was a succession of failures. That administration had attempted to bring about a peace, and the attempt had ended in a more rancorous war; they had carried on war in a manner even worse than they had conducted their negotiation. The hon. gent. then contended that by the occurrences in Spain we had gained no trifling advantages; we had given to our army experience, we had shewn to the eyes of Europe, and to the world, that we were as formidable by land as by sea; we had taught the enemy to respect our military force, and to acknowledge that we possessed commanders who could vie with the titled minions of Buonaparté. The hon. gent. had said that we had done nothing. Was it nothing to gain the Spaniards that time which their situation de-
1095Mr. Colborne
 observed that, whatever might be the extent of the individual calamity, he did not consider it of a nature worthy to interrupt their proceedings on so great a national question.Mr. Sheridan
1054 said, he rose for the purpose of drawing the attention of the house to an act which in his opinion more deeply affected their privileges than any thing that had ever occurred since he had the honour of a seal in it. The act he alluded to, was the Letter written by his royal highness the Duke of York, addressed to that house, and conveyed to it through the medium of the Speaker. The Speaker had certainly done his duty, as he always did with the greatest propriety and correctness on every occasion, by informing the house of the method usually pursued in cases of letters addressed to the house being communicated through him, and the result was that the paper was ordered to lie on the table. If he (Mr. W.) did not then object to it, a few minutes reflection enabled him to ascertain to his own satisfaction, that the true mode of proceeding would have been to move that the debate be adjourned. It appeared to him that this Letter struck at the privileges of the house, by stating, that it had examined evidence which it ought not to have done. His royal highness was as competent to have written to the house in the first instance, that it ought not to institute and carry on any inquiry on such evidence as would be produced before it. If it was the intention of any one of those who had advised his royal highness to write this Letter, hereafter to make any motion on the subject, the house would then be enabled to form a judgment what line of conduct ought to be adopted
1054Mr. Whitbread
 said, that averse as he was to any strong mark of discountenance to petitions coming from any class of subjects before that house, yet he felt it his duty, on the present occasion, out of lenity to the petitioners themselves, to give the earliest opposition to a petition, praying that which it was scarcely possible for that house in its wisdom to grant, because it would be the most ruinous principle which could be adopted in any country, namely, that of fixing by law, a minimum or a maximum to the price of labour, food, or any thing else, which in their very nature, must always fluctuate in different places according to local and temporary circumstances. Something of the kind was attempted during the French revolution under Robespierre, for settling a maximum on the price of provisions, and which was productive of the most dreadful consequences to the French nation. Were it adopted in the present case, it would have the effect of throwing almost perpetually out of employment immense numbers of the petitioners themselves, and aggravating, in an incalculable degree, the distresses of which they complained. He had taken much pains to inform himself on the subject of this petition, and the more he considered it, the more ruinous to the petitioners he saw would be a compliance with their request. Seeing, therefore the utter impolicy of such a compliance, he thought the sooner they were taught to feel there were no hopes to be entertained that parliament would accede to their object, the greater would be the lenity shewn to them, and the more speedily would they be saved the further loss of time and expence, as well as restraint from tumult and disturbance. He should therefore move that the petition be dismissed.Mr. Davies Giddy
 also opposed the adjournment.Mr. W. Smith
 stated, that if their adjourning would have the effect of putting out the blaze, it would be good to do so. But what an exhibition would it hold out to the world to say, that on an alarm of fire, they had adjourned a debate of such importance. Considering, therefore, it would answer no good purpose, he should oppose the adjournment.Mr. Wilberforce
1116111511141113majorgue videtur, nec mortale sonuns111211111110110911081107And bad the rest keep fighting."On the first of June,"He fled full soon was determined to confine what he had to say to the objects of the inquiry, and in that case should pass by four-fifths of the speech of the right hon. gent. However able the speech of that right hon. gent. it had been very little to the purpose. It was an odd moment for the right hon. gent. to express his hopes, and an odd quarter from which such hopes proceeded, when our army had been withdrawn from Spain, when we had left the Spaniards to fight their own battles. This had something so ludicrous in it, that he wondered it did not remind the right hon. gent. of the very pleasant lines,
1116111511141113majorgue videtur, nec mortale sonuns111211111110110911081107And bad the rest keep fighting."On the first of June,"He fled full soonMr. Windham
1096 observed, that the hon. gent. who' had just sat down, had given rather a singular reason for having approved of the campaign in Spain, namely, that it would facilitate the recruiting of the army. The noble lord opposite (Castlereagh) would, he believed, not be disposed to thank the hon. gent. for the compliment to his administration of the army contained in that observation. It was the opinion of the hon. gent. that the inquiry moved for would only tend to paralise the efforts of the country. It was his firm conviction, on the contrary, that the country was desirous, and parliament was bound to make inquiry into the recent failures in Spain: and for his own part he should not hesitate to declare, that whether his friends were in power or out of power, he should at all times be a strenuous advocate for the necessity of vigilant inquiry into the conduct of public affairs. He would have been glad, if such an inquiry had taken place in former wars. Had the Expeditions to Ferrol and the Redder been inquired into, they should not now have to regret the failures to which the motion referred. Instead, therefore, of the inquiry proposed paralising the efforts of the country, it would give to the parliament the confidence of the public. The object of the expedition had been the establishment of the Spanish Monarchy, and to drive the French army out of that country. Now, in spite of all the vigour and activity of the noble lord, instead of Buonaparté having been driven back to his own territory, and the whole of the Peninsula re-
1096Lord Milton
lll.l.1120 said that as upon that day week the
lll.l.1120The Secretary at War
 apprehended, that that would be productive of inconvenience; but that however the subject would be taken into due consideration.The Secretary at War
 said, that with respect to the public department, the increase was merely nominal, the fees having been allotted to the expenditure of the War Office. There had been an addition of one or two clerks, and the salaries of the junior clerks were to go on progressively, in a certain proportion. With respect to the Foreign Corps, much of its expences were hitherto charged under the head of Contingencies, but now the same expences were stated under distinct Estimates, so that the increase here was nominal. In the same way other items, which had been under the head of the Extraordinaries, were now reduced to Estimate.The Secretary at War
 said, that the points alluded to by the hon. gent. were already under consideration, and would be duly attended to.The Secretary at War
 said, that the Royal Malta regiment was said, on one occasion, to have thrown down its arms. It was important that this should be contradicted, if not true; and if it was true, the expence ought to constitute no part of the recruiting fund of this country.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 had no objection to put off the Estimates for a certain time, in order to give gentlemen time to read the Reports; he must, however, deny that these Estimates were altogether formed from those Reports. The various items of the Navy Estimates had been before the house a long time, and gentlemen could see they were only the common and ordinary charges.Mr. Ward
l.l. said that of the 1,500,000l.l.Mr. Ward
 repeated, that considerable improvements had already taken place in the appointment of Chaplains, and still further improvements were intended. As to the conduct of the Malta Regiment, he had not information enough on the subject to enable him at present to give an opinion.The Secretary at War
 expressed his conviction that if the bill were passed in its present shape, the most fatal consequences might ensue. He wished that the two countries might go hand in hand; and mutually assist one another. The north of England stood very much in need of the produce of Ireland. Owing to the depression of manufactures and trade, the people there were not half fed. The oats of Ireland would satisfy them. They had hitherto conducted themselves with great temper and patience; but if they understood that a part of that which might, be appropriated to their support was allowed to be consumed, not in the preservation but the destruction of man, they might probably not remain so well satisfied.Sir R. Peele
1134 complained, that the right hon. Bart. (sir J. Newport), had misrepresented him, when he stated that he had said the people of Ireland naturally disobeyed the law. All that he had observed on that subject was, that the lower orders from their ignorance of the law, held it in utter contempt, and were guilty of disobedience to it. The right Son. bart. had himself declared that the higher orders were at least as apt to encourage the infraction of the law as the lower orders to commit it. If therefore, he could for a moment suppose (which he did not] that such was the right hon. baronet's intention, he might infer that he meant to extend the accusation of a proneness to disobedience, to a much greater sphere. The right hon. bart. had said, that he (Mr. E.) induced the Committee of Supply that evening to vote increased sums to public Charter Schools, on the ground of the increased price of provisions. It was on the ground of the increased price of other articles besides provisions: of clothes, &c. If the present bill were to hinder corn coming from Ireland to England, he would not urge it. But it was only to prevent the corn from getting into the hands of the private distillers, and thus ultimately from injuring the morals of the country. Not one-third of the illicit stills in Ireland had been seized; and yet it was computed that by that one-third, no less than 800,000 gallons of whiskey had been made in a month. The quantity remaining on hand of the foreign spirits which had been imported into Ireland since last July sufficiently evinced the enormous supply from the private stills. Adverting to a statement made by an hon. gent. that oats could not be obtained in Cumberland from Wexford under 37s. a quarter; he expressed his surprize at this circumstance, as he held in his hand an official return from Newry, (directly opposite to the shores of Cumberland), dated Feb. 11, in which the price of oats was stated to be 25s. and 2d. British per quarter. In other places the price was somewhat less. An hon. gent. behind him (Mr. Fuller) had talked of catching and taming the Irish.
1134Mr. Foster
 stated, that to his certain knowledge conditional orders had beer, sent to this country from Ireland, to transmit thither very large quantities of grain, provided the prohibition of this distillation should not be extended to that country.Mr. Browne
 represented the improbability of such a circumstance, if the hon. gent. meant that any but seed corn had been so ordered. For the price of grain being dearer in G. Britain than in Ireland, it was extravagant to suppose that it could be intended to buy in the dear market for the purpose of selling in the cheap.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 after stating that this was merely a temporary measure, which he trusted would lead to the culture and preservation of the article in sufficient quantity for the uses of this country, proposed that a bounty of 5s. per bushel should be allowed on the first 50,000 bushels of Foreign Flax Seed, imported into Ireland from the 8th of March to the 8th of April, 1809.Mr. Foster,
1127 desired the Serjeant might be called, who immediately appeared at the bar. The Speaker asked him if he had any thing to communicate to the house relative to Mr. John Annesley Shee?1127The Speaker
1122 did not see how the
1122lord A. Hamilton
 thought, that if this Fourth Report, which had been laid upon the table that day, contained the reasons which induced the lords of the admiralty to present those Estimates, the house should have time to examine that Report, and judge of those reasons.Lord H. Petty
113211311130 said, that the bill, in its present shape, considering the object at which it professed to aim, was indeed of a most extraordinary character: before he stated his opinion concerning it, he begged to say one word of the measure of last year, which did not originate in the distress of the West India commerce, although it would have been folly and affectation not to perceive that the relief of that trade might be in part effected by the temporary measure which was then, upon other and independent grounds, adopted. He owed it to the house to say, as others had done, that the result to the colonial trade had been greatly and critically beneficial. His hon. friends who had given their opposition to that measure upon principles good and sound, but admitting of exception (and the house and the country had judged it right to interpose such exception) would, he was persuaded, hear this acknowledgment with pleasure. Indeed, their objections lay against the precedent chiefly, and against the continuance of the restriction, under present circumstances, they appeared to have little to urge.—Of the bill now before the house, he wished to speak with parliamentary freedom; it was a compound of materials so contrived as to neutralise each other, a series of positive and negative quantities, plus and minus, minus and plus, that, when you come to count them altogether, amounted to just nothing. It professed to aim at the œconomy of grain, and it was plain enough that the empire in general stood in need of such œconomy; but this measure would directly stimulate an extra consumption of grain in one part, and to that part grain might be sent from every other part of the empire; we dread the evil, and yet appoint for it a legitimate existence; in Great Britain we must not manufacture spirits from grain, but we know they will be corrected there, and we permit them to be made in Ireland, where we are told that illegal traffic reigns without controul. If we could, by art and ingenuity, produce from sugar a spirit which might prove popular in Ireland, thither we cannot send it; but grain we may, and grain, even at excessive prices, they will take from us, because the best grain is most profitable in distillation. Of all the descriptions of grain, it is of oats that we most apprehend a scarcity. Oats
113211311130Mr. Hibbert
 wished to know, whether it was the intention of government to relieve the parishes from the unjustifiable burdens imposed upon them by the system of volunteering into the Local Militia? He wished also to know, whether any allowance would be made to the smaller corps of Volunteers, as otherwise he feared, that this valuable force would be considerably diminished in the course of the present year. He wished also to put the June and August corps on a similar footing with other corps.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 (Chairman of the East India Committee to enquire into the Sale of Places, &c. in the Company's service) rose in his place and addressed the Chair.Mr. Bankes
 then moved, That it appeared to the house the said John Annesley Slice had absconded to avoid being examined: which being agreed to, he moved that an Address be presented to his majesty, in the usual way, praying him to issue his Proclamation with such rewards as to his majesty should seem meet, for apprehending and taking the said John Annesley Shee, alias Calvert, which was ordered.Mr. Bankes
l. said, that there were 40,000l.Mr. H. Martin
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1121l.l.l.l.l. said, that when the excess of the Estimates for the current year over those of the past amounted to 1,500,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1121l.l.l.l.l.Mr. H. Martin
 observed, that an attempt had been made to convey intelligence by telegraph through Galway and Athlone to Dublin, instead of the former communication by the circuitous line of the coast; and though this might be more expensive at first, it would ultimately be cheaper.Sir A. Wellesley
 declared himself to be of opinion that the people of England would not get a grain of corn less out of Ireland, if the bill should stand as it then was, than if the prohibition were extended to the latter country. Grain in Ireland was much more abundant than in the last year. The price of provisions would show this, for though comparatively high in the market of Dublin, it was much lower in Ireland in general. If he thought that the measure would bear hard upon G. Britain, he would unquestionably vote against it; but being satisfied of the contrary, it should have his cordial support.Sir A. Wellesley
 described the scarcity of oats in the North of England, and particularly in Cumberland, to be very great. They were not able to get them from Wexford under 37s. per quarter. He was desirous that the prohibition should be extended to Ireland, and he was satisfied that it would not at all injure the agriculture or interests of that country. For the purpose of preventing the illicit distillation, a reduction might be made in the duties on the spirits distilled from sugar; and in the present flourishing state of the revenue, such a sacrifice might be well made in preference to bearing hard upon the people. He recommended that if the present bill should be passed, its duration should be limited to two months, in order to give time for an ample investigation of the expediency of a more permanent measure.Mr. Curwen
 was ashamed of ministers, for the way in which they had treated this question. Of all weak questions which had been agitated in this house, the present, he thought, was the weakest. If they could not check illicit distillery in Ireland, were they therefore to allow it to go on at full swing? On the same principle should they allow smuggling to take its course in this country. He was really ashamed of ministers. This seemed to be a question as to which of the two Chancellors of the Exchequer wore the breeches. They were wrong in letting out such private quarrels, which would be better concealed. He did not wish to say any ill of the Irish, but he believed they only wanted catching and taming. By allowing them to carry on illegal distillery, we only made them ten times worse. He advised the Chancellor of the Exchequer of England not to yield too much to the Irish Chancellor; else he would find him like an amiable female they had seen in that house, Mrs. Clarke; the more was conceded to him, he would look for so much the more.Mr. Fuller
 wished to know, whether it was intended to abolish the private fees?General Fitzpatrick
l.l.l. confirmed this statement, and said, that it was in most instances an increase of Estimate, and not an increase of Expence. There was an addition of 11,000l.l.l.Mr. Long
 thought it strange that Reports, stated to be made in the year 1807, should not be laid on the table of that house till 1809.Mr. Whitbread
1125 thought the hon. gent. ought to have presented the Reports of the naval commissioners one by one as they came out, and not have waited till they were collected in large folio volumes,
1125Mr. Whitbread
1124 said, there was a subject which he had long wished for an opportunity to allude to, and which he did not yet wish to make any regular motion about. As he considered it connected with our military means, he should take the present opportunity of stating it. The island of Sicily had long been occupied by our troops, and was dependent upon them for its defence. Now, though he was averse, generally, to the principle of interfering in the affairs of another government, yet, when we took upon us to defend Sicily against all attacks, we should be justified in seeing that the government of that country took proper measures for their own defence. The accounts of all travellers for the last century coincided in stating, that the Sicilians were by no means attached to the Neapolitan government, which was most intolerably oppressive. He had some conversation with sir John Moore before he went to that island, and it was the opinion of that gallant officer, that the island was in some danger on that account. Another gallant officer (sir John Stuart), who was a distant relation of his, had expressed to him the same idea. Now, he thought we could do our business more efficaciously, with a smaller body of men, if we would but suggest to the government of Sicily the necessity of adopting such measures as would secure the affections of the inhabitants. Having thrown out this idea, for the consideration of his majesty's ministers, he did
1124Mr. W. Smith
l.1126 said, that as to the appointments of the persons who were to be the naval commissioners, lord Mulgrave had made it from a list which had been returned, to him by the naval lords, of those captains that were most fit to be commissioners in the navy, and that from that list the appointment was offered to each according to his seniority. As to the crew of the Saturn, the real story was this: That ship had been a long time in India, and on her return to this country, the men got leave of absence from their captain. It was a regulation introduced by the present admiralty, that when a ship returned from having been long abroad on a foreign station, the men were to receive immediately a certain proportion of their pay, and to have leave (if their captain permitted them) to go and see their friends. Now, the Saturn happened not to fall directly within the order, for receiving a certain proportion of pay. The men, however, got leave of absence, and finding themselves in London without Money, they waited at the admiralty, and respectfully asked for a part of their pay. They were ordered to return, and report themselves to their captain, which they immediately did, and by the orders of the admiralty, they received that proportion of their pay, and got farther leave of absence to see their friends. As to the Victualling hoard, the abuses in that department had
l.1126Mr. Wellesley Pole
 said that it was the general custom, when a Report was made, to send it to the board to which it related, in order to regulate its conduct. They were afterwards got back from those boards to be copied, and as those Reports were many and voluminous, the copying of them necessarily took up a great deal of time. He was free to admit, that he had not conceived that it would be material to have the Report sooner on the table. The Fourth Report had been acted on for some time, had been printed by the navy board, and was pretty generally circulated. He confessed he had waited till all the Reports were copied, instead of laying them on the table one by one.Mr. Wellesley Pole
1123 expressed surprize at the system which still prevailed about Army Chaplains. As for the description of persons who were chaplains about ten years ago, he had an instinctive feeling, which made him wish to get rid of them. He wished, however, that our army should have the benefit of religion free from the abuses of the former institution. If sol-
1123Mr. Wilberforce
 thought, that the Reports ought to have been laid on the table the first day of the session, but he did not think there should be any longer delay in bringing forward the Navy Estimates than till next Friday.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that he certainly did not disapprove of that part of the increase of the expenditure, which proceeded from giving an augmentation to the salaries of the Clerks in the Admiralty. He thought, however, that the board of admiralty had been guilty of great extravagance, and that there must be considerable irregularities in paving the different ships. The crew of the Saturn, a 64, had been seen parading about the streets of the metropolis, and had gone down in a body to the admiralty to demand their pay. He disapproved of the appointment of the additional Commissioners of the Navy, and feared that those appointments were obtained through private influence, and that it was not for the good of the service.Sir C. Pole
 thought that the Navy Estimates should be delayed until the house had time to consider the Reports of the Naval Commissioners, upon which those Estimates were founded. The Fourth Report was, as he had understood, only laid upon the table of the house that day.Sir C. Pole
1133 declared that the present
1133Mr. Parnell
 in allusion to what had fallen from Mr. Foster on a former night, declared his conviction, that the Irish people, far from burning with a disposition to resist the laws, were well disposed to respect them, if government would apply themselves to the correction of what was improper in the administration of those laws. If the right hon. gentlemen were desirous to confer a benefit on Ireland, he assured them they would do infinitely more to tranquillize the people by comprehending Ireland under this act than by all the penal laws on their Statute book. The right hon. gent. (Mr. Foster) had on this occasion furnished him with argument against himself. He had proposed considerable augmentations to the different Charities in Ireland, on account of the en-creased rate of provisions in 1809 more than in 1808. And with the same breath he proceeded to allow the distillery from corn in Ireland, as if corn in that country instead of rising had fallen in price during the latter year. He concluded by moving that the Report be recommitted for the purpose of introducing a clause, extending the prohibition to Ireland.Sir J. Newport,
1129d.l. could not perceive why the prohibition should not be as extensive as it was last year. The prices of corn were as high, the ports of the continent were closely shut. Common sense and the justice of the case demanded that the prohibition should be extended to Ireland. By the act of Union it was declared, that a reciprocity of interests should exist between the two countries; not that the landed interest of the one country should be upheld at the expence of the other. Wheat was five guineas a quarter; barley, 21129d.l.Sir T. Turton
 bore evidence to the accuracy of Mr. Long's statement,Earl Temple
114711461145114411431142 rose pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the Bankrupt Laws. In bringing this subject before the house, he rested not merely upon the notice which he had given; but also upon what he had stated to the house three years ago. He then said, that ail he proposed to do was, to render the system less defective, and not to free it from all objection. He repeated the same thing now: some indeed had been so struck with the many glaring defects of the system that they thought it ought to be abolished, and a new one substituted in its place. But he confessed that he had not sufficient confidence in himself to undertake such an Herculean labour, and all he could do was, to attempt to reform some of the most obvious defects of the system.—The first defect to which he would call the attention of the house was this; that a trader, after giving up all he possessed in the world to his creditors, was still liable for many debts, the proof of which could not be received under the commission. This was the case, in direct opposition to the principles of these laws, which was, that a trader having given up all his effects, ought to be free from all claims contracted before the period of that bankruptcy. The most numerous class of debts of this kind consisted of those for which some one else was liable as security. These surety debts did not legally arise till after the commission. The consequence was, they could not be proved under the commission, and the consequence of that again was, that the bankrupt was still liable. The remedy which he meant to propose for this was, that the sureties
114711461145114411431142Sir Samuel Romilly
 proposed that the chairman should move the house for leave to bring in a Bill for establishing a new Police for Plymouth Dock, for the purpose of preventing depredations upon the King's Stores. The learned gent. observed, that the king's shipping lying in the river Tamar, which divided the counties of Devon and Cornwall, facilities of escape to offenders were by that circumstance afforded, against which it was highly necessary to provide, in consequence of the number of the offenders, and the extent of the depredation. With this view, the Bill proposed the constitution of a local police or board of magistrates, who should be in constant attendance, and who, by having a certain proportion of the two counties subject to their authority, might be enabled to guard against the evil complained of.The Attorney-General
 assured the hon. gent. and the committee, that he would be the last man to interfere with the privileges, or even, if he might add, the prejudices of the magistracy, to whom he felt the country owed so much, and particularly from the circumstance of their services being gratuitous; but the establishment of a local Police was in this instance essentially necessary, and when he stated that the suggestion of that necessity proceeded from an honourable gent. on the other side of the house, the member for Plymouth, (Mr. Tyrwhitt) he supposed the suspicion of any desire to extend government patronage by this proposition would be obviated.The Attorney-General
11571156 said, he had understood, and he believed it had been generally understood by the house, that the discussion upon the conduct of general Clavering, in giving his evidence, would be subsequent to the determination of the house on the Charges now pending before the house. He certainly had thought that the general opinion was, that it was desirable that any question arising upon the conduct of any witness that would in itself lead the house into, as it were, a premature determination upon the evidence, had better be postponed till after the decision of the house upon the great question that had so long occupied its attention; and what served to bear him out in that conclusion was, the line of conduct which the house had thought proper to adopt with respect to another witness of the name of Donovan; in that case the house, whatever might have been its opinion of that person's testimony, had thought it right to forbear any decision upon it till after they had decided on the more important charge before them, and he could not help wishing that the hon. gent. would pursue the course that that instance might naturally suggest to him, and concur with him in the propriety of postponing that discussion till they had come to a decision upon the great question itself. He could not approve of taking one witness out of the mass; it would be better to wait until they could examine into all, or as many as might call for the investigation of the house. In saying thus much, he would not be understood as wishing the house to decide upon comparative merit; far from it. No man in the house was more prepared to say than he was, that it would be no ground for arguing, that because they did not proceed against one witness they ought not to proceed against another. He would not say, that because they did not commit one evidence for prevarication they ought not to commit another; so far from it, that he certainly
11571156The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said that he had not the slightest intention of moving the adjournment, as that would look like taking it out of the hands of the hon. gent. with whom he wished to leave it. He would rather the hon. gent. himself would move the adjournment. [Here Mr. Wynn said across the table, Move! move!"] The right hon. gent. then moved, That the debate be adjourned till that day se'nnight.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said that the reason why he wished the right hon. gent. rather to move the adjournment than himself was, that he did not feel the weight of the objections made by the right hon. gent. to the propriety of entering into the discussion on the motion at that time. He was not, however, disposed to resist the general wishes of the house. In bringing it before them he had discharged the duty to which he had pledged himself, and they would now do theirs.—The debate was then adjourned to the 14th instant.Mr. C. W. Wynn
11531152115111501149 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the house to the conduct of brigadier general Clavering. But before he did so, he thought it necessary to state the reasons which induced his acquiescence in the delay that had already occurred upon this business. At the same time he must observe, that although he acquiesced in the delay, the impression upon his mind of gen. Clavering's prevarication, was so strong, upon the last night of his examination, that he thought the Committee ought not to have separated without coming to a decisive resolution respecting it. There were many forcible reasons why such misconduct should have been brought to an early discussion. For if the prevarication of a man of the rank and station of gen. Clavering, were suffered to escape with impunity; if an example were not made in his case, the mischievous consequences likely to result must be obvious. But when he heard it
11531152115111501149Mr. C. W. Wynn
1148 was always, upon constitu-
1148Mr. Curwen
 did not understand that any material inconvenience had resulted to the house in consequence of their having committed Sandon. He was, however, ready to admit that there were some points of distinction between the case of Sandon and that of gen. Clavering, but, at the same time, there did appear contradictions in the evidence of the last witness, that he very much feared it would be impossible satisfactorily to explain, nor was it to be forgotten in the case of general Clavering, that he came for the avowed purpose of invalidating another witness.Mr. John Smith
1159 said, that as it had been postponed so long, perhaps it would have been as well to have postponed it a little longer, in case that the postponement would not be considered by gen. Clavering as a hardship; he thought, however, it would be extremely improper now, that it was brought before the house, to suffer the motion to be withdrawn, because that would look in some degree like a step to abandon it altogether, which would certainly go to commit the dignity of the house. If it did meet with the general wish of the house, not to go into it till after the charges were disposed of, he thought that in that case, the best plan would be to adjourn over the question to some day subse-
1159Mr. Whitbread
 corroborated the statement of the Attorney General; and explained the necessity which called for the Bill.Mr. Tyrwhitt
1158 said, that as he had taken a part in the early stage of this transaction, he could not avoid saying one or two words. When the Motion was first proposed to the house on a former evening, he had wished to postpone the consideration of it, but he confessed he could not see any satisfactory reason for postponing it to a further day. He was perfectly convinced that his right hon. friend, in submitting the proposition he had done, had the same object in view that he himself had; but leaving out of the question altogether whether there was or was not adequate grounds for conviction, he still thought that the merits of the evidence
1158Mr. Wilberforce
11551154 did not profess to justify those parts of gen. Clavering's testimony to which the hon. mover alluded, but there were some statements and observations of his, independently of the evidence, which he was enabled to correct. He could assure the hon. gent., that so far from being an obtrusive volunteer witness, it was not at all the wish of gen. Clavering to appear before the house. Indeed, that appearance resulted from the advice of others, and from the impression, produced upon this officer, that he would be called to the bar, as a material evidence concerning Mrs. Clarke, and the course he took, which he was led to think the more proper, of writing to the Attorney-General, was in consequence of the opinion of Mr. Lowten.
11551154Sir M. W. Ridley
1193119211911190118911881187118611851184amor patriæ11831182*Since the above was prepared for the press, the Editor has been favoured with a full Report of Mr. Stephen's Speech; it will be given at the end of vol. xiii. acknowledged the difficulty and disadvantage under which he laboured, in rising to answer the arguments of the hon. gent. who had just sat down; such was the eloquence with which they were enforced; still, however, he conld
1193119211911190118911881187118611851184amor patriæ11831182*Since the above was prepared for the press, the Editor has been favoured with a full Report of Mr. Stephen's Speech; it will be given at the end of vol. xiii.Mr. Stephen*
5,990,000Decrease in 1808
5,990,000Decrease in 18085,784,000Ditto in 1808
5,784,000Ditto in 180811,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807
11,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807£.£.
£.£.
5,990,000Decrease in 1808
5,990,000Decrease in 18085,784,000Ditto in 1808
5,784,000Ditto in 180811,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807
11,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807£.£.
£.£. said, the measures which had been adopted by the American government, and which we had reason to complain of as directly hostile to this country alone, were two; viz. the Non-Importation Act and the Embargo. The former had been passed in Nov. 1800, and was positively directed against the merchandize and manufactures of this country only; and it could not therefore be occasioned by the Orders in Council, for they were not then dreamt of. The hon. gent. who had just sat down had said, that an American newspaper, which contained the substance of the Orders in Council, had been published at Washington, previous to the meeting of Congress, when the President sent the Message to them, recommending the embargo. He had in his hand the Message which had been referred to by his hon. friend (Mr. Stephen) in which there was not one word or syllable even hinting at the Orders in Council. That was on the 1st of Dec. 1807; and, a week after that, a letter was written by Mr. Madison to Mr. Pinkney, in which also there was no mention of these Orders, but in which Mr. Madison distinctly said, the policy and causes of the embargo are contained in the Message; so that it was evident the Orders in Council had not at that time entered into the President's head. As to what had been said respecting the overstocked state of the Brazil markets, he could suppose, that there might be some few articles there, which were superfluous at present; but to such an amount as the hon. gent. had stated he could not lend his belief. But the hon. gent.'s memory must deceive him with respect to what he had stated him (Mr. Rose) to have said concerning the Brazils.—He then proved, by various arguments, the Non-Importation Act to be hostile to this country, and this only; and combated the assertions made by the hon. member, respecting the decline of our commerce, by laying the following statement before the house:
5,990,000Decrease in 1808
5,990,000Decrease in 18085,784,000Ditto in 1808
5,784,000Ditto in 180811,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807
11,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807£.£.
£.£.
5,990,000Decrease in 1808
5,990,000Decrease in 18085,784,000Ditto in 1808
5,784,000Ditto in 180811,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807
11,774,000Exports to American States, from England, for the years ending March 1806 and 1807£.£.
£.£.Mr. Rose
120812071206120512041203 said, that in rising at that late hour in the morning it was not his intention to trespass long upon the patience of the house; but he must beg leave to observe, that most of what had been urged upon the subject before the house, led to no practical conclusion; led to no recommendation of measures which it might be thought safe and politic to adopt. Almost all he had heard was lost in vagueness of conjecture or splendour of declamation. The question really was between England and France; not between England and America; and, if the question involved matters of a delicate nature, which were not inconsiderately, or prematurely, to be exposed, the fault was with those who called for the Papers, and provoked the discussion; not with those, who, while they deemed it their duty to shrink from no inquiry into their conduct, still felt the impropriety of being forced into explanations, which it were more prudent to postpone. He most certainly should have opposed the production of those Papers, had they not already appeared in print in. another country, because he was sensible that the discussion of them was premature, and that they were not in a shape for fit and seasonable discussion. The blame, as he had already observed, must rest with
120812071206120512041203Mr. Secretary Canning
 entered into some explanation upon the business of his diplomatic mission to America, and said, that notwithstanding the sole object of his embassy was to make satisfaction in the affair of the Chesapeake, he found it impracticable to conclude the business without leading to protracted discussions, the nature of which were incompatible with the honour of this country. And even the very vessel on board of which he went, was not suffered to remain in an American port, but under the direction of the commissioner of customs, and in such station as he should point out. This was so totally incompatible with the nature of the situation he held, as to induce his departure.Mr. G. H. Rose
119611951194 spoke in support of the motion, and in reprobation of the Orders in Council, which he contended, had by their operation materially injured the commerce of this country. He thought, in determining upon the impolicy of the measures adopted towards America, we were sufficiently justified by the experience of the last 16 months. At the same time, he was not inclined to enter into an examination of all that mass of evidence which lay upon the table, because it was so various, that almost any argument might be drawn from it; and the same observation would apply to any conclusion put upon indifferent or, private letters transmitted to this country from America.—In opposition to what had been advanced by the last speaker, on the authority of a private letter, he could assert, that such a change as he had mentioned was not speedily expected to take place in the public opinion in America. Any gentleman, possessing a correspondence in America, might produce one or two letters to sup-
119611951194Mr. Alexander Baring
1209 supported the Address, and declared himself a decided friend to measures of conciliation towards America, lie said his majesty's ministers, instead of acting upon the Order in Council as issued on the 7th of Jan. 1807, which merely interdicted the neutral trade of American ships between port and port, in the countries of Europe under the domination of France, extended it to all the seas of the world, and thus forced America to the Embargo. The American government in the late negociation, as was obvious from the papers on the table, evinced a friendly disposition towards this country, and a contrary one towards France. She offered to take off her Embargo in respect to this country, if we would rescind towards her our Orders in Council. And if we were disposed to this proposition, and only hesitated from a doubt of her sincerity, why was not some endeavour made in the course of negociation, to secure the exclusion of American ships from French ports; and obtain the consent of the American government for ourselves to secure that point, by making prize of all vessels of that nation, found approaching the ports of the enemy. It was the obvious policy of this country to excite hostility between France and America, and this would be the almost inevitable consequence of a cessation of the Embargo in favour of England, while it was continued towards France.—The noble lord then commented upon the spirit of the communication, and the effect produced in
1209Lord H. Petty
l.1202120112001199 rose and said, that it was in the common phraseology of every member rising to speak upon almost any subject to say, that that subject was important. The question now before them was indeed of that character. There could be none, perhaps of greater importance, except that by which we lost America. The same temper that then broke the connexion between England and her colonics seemed to be revived again, and to be now studiously busy in effecting the connexion between America and France; and yet the success that crowned our policy at that time, should make us now rather industrious to avoid, than ambitious of retracing its disasters. I would, said Mr. Grattan, anxiously direct your observations to that eventful time, not to incite you to an imitation of those who went before you, but to deter you by their example—that we may profit by their errors and their failures, and that thus their disgrace may be made of use to their posterity. I recollect the history of that day when America stood up against us, and resisted England and oppression. What in that day was the language of this house? It was the language of complaint; complaint that our colonies were worked up into unnatural rebellion by the speeches delivered in this place. The Opposition was the cause of all, and the Opposition only. The Americans took their instinct of resistance, not from their charters; not from the spirit that because it will, must be free, not from their condition as the colonists of a free people, not from their right of birth as the descendants of a British people, but from the mouths of a faction in this house. This was the language then, and what are we told now? That America is angry, not because she feels the effects of your in-
l.1202120112001199Mr. Grattan
1210 then rose and said, that in consequence of the anxiety expressed from all parts of the house for the question, he should not detain them longer, but
1210Mr. Whitbread
11811180non coram populo,11791178117711761175ruse de guerre,117411731172pari passu,11711170l.,l.1169116811671166116511641163116211611160 rose, and spoke in
11811180non coram populo,11791178117711761175ruse de guerre,117411731172pari passu,11711170l.,l.1169116811671166116511641163116211611160Mr. Whitbread
 moved that the order for the Call of the House be read; which being done, he moved that, the house be called over tomorrow.Lord Folkestone
 objected to the Call being kept hanging over the members by postponing it from day to day.Mr. Beresford
3 understood the intention of the noble lord to be merely to secure a large attendance on an important business, and in that view was of opinion that the proposition ought to be acceded to. However inconvenient it might be to many members, he agreed that the attendance on very important occasions in that house was a duty paramount to every other. But at the same time, he could not but say that the house was not to be threatened by any thing that passed out of doors into a particular line of conduct. He thought it unnecessary to advert more directly to the circumstances, which drew from him that observation,
3The Chancellor of the Exchequer
114113112No! — Adjourn, adjourn !111Adjourn, adjourn,110shall;andmustbut109twenty-second of July.nineteenthimpossible.satisfactory,108l.107106l.,105104l.l.103any means so productive as might have been expected,102l.101l.byagainstl.,100l.l.999897969594dates.but to expedite what was delayed93l.92her word,l.l.Mr. Bridgman and his wifel.l.91l.90l.l.l.l.89l.a little timevery nightl.the identical note of88ordered by the Dukemy servants could not get it changed, and his servant got it changed for me."the notethe note,I thinkthe note;one note.87l.l.l.l.l.we must suppose,86l.l.8584"Certainly not"but twice83merely to request that I might not be called upon."82I saw her address in the newspaper.Colonel French's levyto request that I might not be called upon as a witness,l.8180797877secret from the Duke of Yorkl76KnightBrookemisdemeanour75presentthen74737271l7069l686766656463626160out of delicacy and respect,59connivance at corruption,58575655corruption,manner54—Mr. Speaker; The attention which I have felt it my duty to give to this most important case, during the whole progress of the enquiry, made me anxiously desire to seize the earliest opportunity of submitting my opinion upon it to the consideration of the House; and I should, Sir, unquestionably have presented myself to your notice, as soon as the hon. gent., who opened the debate, sat down, if I had not seen my learned friend (Mr. Burton) prepared to address himself to the house, under circumstances which could not but make me as desirous to give way to him, as they must have made the house anxious to hear him. I felt, sir, that his situation, so perfectly unconnected with party, his judicial character, his experience, his years, every, thing, in short, which does exist in him, and which I am sensible is wanting in myself, entitled him justly to the previous attention of the house. If I had intervened, and disappointed his wish to deliver his opinion at that time, the fatigue and exhausture arising from a protracted debate, might possibly have, disabled him from addressing us at all, and the house would have had to lament the loss of all that light and instruction, which it has derived from his speech; a speech, sir, which I will venture to say, considering the nature and object of our enquiry, and considering the weight and authority of my learned friend's opinion upon such a subject, was one of the ablest, most impressive, and most seasonable, which could possibly have been offered to our attention.114113112No! — Adjourn, adjourn !111Adjourn, adjourn,110shall;andmustbut109twenty-second of July.nineteenthimpossible.satisfactory,108l.107106l.,105104l.l.103any means so productive as might have been expected,102l.101l.byagainstl.,100l.l.999897969594dates.but to expedite what was delayed93l.92her word,l.l.Mr. Bridgman and his wifel.l.91l.90l.l.l.l.89l.a little timevery nightl.the identical note of88ordered by the Dukemy servants could not get it changed, and his servant got it changed for me."the notethe note,I thinkthe note;one note.87l.l.l.l.l.we must suppose,86l.l.8584"Certainly not"but twice83merely to request that I might not be called upon."82I saw her address in the newspaper.Colonel French's levyto request that I might not be called upon as a witness,l.8180797877secret from the Duke of Yorkl76KnightBrookemisdemeanour75presentthen74737271l7069l686766656463626160out of delicacy and respect,59connivance at corruption,58575655corruption,manner54The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
reason10direct refusalyou9youyouhisl.?l.l.8l.7l.l.6l.l.l. stated that he was authorized by Mr. Robert Knight to tell Mrs. Clarke, that she should receive 200reason10direct refusalyou9youyouhisl.?l.l.8l.7l.l.6l.l.l.Dr. Thynne
 had always understood that attention to the business of that house was the first duty of a member of parliament, and therefore thought, that on such an important occasion as the present, absence to attend the assizes, or any duty of an inferior nature, ought not to be excused.Mr. Shaw Lefevre
4443llscintilla4241l.403938l.l.,l.,37thinks363534l.33l.Colonel Knight's Exchange.323130Mutato nomine de te fabula narratur2928 rose and said: Mr. Speaker, I should not obtrude myself thus early upon the attention of the house, if it was not through the fear of being too much exhausted to deliver my sentiments at a late hour. The habits of my life, during the last thirty years, having engaged me pretty much in the investigation of criminal causes, I have thought it a duty to bestow my best attention upon, this important case. I have done so, the rather, because few persons are so unconnected as myself with the Commander in Chief, now under accusation. I never had the honour of exchanging a word with him; and it so happens that I have not in the army any relation, any friend, or even any intimate acquaintance, nor any one for whom I have ever received, or can expect to receive, a single favour. With his accuser I have had the honour of some acquaintance about twenty years, and had frequent occasion to admire the military talents and valour he displayed under the intrepid commander of a regiment that distinguished itself not a little during the unhappy rebellion in Ireland. I had also listened, perhaps too much, to the current reports concerning the object of this enquiry: I certainly, therefore, sat down to the consideration of it, without any bias upon my mind ill favour of the accused; but divesting myself of every prejudice, I determined to pursue the strict line of duty, by considering the case of the Duke of York as calmly and temperately as I would that of one of the meanest subjects in the court where I have the honour to hold a seat. Now, Sir, if I can possibly hope to be of any use in the present deliberation, it will be by stating the course I have taken towards forming an opinion, and to bring my mind to its final conclusion. In the first place, therefore, I attended the examinations at the bar so much as to acquire as good an idea as was in my power of the manner in which all the witnesses delivered their testimony. In the next place, I had read to me the whole of the evidence, from the first word to the last, and much of it more than twice, in order to compare, and re-consider, what was most material. In such a mass of evidence, so mixed, and so confounded, the next step was to clear away all extraneous matter, go as to leave the real subject of investigation open to the view; and in order
4443llscintilla4241l.403938l.l.,l.,37thinks363534l.33l.Colonel Knight's Exchange.323130Mutato nomine de te fabula narratur2928Mr. Burton
54 rose and spoke to the following effect:— Mr. Speaker; I am fully aware of the difficulty of the situation in which I am placed; but I shall not trouble the house with many words before I proceed to examine the evidence which has been taken at the Bar, as well as the written documents on the table; and to comment upon those parts to which I shall have particularly to refer. My leading object from the opening of this important
54Mr. Wardle
 said, that unless the noble lord distinctly stated the reason of this proceeding, he would take the sense of the house upon it.General Gascoyne
 heartily concurred in the proposition, that the judgment of that house ought not to be influenced by any external threats or considerations. He thought it ought to resist the influence and threats of power and authority, as well as threats of every other description. He never voted, except from the dictates of his own understanding and conscience, and by this principle alone, he hoped the house would be guided on the present occasion.Mr. Curwen
5352515049many48count,ll474645 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—Sir; It is with great regret I rise to offer myself to your notice; nothing but an imperious sense of duty should have induced me to occupy a moment of the time of the house, a sense of their former indulgence should prevent my trespassing upon their time.—During all the eventful period which I have sat in parliament, I never witnessed a transaction in which the interests of the coun-
5352515049many48count,ll474645Mr. Curwen
 said, he had no such intention.—The motion was then put, and the house was ordered to be called over to-morrow.Lord Folkestone
154153152151150149148147146145144present143l.l.l.l.142l.l.l.l.,l.l.141l.l.,140l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.139l.l.l.138from Mr. Donovan that Greenwood137l.l.certain person136135Spedding134in particular, for the future never breathe it.133132l.131l.l.l.130129128127126three weeks125which when obtained, shall be transmitted to you."but for your satisfaction will endeavour to inform myself124123proper custody*122121120l.l.119118could be done.as soonthat, and also, that if it could be obtained,117l.l.l.l.l.l.116l.l.l.l.l.l.115 resumed his speech. After thanking the house for the indulgence which had been afforded to him by the adjournment, and after shortly recapitulating the points of the Case which he had observed upon the day before, and making some additional observations on, col. French's Levy, he proceeded as follows:154153152151150149148147146145144present143l.l.l.l.142l.l.l.l.,l.l.141l.l.,140l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.139l.l.l.138from Mr. Donovan that Greenwood137l.l.certain person136135Spedding134in particular, for the future never breathe it.133132l.131l.l.l.130129128127126three weeks125which when obtained, shall be transmitted to you."but for your satisfaction will endeavour to inform myself124123proper custody*122121120l.l.119118could be done.as soonthat, and also, that if it could be obtained,117l.l.l.l.l.l.116l.l.l.l.l.l.115The Chancellor of the Exchequer
159158157156155* considered the address moved by the hon. gent. who opened the debate so objectionable, that it was impossible for him to give it his concurrence. But, disapproving as he did of the original address, he felt as strong an objection to the course proposed by his right hon. friend who had just sat down. He, however, intirely concurred in the view of his right hon. friend, that it was absolutely necessary for the house to come to some decision upon the leading question respecting the charge of corruption. As to the various ways in which this may be done, it was his opinion that a resolution would be the most proper and parliamentary. The address of the hon. gent, involved an alternative which would have the effect of leaving the question of corruption undecided, which, as well in justice to the illustrious person accused, as from a regard to the judicial character of that house, and to the consistency of its proceedings, it was their duty to give judgment upon. With the principle of the resolutions of his right hon. friend, so far as related to the acquittal of h. r. h. the D. of Y. of personal corruption, he perfectly concurred. But at the same time he should prefer some more comprehensive resolutions which should embrace at once all the parts of the case; for there were other charges, as well as that of personal corruption, respecting military matters, upon which the house was bound to pronounce an opinion. His principal objection, therefore, to the amendment of his right hon friend, was, that his right hon. friend did not propose to do enough in the first instance, and yet, when that should be done, that what he proposed to do afterwards appeared to be both from its tone and its manner quite superfluous—if not something more than superfluous. Considering as he did the mode of159158157156155*Mr. Bathurst
 moved, that the order of the day be read for calling over the house, which being done, he moved, that the house be called over to-morrow, as there was a probability that the business would not close to-night.Lord Folkestone
 said, if it did not, he thought it unnecessary to have the call of the house hanging over the heads of the members if not carried into execution. The Irish gentlemen were under the necessity of returning to the Assizes, and if the noble lord persisted, he must allude to the Union, the business of grand juries in Ireland, the state of the roads, and other particulars, which it would take him three hours to explain. The call was unnecessary, as it was evident gentlemen did not wish to shun their business.Mr. Beresford
265264263262261260259258257*256l.l.l.l.l;l.l.l.l;d.s.l.255254253l.l.l.252l.251l.little before this time,morning250249l.l.l.l.248247*246245244243242241 (Sir Vicary Cibbs) —Sir, some of the observations of the hon. gent., (Mr. Whitbread) who has just sat down, were applied personally to me and to my conduct in the official situation which I have the honour of filling. With respect to those observations I shall not detain the house by entering into any consideration of them, but content myself
265264263262261260259258257*256l.l.l.l.l;l.l.l.l;d.s.l.255254253l.l.l.252l.251l.little before this time,morning250249l.l.l.l.248247*246245244243242241The Attorney General
 rose, amidst the repeated cries of Adjourn '. adjourn ! He said it was not his intention to intrude himself upon the notice of the house, at that late hour, but as he meant to move an Amendment upon the original motion, he was desirous of making a few general observations upon the nature and extent of that Amendment. The Amendment, he said, suggested that night, by a right hon. friend (Mr. Bathurst) would form the basis of that which he should have the honour of submitting for the approbation of the house, and he trusted it would not only meet the justice of the case, but be free from objection. In the view, however, he had taken of the subject, though he was prepared to proceed, if the house were disposed to hear him, yet he thought it advisable to avail himself of the few hours reflection the adjournment would give him, and to consult further with his friends upon a point that called for such grave and mature consideration. It was, he said, his intention to propose the abridgment of much of the Address as it was originally moved, and to add to it a paragraph, that should negative the conclusion of personal corruption or criminal participation or accession on the part of his royal highness. It was also his intention to propose that that part of the address which went to the dismissal of h. r. h. should be left out; but at the same time, that the Amendment should be so worded, that it should express the decided opinion of the house, that his royal highness the Duke of York at present could not continue to hold the office of Commander in Chief. Having said that, he should, without further remark, proceed to move that the house do adjourn.Mr. Bankes
 wished to understand, if it was the intention of the noble lord that the Call was to stand for Monday next; if so, he would take the sense of the house.Mr. Gascoyne
 thought the call unnecessary, from the attendance in the house below and above stairs.Mr. Fuller
that,Plain Statement,240239238237As absent fur.Inly he laugh'd, to see them laugh at him,Gaily carousing midst his gay compeers,Nor ever failed the midnight bowl to crown.He led the dance, and threw the deadly die:There foremost at the banquet and the ball,That dreadful masquervjder—a236that235234Verbum sat.233232231230l.l.l.l.l.229Il.,l.,l.l.228227l.the fact was denied.226l.225l.224l.223crimesl.l.l.222l.crimp!221have220219218217Ihim216215214213212211210hors de combat,209208Quousque tandem abutêre?à la question,207206Tels sont mes sujets.Abas'd your daughter, and exalted me.And not regarding difference of degree,He levels mountains, and he raises plains;With unresisted might, the monarch reigns,they205204203l.202l.I201l.l.l.l.,notl.200thinks199thinksl.,l.198197Non minus ignotos generosis.Nam fulgente trahit constrictos gloria curru196that195them?hethereforel.194he193192l.I191Instat equis auriga, neque audit currus habenas.Pendens retinacula tendit,190all189188lest it should come to the ears of187I do not,186vivârepresentedswornservant185myself,184respectable183*182181shethat180Then,179178177incorrectly,176her175***174their173dicta172171*170169*knew168justice,to see fair ploy.167me,thenyet166165164163162161160—Much as it was my wish to have followed the Chancellor of the Exchequer in this debate, I am now glad that the rt. hon. gent., who last addressed you, has interposed; and that the house has had the advantage of hearing his clear and judicious statement of that part of the voluminous mass of evidence upon your table, to which he has chosen more particularly to advert. It will save you the trouble of hearing any thing from me on that head of the subject. His deductions are fair and perspicuous; his arguments sound, and such, as I think, no man can overturn. I agree entirely in the conclusions he has drawn, and think he has put the house in possession of all that can be urged in support of them.—In the speech which he concluded this evening, the Chancellor of the Exchequer has surpassed himself. I can with truth say, that, in my opinion, a better speech has never been delivered by any living member of the House of Commons. Greatly as I differ from him, on the subject now under deliberation, I could not withhold my tribute of applause, and admiration, to the talents which he
that,Plain Statement,240239238237As absent fur.Inly he laugh'd, to see them laugh at him,Gaily carousing midst his gay compeers,Nor ever failed the midnight bowl to crown.He led the dance, and threw the deadly die:There foremost at the banquet and the ball,That dreadful masquervjder—a236that235234Verbum sat.233232231230l.l.l.l.l.229Il.,l.,l.l.228227l.the fact was denied.226l.225l.224l.223crimesl.l.l.222l.crimp!221have220219218217Ihim216215214213212211210hors de combat,209208Quousque tandem abutêre?à la question,207206Tels sont mes sujets.Abas'd your daughter, and exalted me.And not regarding difference of degree,He levels mountains, and he raises plains;With unresisted might, the monarch reigns,they205204203l.202l.I201l.l.l.l.,notl.200thinks199thinksl.,l.198197Non minus ignotos generosis.Nam fulgente trahit constrictos gloria curru196that195them?hethereforel.194he193192l.I191Instat equis auriga, neque audit currus habenas.Pendens retinacula tendit,190all189188lest it should come to the ears of187I do not,186vivârepresentedswornservant185myself,184respectable183*182181shethat180Then,179178177incorrectly,176her175***174their173dicta172171*170169*knew168justice,to see fair ploy.167me,thenyet166165164163162161160Mr. Whitbread.
266 understanding that the noble lord (Folkestone) did not intend to prolong the order for the Call of the house till Monday se'n-night, withdrew his notice of a motion for rescinding that order.—Upon the motion of sir Charles Pole, a copy of the Charter
266Mr. Alderman Beresford
 saw no objection to the motion. But he hoped that no mistaken idea would be entertained that he did not think it probable that the house would come to a division that night, although it was improbable that the debate upon the main question could terminate before Monday. He thought it necessary to protest against any such understanding, lest it might lead many members to withdraw. It was understood to be the. intention of an hon. friend of his (Mr. Bankes) to propose a motion which would lead to a bye discussion upon the proper mode of proceeding, and upon which the house would probably come to a division in the course of this night; still the general question would, as the noble lord stated, stand over until Monday. Although he was not disposed to follow the argument of the hon. general in the gallery, that by staying up until eight or nine in the morning, the house was likely to come fresh to a decision, yet he thought it desirable, and he hoped they would, in order to forward the business, continue its sitting longer than it had yet done upon this subject. The motion of his hon. friend would involve the question, whether the house would adopt an Address or a Resolution, and after this preliminary question should be disposed of, still the general question would remain. Therefore he thought the discussion would go over until Monday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
269 in explanation said, that the right hon. gent. was under a mistake, if he understood him to state that no divi-
269Lord Folkestone
 declined moving to rescind the order for a Call of the House, understanding that it was impossible the debate upon the question into which it was just about to enter could be gone through to-night. He therefore thought it necessary to postpone the order for calling over the house until Monday; and thinking it would be improper to follow up the discussion tomorrow, he would take leave, as it had not been proposed on the other side, to make the usual motion, that the house should on its rising adjourn till Monday.Lord Folkestone
288287l.286l.l.285l.284verbatim283282281280 observed that the distinction taken by the last speaker, appeared to him to be one of the most extraordinary that he ever recollected since he had the honour of a seat in that house. He felt the greatest confidence that the house would come to a just and conscientious decision on this subject, which was one of the most important that had fallen tinder the cognizance of parliament within his memory. There were many members, who, in their capacity of magistrates, must have acquired a very competent knowledge of the principles of the laws of evidence, and it was upon these principles only that they could decide respecting the credibility of the evidence they had heard at their bar. That house he would always consider as the representative body of the empire; and though there might be occasions in which it might be proper to defer to popular opinion, yet he was certain they would never sacrifice their own dignity and the principles of justice to any popular cry. He felt confident, therefore, that the ultimate decision of the house would be satisfactory to the public.—There were two questions before the house. The first was, Whether his royal highness the Duke of York was
288287l.286l.l.285l.284verbatim283282281280Mr. Yorke
304303302301300 expressed his satisfaction at having given way to the learned member who spoke last. He was anxious to hear his sentiments on the important subject before the house; because, from his high professional character, he was led to entertain strong hopes, that they would accord with the view which other able men had taken of the question. He agreed with him, perfectly, that the question was to be decided by the evidence before the house, but upon the closest attention that he had been able to give to that evidence, he was led to draw from it a conclusion quite different to that deduced by the hon. and learned gentleman.—But, before he should notice what had fallen from that hon. and learned gent. he should say a word or two upon what had been urged by the right hon. gent. opposite (Sir. Yorke). With respect to what had been stated by the right hon. gent. on the floor, on the proceeding proposed by the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes), he would refer to the explanation given by that hon. gent. The hon. gentleman who proposed that proceeding, had explained its nature in a few
304303302301300Lord Folkestone
316315l.l.314l.l.313l.l.312311l.310309308307306305 resumed. He was persuaded that there was but little difference in the distinction of the learned gent. that an accomplice was to be received, but not believed, as a witness. He would read to the house, not what he could take upon himself to say but what he understood from those better qualified to judge, was understood to be the admitted and acknowledged law upon this subject, and he should then leave it to the house to judge whether there was any thing in the distinction of the learned gentleman. The authority from which he was to quote was the 4th volume of Mr. Leach's Report of Crown Law. The case to which he would refer was that of James Martin and Thomas Robbins, who had been tried for highway robbery before Mr. Justice Buller, and convicted upon the simple evidence of an accomplice. The robbery had been committed on a night so dark as to preclude the possibility of the party robbed being able to identify the robbers. One of the three was admitted an evidence for the Crown, and the other two were convicted upon his testimony. The case, however, was reserved by Mr. Justice Buller, and the decision of the twelve Judges was unanimously given, "That an accomplice alone was a competent witness, and if the Jury weighing the probabilities of the case should think him worthy of credit, and convict the accused party, that such conviction was legal: that the distinction between competence and credibility had been long settled, that if any question respecting the competence of a witness arose, the Judge was to determine it; but that on a question respecting credit, it was to be left to the Jury to decide, whether the witness was worthy of credit." (Hear, hear, hear!) By the cheering of the hon.
316315l.l.314l.l.313l.l.312311l.310309308307306305Lord Folkestone
353352351350349348347346345344343res gestœ,342341l.l.l.l.l.l.l.340l.l.l.l.l.l.339l.l.l.338337l.336l.l.l.,l.335l. is called, and she says "she remembers Pierson calling in the end of July, 1805, with a note; she cannot recollect exactly what passed, but she did not change the note. She did not see the note, but thinks he said it was 100353352351350349348347346345344343res gestœ,342341l.l.l.l.l.l.l.340l.l.l.l.l.l.339l.l.l.338337l.336l.l.l.,l.335l.Mrs. Bridgeman
l.,l.l.334333l.l.332l.l.l.l.l.331l.l.l.,l.l.330l.l.l.329328327326325324323322l.321320319l.318317; I am sure the house will not be surprised that I should take the first moment to present myself to you after what has fallen from the noble lord, respecting the testimony which I have been called upon to give in this proceeding.l.,l.l.334333l.l.332l.l.l.l.l.331l.l.l.,l.l.330l.l.l.329328327326325324323322l.321320319l.318317Mr. Speaker
 here interposed, as he said, for the purpose of saving the time of the noble lord and of the house, by re-stating what he had said on the occasion alluded to. He did not think he had said, but he was certain he did not mean to say, that an accomplice was not to be received as a witness, but not to be believed unless corroborated by other unimpeached testimony. An accomplice was a witness competent, but not credible, except corroborated.Mr. Burton
 as the important discussion before the house was about to be continued on Monday, postponed his notice relative to the Duke of York's Letter; he would decline until the main question was decided, to mention any particular day for bringing forward this motion, as also the resumed discussion upon general Clavering's evidence, which stood for Tuesday, and which he also postponed.Mr. C. W. Wynn,
279278277276275l.274273272271270 rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his promised Amendment. In venturing, he said, to stand forward upon this question; in taking the liberty to state the opinion with which his mind was impressed, and in which he differed from many persons whom he esteemed and respected; in attempting to discharge the important duty imposed upon him as a member of that house, he should regret if any gentleman on either side could suppose him capable of contriving any expedient, or availing himself of any intricacy founded merely upon parliamentary practice, to add to the length of the debate, or to embarrass the course of proceeding upon which either side might have determined. He protested against the idea that the motion he proposed to submit was merely of a preliminary nature, and referring only to a point of form. No, it comprehended the whole case under consideration, for it meant this, that after all the circumstances which had been disclosed before the Committee, that house was bound to pronounce an opinion, and to lay that opinion before his majesty, and not confine itself to the mere insertion of a Resolution upon its Journals. The house should take care, in a case of this nature, that it should not be entrapped; that it should not be betrayed into an inefficient proceeding. If the first Resolution proposed by his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) were agreed to, how was the house sure that any further Resolution Would be adopted? But even if the further propositions of the Chancel-
279278277276275l.274273272271270Mr. Bankes
268 observed, that if he forbore to follow up his notice of moving that this order should be discharged, it was not in consequence of any argument that had fallen from the noble lord. But it was his wish to avoid any discussion that might tend to prolong a debate which had already been prolonged to an unreasonable time, and because it was desirable, for the sake of the illustrious person more immediately concerned; for the sake of the public mind, which was so much agitated about it; and through regard to that personage, whose name could not be consistently introduced to influence the debates of that house, that it should be brought to a termination as soon as possible. The house had already been occupied two long nights upon the subject, and he had little doubt that so much sitting up was likely to disable more members from attending the final decision, than the noble lord's Call was capable of collecting. But he hoped the business would be gone through this night. He really thought that if gentlemen would have patience to attend until eight or nine in the morning, if necessary, it would be practicable to bring the question to a vote by that time. There was nothing in fact occasioned delay so much as the frequent adjournments; for thus every man at all inclined was afforded opportunity and encouragement to speak, whereas if it was determined to conclude the discussion in one night, gentlemen of moderate talents would be apt to give way. But if the house went on as it had, and supposing only five members, out of every 100 of which it was com-
268General Gascoyne
299298l.297296295294293292291l.290 Sir; I am unwilling upon this most important occasion, to give a silent vote; I am anxious to state the grounds upon which my judgment has been formed, but I can assure the house that I shall occupy but a small portion of their time. It will be enough for my purpose to consider the subject in a general point of view, without feeling myself called upon to enter into a particular or minute detail of all the evidence. I cannot concur with either of the two addresses originally submitted to the house. I cannot concur with them, because they do not contain a complete acquittal of h. r. h. as well with respect to the charge of connivance, as the charge of corruption. I cannot concur with them, because the removal of h. r. h. from the important office, which he has so long filled with advantage to the public, is one object of both addresses. It is admitted, that h. r. h. cannot be convicted of corruption or corrupt connivance in the transactions which have taken place, unless credit be given to the Evidence of Mrs. C. Upon the best view I can take of the subject, I think Mrs. C. is not entitled to credit as to any circumstance with regard to which it can be fairly imputed to her, that she had a motive for concealing the truth. I think she is not entitled to credit, because we find her contradicted by most unimpeachable witnesses, because her testimony is in itself, in some points inconsistent and contradictory, and because there are parts of her testimony which are in their own nature wholly incredible. The house will pardon me if in adverting to these topics I am under the necessity of reading a few passages in the evidence; I will first refer to the particular evidence in which she is contradicted by Mr. Knight. In speaking of the testimony of Mr. Knight, I do not mean to advert to the conversation which Mr. Knight states to have passed in 1804, because the length of time which has since passed, may be thought to account for some difference between them in that respect. But I shall refer to the conversation which took place shortly before they were called to your bar, and in which you will find there is positive contradiction between them. Mr. Knight's account of that conversation is this: The question asked of him was, Have you seen Mrs. C. within the last month, and how did it happen that you saw her? His answer is, She wrote to 'beg that I would come to her about a month ago, to which letter I made no
299298l.297296295294293292291l.290Mr. Leach.
 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—Mr. Adam
267s.l.l.l.l. rose to move for the production of a Paper, which as it referred to the question to be discussed this evening, he hoped he should be excused in bringing forward without any previous notice. It had been sanctioned in the letter of general Taylor, and frequently referred to in the course of the debate, that each man raised under col. French's Levy had cost the country no less than 150267s.l.l.l.l.Mr. Huskisson
358Altius ibunt, &c.Censor Morum.357Aperto vivere vote,356355354 said, that many observations had been made on the conduct of the house towards the hon. mover of this business. That of the gentlemen with whom he usually acted, he thought perfect-
358Altius ibunt, &c.Censor Morum.357Aperto vivere vote,356355354Mr. William Smith
 defended himself from the imputation of pretending to any power over the house. It was for the house to decide on this question, and not for him. At the same time, he trusted, that for reasons similar to those which he had stated on a former occasion, the house would adopt the motion which he had the honour of submitting to them.Lord Folkestone
 adverting to the last observation of the hon. baronet, disclaimed any intention on his part of repeating the observations with which he had, on a recent evening, tresspassed on the patience of the house. The only object for which he should feel it incumbent on him again to rise was, to explain the various misunderstandings which had occurred with respect to several parts of his speech; and also declare what appeared to he him to be the state of the question before the house, and on what the house were actually called upon to decide; for it has his opinion, that if without further elucidation the question was put from the Chair, many members would be at a loss to know in what way to vote, so as to express their real sentiments. In declaring, however, these as the limits which he should prescribe to himself in again addressing the house, he begged not to be understood as penying the right of any individual who had already spoken, and who might again choose to speak on a fresh question, to go as much into detail on the main subject as he thought proper. With respect to the motion of the noble lord, it must meet with his support. Let the house consider the object of that motion in the first instance. It was not for the purpose of procuring a full attendance in the discussion, so much as on the division. He was prepared to agree to the observation of the hon. baronet, of the inconvenience likely to result to the health, and even life, of members, from the prolonged debates that so closely followed each other. Should circumstances demand a continuation of discussion for the whole of this week, the evil would be very serious. In that case, it would perhaps be advisable to make a break; and if the discussion should not be completed on to-morrow night, to adjourn over Wednesday, in order to give a pause to the members, and to enable them to return with recruited faculties of body and mind to the discussion and ultimate decision of this most important proceeding.—The motion was then agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
420419418l.417416 conceived it his bounden duty to state to the house the reasons upon which his opinion was founded. The house, he observed, had three questions to determine in this case: First, Whether the D. of Y. was guilty? 2dly, To what extent? and 3dly, Whether any and what proceedings should be taken in consequence? In his opinion, the Amendment proposed by the hon. gent, on the floor (Mr. Bankes) was more objectionable, while it professed to be milder than the original Address; as it asserted a connivance at the abuses disclosed in the evidence, relative to the disposal of commissions, which connivance, had it actually taken place, must, both in morality and law, be deemed criminal: this criminality, too, aggravated by the grossest hypocrisy; such disposal of commissions being a direct breach of the regulations promulgated by the Duke of York himself.—The propriety of deciding upon his right hon. friend's resolution, in the first instance, was, he thought, obvious for this simple reason, that all, or at least nearly all men professedly concurred in acquitting the D. of Y. of personal corruption. That, then, being the declaration which his right hon. friend's motion called for, he saw no good reason for objecting to it, and after its adoption, the house would be competent to determine upon the expediency of any subsequent proceeding, whether for removal or not. To send up any address to his majesty relative to the D. of Y. including the charge of connivance, would in his judgment, be most severe and unjust, particularly when the nature of the evidence was considered. It would be an act of cruelty to pronounce an irrevocable sentence upon the illustrious accused, which would be worse than death; it would be to affix an infamy to h. r. h.'s name and
420419418l.417416The Solicitor General
364363l.;l.l.362361 observed, That he rose to oppose the address proposed by the hon. gent, opposite (Mr. Bankes), who had declared, that although no charge of corruption had been established against h. r. h. the D of Y., yet that the house had been just put in possession of facts sufficient to induce them to believe, that h. r. h. must have entertained a suspicion of the abuses that existed; and consequently that it was their duty to agree to a proposition, the tendency of which was, to deprive him of the command of the army. In delivering his sentiments on this subject, he felt his task considerably lightened by the conviction, that a great majority of that house were persuaded that no reliance whatever was to be placed on the testimony of Mrs. C.—(A cry of no, no ! and hear, hear!)— At least, such was his understanding of the opinion of the greater part of those whom he had the honour to address. If it were not so, if the testimony of Mrs. C. was to
364363l.;l.l.362361The Secretary at War
And virtue's faithless foes be false to glory too.That what corrupts the heart, should curb the hand,That vicious aims should sordid paths pursue,For 'tis highest Heaven's command393392391390389388387386385384383382381able380very rarely:379honour378377376375374373372371370369368367366365 began by observing, that he never rose to address the house under circumstances more painful to his feelings than the present, or more imperiously demanding the performance of his duty to his constituents and his country.And virtue's faithless foes be false to glory too.That what corrupts the heart, should curb the hand,That vicious aims should sordid paths pursue,For 'tis highest Heaven's command393392391390389388387386385384383382381able380very rarely:379honour378377376375374373372371370369368367366365Sir Francis Burdett
403402401400399398397l.l.iota396395394 said, that he had wished much to hear the evidence canvassed and commented upon before he expressed his opinion, and, with that view, had delayed offering himself to their attention until that moment. There were many parts of the ingenious speech of the honourable baronet in which he agreed. It should be his endeavour, in what he had to say, to discharge his duty with impartiality, and to assist in the promotion of their common object, the discovery of the truth. He agreed with the hon. bart. that ultimately, every man should vote according to his conviction, and should do all in his power that that conviction should be right; else it would happen, as Doctor Johnson had said, that strong party principles would produce wrong convictions, and that would countenance the charge, that though the conviction was produced, it was not come by honestly. He admitted it was desirable that their minds should be perfectly unbiassed and upright, in the investigation; that they should be equally removed from popular prejudice upon the one hand, and from considerations of rank and exalted station upon the other. Such were the sentiments with which it became that
403402401400399398397l.l.iota396395394The Master of the Rolls
414413limine,412411410409l.408407406405404 in rising to address the house, declared that it was not his intention to follow his hon. and learned friend into many of the observations which he had introduced into the speech he I had just finished. The subject under consideration he saw in a different point of view, from every person of the profession to which he belonged, who had expressed his sentiments upon it. It was, therefore, incumbent upon him not to give a silent vote upon the question, but to state to the house the reasons which, in his mind justified the vote he meant to give. He trusted the house would allow him, not to go into all the cases to comment upon the whole of the evidence, or even to endeavour to add much to the forcible observations which had already been submitted to the house, an endeavour to which he felt himself unequal, but to point out those parts of the evidence which had most weight with him in deciding his opinion. It was impossible for him, upon comparing these parts of the evidence, upon calling to mind the character, the conduct, and demeanour of the witnesses who had been examined at the bar in the progress of this business; upon weighing all the circumstances both of their testimonies, and their bearing upon the question under investigation; upon such a general view of the subject, it was impossible for him to assent to the proposition of his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That proposition went to call upon the house to vote, what in his conscience he could not assent to, namely, that there was no ground of charge against h. r. h. the D. of Y., on the score of corruption, or connivance at corruption. But before he made any observations upon that proposition, or stated the reasons why he could not concur in it, he begged to say a few words upon the subject of the original Address which had been moved by the hon. member who had instituted the proceeding in that house. That Address contained a prayer to his majesty that he would be
414413limine,412411410409l.408407406405404Sir Samuel Romilly,
 observed, that unquestionably no letter of the sort alluded to could be read, except by the indulgence of the house.The Speaker
ex parte415 regretted that, in these resolutions there was no proposition which would bring the house to a distinct vote of aye or no upon the accusation. He admitted that
ex parte415Mr. H. Smith
 repeated his objections to this prolongation of the call. It had a bad tendency, because many members who heard the postponement of the call, anticipated the adjournment of the debate, and consequently absented themselves from the house. Of this fact, the comparative state of the house at two o' clock on Thursday morning last, and at two o' clock on Saturday morning last, afforded sufficient proof. He was convinced that not an individual attendance would be produced by the call, more than what would have taken place without it. But from the perpetual postponements of this motion the house must suffer in the opinion of the public, who would imagine that such a measure was necessary to compel their representatives to attend to their duty. The noble lord treated the house of commons like school-boys; but lie trusted that lie would not find his controul so extensive as perhaps he flattered himself it was. He had risen with a determination, that the motion should not pass without comment: if the feeling of the house appeared to be with him, he should certainly press the question to a division.General Gascoyne
 stated, that the object of the letter was to declare, that capt. Spedding knew not any thing of the transactions imputed to him, and that if any such had occurred, they were attributable to his agent, and not to himself. That capt. Spedding was one of the last men who would be guilty of an action in the least degree dishonourable he was perfectly persuaded, and he appealed to his hon. colleague for his opinion on the subject.Mr. Curwen
 rose, and produced a Letter which he had received from an honourable officer (capt. Spedding}, to whose character he bore the highest testimony. With the permission of the house he would read this Letter. The hon. member was proceeding to read capt. Spedding's letter, when he was interrupted byMr. Curwen
 who observed, that it had already been decided in the course of this proceeding, that to read a letter in the way intended by the hon. gent, was disorderly.Mr. Whitbread,
 declared the high estimation in which he held capt. Spedding's character.Mr. Wallace
359 stated the inconvenience which resulted from prolonging the discussion on each night to so late an hour. In his opinion it must be destructive to the life of some individuals, and to the health of all.
359Sir T. Turton
422
422Lord Folke
 suggested to the noble lord, that as it might be possible this night for the house to conclude whether it was proper to adopt the mode of Address or Resolutions, perhaps it would be better not to propose his motion at so early an hour, before the decision upon that part of the question which pointed out the most convenient mode of proceeding. He could wish it to be held over their heads till the end of their sitting this evening, that in case they did come to any decision, the opportunity of such a break in the discussion might be seized, to move a short adjournment, which was not only desirable for the health and strength of the members, but also to enable them to come with a clear and unfatigued mind to a final decision upon a question so important. For himself, he was free to confess, that five nights in a week sitting up till three or four o'clock in the morning, and being again called on at an early hour to fulfil the other duties of his official situation, was, he found, too much fatigue for him to undergo. The health also of the respectable person in the Chair was an object not to be trifled with, though he was sure he would be the last to complain of it. What he wished, therefore, was, that the noble lord should not push his motion till the rising of the house, when, if they had decided between the Address and Resolutions, he would move for an adjournment of this debate over Wednesday, and that the Call of the House be enforced on Thursday; and if they did not come to any decision then, that the present motion for a Call tomorrow, when the business should go on, might be acceded to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was ready to accede to the proposition of the right hon. gent., not only on his own account, but on account of the right hon. member who filled the Chair. He had only to observe, that his desisting at this moment did not imply that the Call was dropped, but that, whether to-morrow or the next day, it might be enforced till the business was concluded.Lord Folkestone
486 said, that he would occupy the time of the house but for a few moments. He had prepared himself to speak to many points of the evidence, and would have begged their attention for a longer space, if the able and perspicuous manner in which it had already been treated by his right hon. friends, did not render it unnecessary and even unpardonable, for him to retrace what they had so fully established. So unnecessary did he deem his remarks to the advancement of the cause to which he was favourable, that he would not have trespassed even for the few moments he intended, if he had not been called up by an allusion to precedents, which, in his opinion, were not correctly quoted. The hon. gent who had just sat down, undertook to defend the Address, by an appeal to the time of king William, from which he professed to have drawn a precedent in support of the present proceeding. He (Mr. Rose) was as favourably disposed to the time of king William as the hon. gent, could possibly be; but if he were not mistaken, that precedent was drawn from the time of Charles II. to which he was not quite so partial. He believed that the hon. gent.'s recollection had failed him in this particular, and that the precedent upon which he so much depended was not to be found in so happy and constitutional a period of our history as he conceived, when he produced it to the house. The hon. gent. had said, that the house upon that occasion addressed his majesty to remove the four lords from his councils and presence for ever; but when the hon. gent, stated this, he had not stated the whole of the case, for the house of lords took up the case and remonstrated upon the occasion; they said it was unjust that the accused peers should be condemned without a trial; and the result was, that their remonstrance was successful, and the Lords were not removed. There was another circumstance too to be considered which detracted much from the force of this appeal to precedent, and that was, that the whole course of the precedents, after that time, were all against the hon. gent.'s position; in the case of the duke of Marlborough, in the case of lord Halifax, in
486Mr. Rose
489l.488l.l.487 said, that having formed his opinion upon the question before the house, he was desirous to state the grounds upon which it was formed. He thought that the House of Commons was right in determining to examine witnesses at the bar, but after the manner in which the evidence had gone forth to the public, garbled and disfigured as it appeared in the daily prints, he dreaded, nay, he believed that the majority of the people of England did think the Duke of York guilty. At a time when the country called for extraordinary exertion, he was not sorry to see the people jealous of their own character, and jealous of the honour and character of their princes. He trusted, therefore that they would come to a decision on this subject and not send the person accused forth with a stain on his reputation. To him it appeared that the Duke of York was not only not guilty, but that there was strong evidence that they had all been imposed on. He gave credit to the hon. gent. who brought forward the business, for the man-
489l.488l.l.487Mr. Wortley Stewart
490 in explanation, said, that if his memory served him rightly, he did not represent Mrs. Clarke's testimony alone as sufficient to convict any person;
490Sir Francis Burdett,
528527526525 rose amidst a loud cry of "question! Question!" He said he should not, at that hour, intrude himself upon the attention of the house, but that he felt it his paramount duty to deliver his sentiments on a question of such magnitude, before the house should come to a decision upon it. The right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, to his surprise, had expressed his intention of voting, as he conceived, contrary to what his opinions would have led the house to suppose, and which would almost induce a belief that he did so to mislead the judgment of others. For his part he intended to oppose both Addresses; he dill not conceive it the proper mode to be adopted; he thought they should vote distinct resolutions, and then act upon those resolutions; and not adopt an Address in the first instance, which would imply that the Duke of York was guilty of criminal connivance at Mrs. Clarke's fraud. If, however, he were to give an opinion between the two Addresses, he should prefer the Address of the hon. mover, as conveying a more direct Resolution of the house. But, what was the case stated? It was said the Duke of York knew of Mrs. Clarke's practices, and if he knew of them he must be personally corrupt. Could any one suppose that he knew of her taking money for his patronage, and converting it to the purposes of housekeeping, and be content simply with his removal, without a desire to bring him to further trial s If the house really believed the Duke of York guilty of either knowing or suspecting that Mrs. Clarke received money for those Commissions, which he was charged with having granted at her interference, he could not see how it was possible to avoid pronouncing him corrupt. If he had known that such sums of money went to the support of the establishment in Gloucester-place, it would have been as corrupt as if he had put the money in his own pocket. The house was certainly competent to address his majesty as they should deem fit, but where the crime was so infamous, he could not reconcile it with fitness to the Constitution to find any person guilty during his absence. He could not conceive any thing which could bring so delicate a subject under his majesty's consideration in a more poignant shape than the course proposed by address, which must be rendered additionally poignant if the house were not inclined to act upon the recommendation of a constitutional trial upon this serious and
528527526525Lord Castlereagh
533532531530529 rose amidst aloud cry of "question! question!" He said he should not, at that hour, intrude himself upon the attention of the house, but that he felt it his paramount duty to deliver his sentiments on a question of such magnitude, before the house should come to a decision upon it. The right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, to his surprise, had expressed his intention of voting, as he conceived, contrary to what his opinions would have led the house to suppose, and which would almost induce a belief that he did so to mislead the judgment of others. For his part he intended to oppose both Addresses; he did not conceive it the proper mode to be adopted; he thought they
533532531530529Lord Castlereagh
 coincided in opinion with the noble lord as to the adjournment, and also in the hope that the house might be able to come to a decision of the first question at the close of the next day's debate, which had already been protracted to a very great length; but he must confess with a temperance in the discussion, and a patience in the attention, which no subject had ever before received.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that when so many gentlemen had patiently been listened to while they gave their opinions at such length as to average two hours each, the country gentlemen, who would not perhaps take up quarters, where the others had consumed whole hours, should not be curtailed of an opportunity of speaking their sentiments.Mr. Herbert
 said, he should for one put in his claim to being heard on the subject; he hoped, however, that the house would be able to come to a decision of a parliamentary question at the close of the next day's debate, though there would certainly follow another on the order in which the ultimate decision of the house should take place.Mr. Ponsonby
 concurred in this opinion.—Adjourned at half past three o'clock on Wednesday morning.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, and in answer to the hon. member's question, said, he should always feel himself quite disposed to gratify even the curiosity of any member, however disorderly it might be to put such questions as that now put to him. The mode of putting that question to him inferred almost a refusal to reply, as if he (Sir Francis Burdett) had actually retired with some of the public money in his pocket, or been concerned in giving money to conceal a great public grievance, of the nature comprised in the charges now before them. He did not, however, feel disposed to reply with any acrimony to such insinuations, but certainly, only with a view to satisfy the hon. gent., and he had therefore to state, that no such circumstance as his offering money to Mrs. Clarke did ever take place.Sir F. Burdett,
 returned his thanks to the house for their attention towards him, and the indulgence with which they seemed disposed to treat him, but he might venture without affectation to say, that he found no disability in himself to continue to discharge his duty, so long as the house found it expedient to carry on these discussions.The Speaker
 after a short conversation with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, postponed his motion for the further consideration of the evidence of gen. Clavering till Monday next.Mr. C. W. Wynn,
ex parte;non liquet,430l.l.429428427426425***424 rose, and observed, that had it not been for the exhausted state of the house this morning he would have pressed upon its attention some considerations respecting the course of proceeding, which the hon. and learned gent., the Solicitor-General, had said to be
ex parte;non liquet,430l.l.429428427426425***424Mr. Charles Williams Wynn
485484483482481 was of opinion, that if the truth were to be sacrificed to the pleasantries and witty sallies of the hon. member (Mr. Croker), there would be little left whereon to build a free, impartial, and serious discussion. The hon. gent. had stated, in fact, a number of abstract positions, which never bad been, and never could be recognized by that house. He trusted the house would feel what the country had long and forcibly felt the importance of the investigation in which it had for a considerable time been so peculiarly and painfully engaged. He was surprised to hear
485484483482481Mr. Henry Martin,
 before the house proceeded to the other business of the night, wished to call their attention to a matter which affected their privileges. In whatever manner the Speeches of members might be reported out of doors, he was sure, that even in so humble an individual as himself, they ought not to he misrepresented. A Morning Paper, in stating the purport of what fell from him last night, said, that he "spoke in favour of the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer." Nothing could be further from his view of the subject, as those hon. gentlemen who had done him the honour of attending to him, would be ready to bear witness. The house were, indeed, at the time he spoke very impatient, and this, perhaps, with the noise that prevailed, and the disturbed state of the house, might prevent the person who reported him from hearing distinctly what he said. The line he took, so far from agreeing with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was to point out the necessity of putting the Duke of York upon his trial, and giving him an opportunity of defending himself. He had thought it necessary to say this much, in order to set himself right, but did not mean to take any ulterior proceedings, as all his purposes were attained by explaining the matter.Mr. Henry Smith,
537his536535534 said, he knew the dreadful
537his536535534Mr. Calcraft
boldly;480479ad captum vulgi,sentence;verdict,478"Why, truly, still, my Address!""Why, my Address.""My Address."477if he pleases.Just hints a fault, and hesitates dislike.Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike,equallytour d'addresseaddress.Address476Doctors475fact,474thenaddressresolvejudicialdistinct Resolutions.Address,form of our proceeding;473venialdegreesshadescorruption,triumphantassumed472politicalmoral471"most aggravated nature;"470accusation,otheronedefence,thisincontrovertibly false!469never saw her afterwards!she never saw his royal highness!th.th of March,favouras soon as it could be done.""incontrovertible"l.468l.this,otherl.,467herHeher466l.,"incontrovertiblethus stated,l.;l.;465bytodead!purchase;464purchasehisSandon,asknot obtained463remindeddinedbutler,very462l.levy.461consentpurchase,refuseIrish levies,wherehowinference460soi disantl.,"can think of nothing"l.459I shall think of nothing else."used very ill;one,l.l.,one,one!pretendsaccomplice,l.458refusalimmediateearly457l.:l.of his own accord,that the thing is done."three months'effected456one;"hand passibus æquis,"455454protegé.oftenhabit453hisCaptain Sutton,and educated."an orphan whose father lost his life in the service,she452gravamenfootboy?breach of faithfootboy451450us:unsworn449incontrovertible,reverse448whom he must have known to be meant,obliterateaddedpencil.447one paper,incontrovertible"irrelevant"446"trivial matters,""unimportant contradictions"very improperthis445refusedl.l.,before the expence of the establishmentl.l.l.l.before Sandon ever saw her;l.444l.foursixl.thenhalf a year,long time443that I had more interest than the Queen,l.442l.l.l.l.l.441l."l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.440particular friend of his."balancefull amountl.l.;the whole amount of the plate,l.l.;balance,439l.;forl.l.balancel.dramatis personœAnd break the word of promise;"To palter with us in a double sense,438acting:acted437stillthis momentl.very hourdeathblow436against her will and by force,reluctantdeniedcredible435the day before,hadthree,not434pique to others,acquaintances of yours;433432hishis431—Sir; I feel conscious that at a later hour I may be prevented, by the increase of an indisposition under which I labour, from being able to merit that attention from the house which I am at all times anxious to obtain, but now more particularly require, when I have to discuss
boldly;480479ad captum vulgi,sentence;verdict,478"Why, truly, still, my Address!""Why, my Address.""My Address."477if he pleases.Just hints a fault, and hesitates dislike.Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike,equallytour d'addresseaddress.Address476Doctors475fact,474thenaddressresolvejudicialdistinct Resolutions.Address,form of our proceeding;473venialdegreesshadescorruption,triumphantassumed472politicalmoral471"most aggravated nature;"470accusation,otheronedefence,thisincontrovertibly false!469never saw her afterwards!she never saw his royal highness!th.th of March,favouras soon as it could be done.""incontrovertible"l.468l.this,otherl.,467herHeher466l.,"incontrovertiblethus stated,l.;l.;465bytodead!purchase;464purchasehisSandon,asknot obtained463remindeddinedbutler,very462l.levy.461consentpurchase,refuseIrish levies,wherehowinference460soi disantl.,"can think of nothing"l.459I shall think of nothing else."used very ill;one,l.l.,one,one!pretendsaccomplice,l.458refusalimmediateearly457l.:l.of his own accord,that the thing is done."three months'effected456one;"hand passibus æquis,"455454protegé.oftenhabit453hisCaptain Sutton,and educated."an orphan whose father lost his life in the service,she452gravamenfootboy?breach of faithfootboy451450us:unsworn449incontrovertible,reverse448whom he must have known to be meant,obliterateaddedpencil.447one paper,incontrovertible"irrelevant"446"trivial matters,""unimportant contradictions"very improperthis445refusedl.l.,before the expence of the establishmentl.l.l.l.before Sandon ever saw her;l.444l.foursixl.thenhalf a year,long time443that I had more interest than the Queen,l.442l.l.l.l.l.441l."l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.440particular friend of his."balancefull amountl.l.;the whole amount of the plate,l.l.;balance,439l.;forl.l.balancel.dramatis personœAnd break the word of promise;"To palter with us in a double sense,438acting:acted437stillthis momentl.very hourdeathblow436against her will and by force,reluctantdeniedcredible435the day before,hadthree,not434pique to others,acquaintances of yours;433432hishis431Mr. Croker.
493492l.l.491 said, that he wished to offer a few words upon the evidence, but would not detain the house by going at any length into the detail. He wished to refer to some points, more particularly to the case of Kennel. It had been said, that the Duke of York applied to him (Mr. Long) for a place for that gentleman. He denied that any such application was made from that quarter; in the first instance application had certainly been made to him through sir Horace Mann, and the Duke of York, he believed, seconded it. An hon. gent, opposite had said, that this was the strongest proof of Mrs. Clarke's credibility, and slated farther, that the Duke of York must have procured sir Horace Mann, a respectable member of parliament, to lend his name to the transaction, and become an instrument of his corrupt designs. In this he (Mr. Long) could not concur. There was a letter, applying to the Duke of York, in favour of Mr. Kennet; and if his royal highness, not knowing the character of the man, should make application to arrive at a knowledge of his character, no criminality could attach to him upon that ground. The fact was, that sir Horace Mann was the person who applied for the situation, and never did he (Mr. Long) meet with a more assiduous, anxious, and importunate applicant. The two letters requesting Mr. Kennet to retain the Collectorship of Surinam, were one a copy of the other. Some hon. gentleman had said, that the testimony of Mr. Dowler was unimpeached; he would say, upon the contrary, that that gentleman came forward under circumstances of great suspicion. He said that he had seen Mrs. Clarke but once since his return at her own house, and once in the House of Commons; that the occasion upon which he waited upon her was, having seen her name in the papers, and wishing that he should not be brought forward upon that business. Now they had it in evidence, that he had seen her twice, and such a representation must appear to the judgment of every man to be meant to give a false colouring to the testi-
493492l.l.491Mr. Long
 moved for leave to bring in the Marine Mutiny Bill. Mr. Calcraft wished to know from the hon. gent. if it was meant to bring in a Bill, connected with the Compassionate List, for the Relief to the Widows of Naval Officers. Mr. Ward replied, that as far as the Office was concerned every thing was ready for that purpose. Leave was then given, and Mr. Ward brought in the Bill. On the motion for its being read a first time,Mr. R. Ward
 said, he could not be supposed to be so well acquainted with this subject as the hon. baronet, but there were some points on which even a civilian might point out an answer to the suggestions. Of the Marine Corps in general, he would premise no man could have a higher opinion than he had, or be more convinced of the services they had rendered, and the gallantry they had uniformly displayed. With respect to the increase of the Marine Artillery, he conceived that could not take place without increasing the force altogether, and converting the Marines into a land army. The hon. baronet had not only not censured, but had commended the present administration for adding to the number of their Field Officers, but complained that they were not yet as numerous in proportion as in the Royal Artillery. It ought to be remembered, however, that Marines on board of ships were not commanded by Field Officers, and as most of them were engaged in that species of service, it was not necessary to have so many Field Officers. As for the age of some of the Captains, he could only say, that as it was a service in which Officers rose by seniority, that could only depend on the length of life of those who preceded them on the list. Into the pay of the Pay Captains he would inquire, and was sure that if for any extraordinary labour, any recompence could be made to them without injury to the service, it would be instantly afforded.—The Bill was then read a first time.Mr. R. Ward
494 said, that though the original Address might not be carried, yet in conscience he would say from the evidence, that there was corruption in the extreme, personally attached to the Duke of York. Circumstantial evidence he built upon, and this he felt to be so much stronger than positive evidence, at least it had carried more men to the gallows. Had any doubt remained on his mind in the matter, the speech of his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread) would have removed it all. He was determined to oppose corruption, what-
494NorfolkMr. Coke (of Norfolk
bonâ fidepignusdereptum lacertis, aut digito male pertinaci,523522521520519omnia peccata erant paria.518517wink,516some515514513ad invidiam,512boyman.boy511510509amdixit,508507506505before getting'before goingwill;shall504503502Scire meum nihil est, nisi nee scire hoc sciat alter.501500499complete support,498opprobrium juris consultorum.497496495—I have abstained hitherto from delivering my sentiments to the house, because I felt that it was desirable for me to collect, in the course of the discussion, the opinions of as many different members as possible upon this important, delicate, and difficult question, before I ventured to offer any view of my own upon it. If I am now anxious to state my opinion upon the subject, it is because of the crisis of the proceeding at which the house has arrived; because of the mode of proceeding which is next proposed to be adopted; and because very erroneous opinions have been formed upon that mode of proceeding. But, before I enter into this consideration, it will first be necessary to consider what is the actual state of the question. Statements have been made to this house, rather than charges, which impute misconduct to the Commander in Chief. An inquiry at the bar of the house has been the consequence, and four modes of proceeding have subsequently been recommended. An Address to his majesty has been originally proposed, suggesting what measure should be adopted; then came the Resolution of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, acquitting his royal highness altogether; the third course is that proposed by the right hon. gent, upon the floor (Mr. Bathurst); and the last is the Address of the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes,) containing an opinion respecting the conduct of the Commander in Chief, and differing upon the whole from the original Address. With any one of these modes of proceeding I shall be able, if necessary, to concur, however I may have a preference of one over the other. I speak, of course, of the forms of proceeding, not of the opinions, by which they may be accompanied or intended to; be followed, with all of which it will not be possible to concur, because many, of them are in contradiction with each other.bonâ fidepignusdereptum lacertis, aut digito male pertinaci,523522521520519omnia peccata erant paria.518517wink,516some515514513ad invidiam,512boyman.boy511510509amdixit,508507506505before getting'before goingwill;shall504503502Scire meum nihil est, nisi nee scire hoc sciat alter.501500499complete support,498opprobrium juris consultorum.497496495Mr. Windham.
421 said, he was glad to have the opportunity which the introduction of this Bill gave him, to say a few words on that valuable corps, and strange to say, although it now amounted to more than a fourth of the Infantry of the Line, namely 32,000 men, yet its situation and its importance were scarcely known to the house.—He would, first, ask whether it was intended to continue the stoppage of one day's pay for Chelsea hospital? He next wished to make a few observations on the Royal Marine Artillery, which he believed to be in a very neglected state. It had been thought necessary to establish a Corps of this nature in 1804, and most important it might be if properly attended to. He conceived it ought to be augmented, and that every squadron of his Majesty's ships on foreign stations, should be furnished with a company of these Artillerymen and Officers. The advantages of such a measure, as with regard to our islands and colonial service, must be obvious to every thinking man, whether considered for offensive or defensive operations.—He regretted to learn that this Corps was not sufficiently instructed in the use of the Field Artillery, and he strongly recommended that a certain number of young men should be admitted to take their education at Woolwich Academy.—He next adverted to the slow progress of promotion in the Marine Corps. He stated, there were Officers now serving as Captains, who had entered the service in the American War: he conceived an in-
421Sir Charles Pole
 said, that on a question of such high importance, he could not think of giving a silent vote. He should therefore wish to give his reasons as concisely as possible for differing in opinion with his hon. friend who had just sat down; but at that late hour he would not trespass on the patience of the house, but would then move, That the house do adjourn. In doing this he hoped, nevertheless, the house would not be inclined to protract the debate, but would come to a speedy decision.Earl Temple
423 said, his feelings towards the right hon. the Speaker were paramount to every other consideration. But he conjured the house upon no other consideration to put off or delay coming to a' decision upon this question, upon which the eyes of the country were fixed, and in which the character of the illustrious indi-
423Earl Temple
l.540 observed that this was a subject which nearly concerned the very existence of the linen manufacture in Ireland. For although the flax which supplied that manufacture was almost wholly the growth of Ireland, yet Ireland was indebted for the seed to an annual supply from America, Holland, and the countries in the Baltic; the consequence of which was a considerable failure in the supply of the last year. It was desirable to obviate, if possible, such failures in future, by rendering Ireland independent of other countries for her supply, by encouraging as much as possible the saving of the home grown seed.
l.540Mr. Foster
539 pursuant to notice, rose for leave to bring in a Bill to complete to its full number the Militia of Great Britain. He said he felt it unnecessary to go then into any minute detail. He should therefore only possess the house of the object of his Bill: it was to replace the number of Militiamen rendered defective by the operation of the Bill of last Session, for allowing the soldiers of the Militia to volunteer into the line. The number already so transferred was about 23,000, and what he proposed was to raise in their place a number of men equal to one half of the whole quota for the country, namely, 24,000 men, within twelve months, from an early day to be named in the Bill. Eight months to be allowed for raising the men by bounties of 10 guineas per man, to be paid by the public; but at the end of that time, if the whole should not be raised, then a Bal-
539Lord Castlereagh,
Gascoyne then said, that he should defer the order of the day for calling over the house till near the time of its adjourning.—General GascoyneLord Folkestone
551550And smell of calumny.That you shall stifle in your own report.Will so your accusation overweigh,My vouch against you, and my place l' the state,My unsoiled name, th' austereness of my lifeWho will believe thee, Isabel?549548547 had so long delayed giving his opinion on this important question, being anxious to profit by the Opinion of others of more experience and knowledge than himself. He did not think, however, that the case was to be tried on legal evidence, or that the house was bound by the rules of a legal court grounded upon the nicety of technical distinctions. They were bound to form their opinion from the conviction of their own minds, and whatever positive proof was wanting, were to act from their own genuine feelings and the dictates of their consciences. He came forward upon that occasion with a mind as free from bias as an hon. and learned Judge who had spoken upon a former night, (Mr. Burton) or as any hon. member who heard him: if any bias did exist, it was not of that nature against which so many cautions had been pronounced; it was in favour of the Duke of York, and against the charges; but whatever influence that might have upon him in another case, the present was so strong against his royal highness that he felt it impossible to bring himself to pronounce him innocent upon all the charges. If he found that the case of corruption was not proved; that is, if he did not find it established by evidence, that the Duke of York had actually pocketed the money, but yet had strong reasons for believing that he was under an influence, incompatible with the discharge of his duty, he did not feel himself under an obligation to separate such accusations; they were links of the same chain. After the evidence, therefore, which had been given at the bar of that house, and sifted as it had been in his opinion much too far, it was impossible for him to say that the Duke of York was innocent. He agreed entirely with the noble lord who had just sat down, that many of the charges had not been sufficiently made out, and that it was necessary to connect those that were made out with the office of the Commander in Chief. If his royal highness as Commander in Chief, condescended to make application to another department of the government, because he was to receive an accommodation for the disposal of a place in the gift of that other department, it was enough to satisfy his mind. Several opinions had been given upon the evidence brought before them, particularly that of Mrs. Clarke, the principal witness. Some said that all she uttered was true, and should be credited; others, that all was false, and should be disbelieved; but there were some
551550And smell of calumny.That you shall stifle in your own report.Will so your accusation overweigh,My vouch against you, and my place l' the state,My unsoiled name, th' austereness of my lifeWho will believe thee, Isabel?549548547Lord Stanley
569568567566565564 said, he would not unnecessarily detain the house by replying to many of the arguments of the hon. baronet; at the same time, he was ready to allow, that the alteration in the resolution of his right hon. friend, proposed by that
569568567566565564The Hon. Mr. Ryder
578 (of Scotland), who rose amidst a tumultuous cry of "Question! question!" began with observing that he was well aware of the just impatience of the house to come to a vote; but he hoped for their indulgence for a few minutes. He seldom rose in that house, and never but when impelled by a sense of duty. He felt himself called on to give an opinion on this important question. With all the attention that he had been able to pay to the evidence, the conclusion which he drew from it was, that his royal highness had neither been guilty of corruption, nor criminal participation, nor connivance; and that he had in no one instance abused the power he possessed as Commander in Chief, of giving away military commissions. This was a conviction that he derived from a minute, unprejudiced, and conscientious review of the different charges, and the evidence by which they were supported. [The house became here so clamourous for the
578The Lord Advocate
632they631630629so—soupçonnés détre suspectscriminalcorpus delicti628627if626they625York could be supposedhardly624623. Sir, the hon. gentleman has interrupted me, perhaps not improperly. I feel no resentment for the interruption. Unquestionably the argument is one not easy to manage in perfectly strict conformity to the rules and orders of the house. The right hon. gent, has a right to enforce those orders: but then I entreat the house to observe in what a situation he places me. This Address, indeed both Addresses, and the mode of proceeding by Address, have been defended on the ground that it was proper to proceed in the manner least injurious to the feelings of the King. The Addresses themselves contain this sentiment; The supporters of the Addresses have recommended the adoption of them on this ground. But when I proceed to examine the truth of the statement on the faith of which we are called upon to vote; when I presume to enquire how far the Address is consistent with the professed purpose of those who framed it; how far they have executed their own intention, and secured their own object; I am stopped by the right hon. gentleman, who tells me that I
632they631630629so—soupçonnés détre suspectscriminalcorpus delicti628627if626they625York could be supposedhardly624623Mr. Canning
634633 amidst a violent cry of "question", and "spoke", from every part of the house, rose to speak in explanation, and addressing the Speaker, said: I shall not detain the house many minutes; but, Sir, the personal allusions that have been made by the right hon. gent, who has just sat down, I find it impossible to pass over in silence. In an early part of the debate this night, I endeavoured to set him right with respect to the motive by which I have been uniformly actuated in my conduct on
634633Lord Folkestone,
639638l.637636635 Although desirous, Sir, of delivering my sentiments on this most important subject at an earlier period, I have hitherto forborne to present myself to the house, from the anxiety manifested by so many gentlemen to take a part in the debate; and at this late hour, I shall not think of troubling the house at any length; but there are some points in this important question, which I cannot pass over in silence, and to which I request the short attention of the house. Before I proceed to the delivery of my opinion on the case under consideration, I cannot but take the opportunity of expressing my satisfaction at the very judicious speech with which this motion was brought forward, and in which there was a total absence of personality; with a very manifest and prominent desire of entering into a calm, cool, and dispassionate consideration of the question. Indeed, I do hope and trust, that it is out of the power of any person, either within or without this house, to impute the smallest appearance of party spirit to the manner in which this important question has been discussed. The right hon. gent, who spoke last (Mr. Canning), assumes it as a position, that it is necessary to proceed by Resolutions instead of an Address, in justice to the Duke of York; because this house ought to come to a particular decision on the accusation. Now, on what principle this argument is founded, in a case in which the conduct of a public officer of such high consideration is implicated—where he has found precedent, or principle for proceeding by Resolutions rather than by an Address, I do profess I am totally at a loss to comprehend. No charge whatever is made in this case, which is merely a corn-plaint made by a member of this house with relation to the conduct of a public officer; and the house, as I conceive, is perfectly at liberty to adopt what form of proceeding it
639638l.637636635Mr. Ponsonby.
622621620619did618"Dwells such a mighty rage in little men?"617becausedid616Thatnotpart;remaindersayingsaidswear:say,an oathnot on oath,615remainderthe partunswornwhole;that partperjury,upon cath;at the bar of the House of Commons,614l.i. e.613612611that610prince?peerbecause609has608corpus delicti607privilegium;606lumping605expedientprudentialexpedientprudentin prudence,604hisgregarious603them,theirpracticesoriginalnotnot.602not meanheNo.601willWhosewhomhaverecord?recordrecord?record,record?600Record599598Is597596(Mr. Wilberforce again intimated dissent)(Mr. Wither-force intimated dissent)595594 rose and spoke as follows: —However I may differ on many points from my lion, friend (Mr. Wilberforce), who has last addressed the house, I cordially agree with him in the sentiment which lie expressed at the conclusion of his speech, that in the vote to be given this night the character of this house is deeply implicated. And if I have taken a different view, from that which he has taken, of the nature of the vote, in which this house ought to agree, I trust my hon. friend will believe that, in my view of such a subject, I am guided equally with himself, by a sense of what appears to me to be most consistent with the character of the House of Commons, and with the tit discharge of its duty to the Country. I have listened with the most patient attention to the whole of this debate; distinguished as it has been not more by the unexampled length to which it has been protracted, than by the ability with which it has been conducted on all sides: and, having yet taken no part in the discussion, I may venture without impropriety to say, that whatever the decision of the House may be, the attention with which the question has been discussed cannot but be as satisfactory to the country, as it is creditable to the house itself. I have deferred till this late period of the debate taking any part in the discussion, because I was desirous of collecting the opinions which had been formed by other members, and of comparing my own judgment with the result of their de-
622621620619did618"Dwells such a mighty rage in little men?"617becausedid616Thatnotpart;remaindersayingsaidswear:say,an oathnot on oath,615remainderthe partunswornwhole;that partperjury,upon cath;at the bar of the House of Commons,614l.i. e.613612611that610prince?peerbecause609has608corpus delicti607privilegium;606lumping605expedientprudentialexpedientprudentin prudence,604hisgregarious603them,theirpracticesoriginalnotnot.602not meanheNo.601willWhosewhomhaverecord?recordrecord?record,record?600Record599598Is597596(Mr. Wilberforce again intimated dissent)(Mr. Wither-force intimated dissent)595594Mr. Secretary Canning
 said he rose to call the right hon. gentleman to order, conceiving he was using the King's name to influence the house.Mr. Tierney
559558handsomely557556555ral554gene-falsehood.artifice553boundknew?suspectedknownsuspectedknowledge,hardly552—I cannot agree with the noble lord who has just sat down, that his royal highness's letter has placed the house in so distressing a situation of restraint. It may sharpen the pain of his royal highness's own feelings, in case he should be found guilty; but I have not observed it has softened the asperity of the noble lord's remarks under the gallery (lord Folkestone) nor damped the vehemence of the hon. gent.'s declamatory eloquence upon the floor, (Mr. Whitbread) nor has it influenced the opinion of the noble lord himself, unless it could be supposed to have drawn from him the very candid declaration at the close, that he would not impute to his royal highness the acts of Mrs. Clarke after the cessation of all intercourse between them.—From the course of argument adopted by several gentlemen, I should think, the true nature of the question is by no means understood. The Address on which we are now to vote declares, that there is no ground on which
559558handsomely557556555ral554gene-falsehood.artifice553boundknew?suspectedknownsuspectedknowledge,hardly552Mr. Leycester.
 rose to correct a misstatement made as he understood, in some of the public prints, of a passage in his speech on a former night, respecting the evidence before the house, in the case of the Duke of York, and in which he was represented to have said that a letter was addressed to Mrs. Clarke by the Archbishop of Tuam, which representation, he understood, had considerably hurt the feelings of the rev. prelate's friends; he begged, however, to relieve them from any anxiety on that account, so far as he was concerned, by declaring that he certainly had never made use of any such expression. What he had said was only that in which he was borne out by the evidence; namely, that a letter written by the archbishop of Tuam, respecting Dr. O'Meara, was found in the possession of Mrs. Clarke, but it was addressed to Dr. O'Meara himself. He did not mean to make any complaint against the printer for this inaccuracy, which might have easily occurred without the slightest intention: he was only surprized at the accuracy with which the Reports of the proceedings of the house were generally given.Mr. Whitbread
593592591590589588587586l.585584583582581580579 then rose, and began by stating, that he deferred to the latest opportunity his intention of offering to the house his sentiments on the present most important question; because he confessed, that it was his uniform and anxious wish to hear all that might be said upon the subject upon either side, according to the various views that different minds might be severally disposed to take of it, before he ventured to state his opinion, that he might see it in every light, and in every shape, that it could, perhaps, possibly appear in. With this view he had, from the very commencement of this discussion down to that moment, devoted his fixed and undivided attention to every part as it passed successively under his observation, both with respect to the evidence, and the variety of commentary that evidence had called forth; because it was his wish, as it unquestionably was his duty, to avail himself of every possible advantage, that could enable him to come ultimately to an opinion at once impartial, and correct. And in the first place, before he proceeded to observe upon the case itself, he could not help adverting to the impression he felt at the time when the charges were first brought forward. Here he must frankly confess, whatever may be the shame of the acknowledgement, that he had his full share in participating in those prejudices in favour of the accused which had been felt and acknowledged by others; for the charges did appear to him to be so extremely improbable, that the hon. member who had originated them must forgive him when he said, that he not only felt it extremely difficult to believe that they were founded in fact, but was almost satisfied that they could not be substantiated. The result, however, of the investigation, upon his mind, had been such as to shew, that though he could not altogether get rid of those prejudices, he had not suffered them to interfere so far as to bias his affections, or influence his judgment. In the view which he took of the question, it appeared obviously to divide itself into two parts. The first and grand one was, whether the Duke of York had been guilty of corruption, or of participation in the corruption of others, or of criminal connivance at that corruption, and in what degree. The next was, as to the course, which, as members of that house, it would be proper for them to resort to, upon a full consideration of all the matters and practices
593592591590589588587586l.585584583582581580579Mr. Wilberforce
563l.562561560 rose, amidst a considerable cry of "question! question!" and trusted that the house would for a short time indulge him with their attention, as it was far from his wish to occupy their time unnecessarily. The reason he had not presented himself earlier in the debate, was, because he had been wailing to see whether any of those gentlemen, to whose knowledge and experience he looked up, would take
563l.562561560Sir T. Turton
545544543l.l.542541 said, that on so important a question, he had felt it his duty to the public to exert himself, to come to a deliberate opinion according to the best of his ability and judgment, without being influenced by party prejudice, or any of those clamours or considerations, which, he had heard from the other side of the house, were likely to have an effect on the question. He had not formed his opinion from
545544543l.l.542541Lord Milton
577576575574573572571570 next rose, amidst loud cries of question! question! He began by observing, that he had withheld his opinion on this most important subject, until thus late in the debate, because it was precisely that kind of question on which it was impossible to form a judgment without the most ample discussion. After having heard the different bearings of the evidence sifted and examined by persons of great talents and acquirements, he thought that he would be the better able to bring his mind to a decision on this great subject, one perhaps as important as ever engaged the attention of parliament.—It was a question wholly unconnected with party feelings and party prejudices; and however at other times he might be proud to consider himself as attached to a party, this was an occasion on which he could allow no influence of connections, no party consideration to bias his decision. He confessed that he had never risen with feelings of such real anxiety and pain, as those by which he was then opprest. The eyes of the nation were stedfastly fixed on the house of commons at that moment, and the fate of the country might eventually depend upon their decision. The house had not to determine in what family the right of the crown should be vested; they had not to determine by what constitution the people would best be governed: their attachment to the family in possession of the right to the crown was daily increased by their encreasing affection for the virtuous and venerable individual, by whom the throne was filled; their attachment to the existing sonstitution was daily increased and clearly
577576575574573572571570Earl Temple
 said, it was not his intention to enter at present into this subject, while a business of so great importance was before the house. He wished, however, that an option should be afforded to his majesty of completing the Militia not only in case of an emergency, but at any time, he might think proper.Earl Temple
 considered it important to have the point, with respect to the contributions of the Royal Marines to Chelsea, fully sifted, as there was an unfavourable impression abroad on that subject.Mr. Hutchinson
 suggested the propriety of appointing a distinct Compassionate List and Widows' Fund for the Marines. He expressed, also, a desire, that the clause which seemed to admit of the construction of which his hon. friend (sir C. Pole) complained, ought to be immediately amended.Mr. Calcraft
645 rose to make some observations on what had fallen from an hon. bait, (sir C. Pole) on a former evening, respecting the increase of emolument to Pay-Captains of Marines, and some new naval regulations. The hon. bart. had slated that their labours and compensation were not at all proportionate. But the hon. bart., perhaps, did not know that the persons selected for such situations, were generally men who were unfit for other service. Their duties were by no means burthensome. It was not required that a Pay-Captain of Marines should serve afloat, or even aboard. The only case in which their attendance on board was required was, whenever courts martial took place. Under such circumstances he did not imagine the provision made for those officers was at all defective. With respect to the deductions from the pay of Marine Officers, they were applied, he said, to Chelsea Hospital, and the same benefits resulted to the officers of Marines, as to the Officers of the Army from such application. Whatever deduction was made from the pay of Marine Privates, was applied to Greenwich Hospital, and they were benefitted in the same manner by it as the Navy. Some stoppage in a Marine officer's pay was given generally to the Commissioners
645Mr. Robert Ward
646 said it was the intention of the present Board of Admiralty to afford to the Marine Corps every practicable and reasonable indulgence. But there was a mistake with respect to the stoppages from the pay of Marine Officers in general for the Widow's Fund. No such stoppages were now made but from officers who retired on full pay; and the widows of the Marine Officers received their pensions at the War Office, paid by the public. With respect to the situation of the Pay Captains, he begged leave to refer the hon. bart. to a Petition presented by those very Officers to the Admiralty, when he himself was at that Board, praying for this very allowance, which the hon. bart. now sought to obtain for them, and the answer then given to their petition was, that the birth was a pretty good one, and it was very desirable it should continue to exist; but if they did not like it with full pay, and ex-
646Mr. Wellesley Pole
 said, if the hon. gent, had given this explanation as to the stoppages of pay before, it would have altered his own view of the subject. But he still held the same opinion with respect to the situation of the Pay Captains. He was well informed they had a regular ledger account to keep with every man and boy in the Marine service, for which they had no remuneration, although the Captains of Marine Artillery, for only paying their own companies, had 2s. per day additional pay. Besides those old officers, in any branch of the service, would have been entitled to majorities, and many of them now would have been old field officers. Any advantage, therefore, which could be given them, without great expence to the public, ought not to be witheld from a brave class of men, whose existence was scarcely known to their country except by their brilliant services in her cause.Sir Charles Pole
 denied any recollection of such an application as that alluded to by the hon. member (Mr. W. Pole); at all events, he was perfectly certain, that during the whole time he was at the Admiralty, he never did give an offensive answer to any application, made either by an individual, or by any description of persons. There was nothing he considered more disgraceful than such conduct on the part of any man in office.Sir Charles Pole
 observed, that, as the original question had been disposed of by the decision, that the house should proceed by Resolution rather than by Address, he proposed, if there were no difference of opinion, to withdraw his first Resolution, as he before stated, in order to introduce an Amendment, the main object of which would be to omit the word Charges, no one now appearing to press any charges of personal corruption or criminal connivance against the Duke of York. If, however, there was to be any debate upon that point, it might be gone into upon the second Resolution.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was aware, that any gentleman was at liberty to deliver his sentiments upon this subject, as well in this as in any subsequent stage of the proceeding. It was, however, seldom denied to any member to withdraw any proposition he might have submitted, in order to correct a mistake, or supply an omission; such a denial was certainly not usual in parliamentary practice. The object of his proposed Amendment was, after a narrative of the case as it appeared before the house, to add somewhat to this effect; "That the house, having appointed a Committee to examine into the Conduct of his royal highness the Duke of York upon the subject of military promotions, and the disposal of commissions in the army, had fully considered and carefully investigated the several statements in evidence before it, relative to personal corruption, or criminal connivance at corruption, on the part of the Duke of York, and finds it expedient to pronounce a distinct opinion upon the truth or falsehood of these imputations; and is therefore of opinion that there is no foundation for imputing personal corruption or criminal connivance to his royal highness."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that it should be well understood, that if the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was prepared to withdraw his Resolution, it would be then competent for any honourable member to propose to whatever was to be substituted in place of that Resolution, an Amendment of any kind, proposing any thing short of a censure for corruption; or if the Resolution of his right hon. friend was to be persisted in, he hoped he should then be allowed to move the Amendment he had already taken occasion to read to the house. He did not think that it was altogether fair to omit the word "charges" in the Resolution, after the right hon. gent. had used it in his argument; for though some of the graver kind might be truly said to be abandoned, still he thought there were others which could not be overlooked, and to which it was the object of his amendment to have reference. He could not conceive, why, when the public was under a mistake as to the actual state of their proceedings, the house should not clear up that mistake by coming to some specific conclusion. The right hon. member then urged the advantage of burthening the house with as few divisions as possible, and said that now the right honourable gentleman's Resolution was to be withdrawn, the house would be open to the proposition which he had taken the liberty to state to the house on a former night.Mr. Bathurst
661 (knight of Kerry) from the importance of the question before the house, should not feel satisfied with himself, if he gave a silent vote on the occasion. No hon. member of that house could stand clearer of any connection with the royal family than himself, jet no person would more keenly feel for the degradation of any part of that family than he should; but there was a duty which he owed to the public, and that duty obliged him to say, that the royal Duke did not appear to stand, by any means, clear of the charge of connivance, if not of corruption. He had felt it his duty to vote for both the Addresses; but in doing so, he declared that no hon. member who had voted in either of the Majorities against those Addresses could possibly have felt greater pain than he would at the disgrace or degradation of any branch of the illustrious family to which the royal Duke belonged. He objected to the Resolution of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because it was professedly to end in an Address, supposing he had no objection to the matter contained in that Resolution. He had voted for the Addresses, because he approved of the matter, though he thought an Address was not the most desirable mode of proceeding, and that for two reasons; one, that he did not think that house was to call in the aid of the crown to do that which they were sufficient to do themselves; and another was, that an Address on such a subject did not appear to him to be the best mode of consulting the feelings of a sovereign and a father; yet even with those disadvantages he was compelled to vote for the Addresses in preference to the Resolutions of the right hon. gentleman. As to all that had been said with respect to out-door influence, he was far from being disposed ever to let any popular cry have any undue influence on his vote in that house. But however he would resist the popular impression, he could not remain insensible to the general feeling of the nation, and therefore disliked the Resolutions that were to follow the first of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer because, if adopted, they would disappoint the expectations of the public. He lamented the mode of proceeding which had been adopted, as it had brought matters of great scandal forward, which had an effect upon the public mind, and obliged the house to come to a decision on what ought never to have been brought under their cog-
661Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
662 rose, and spoke nearly to the following effect: Sir; After the able and ample manner in which the present business has been already discussed, I am most unwilling to trespass on the patience of the house; but the peculiarity of my situation will, I trust, plead my excuse, and gain me your indulgence, while I state shortly what I have felt sensibly upon the present most important question. It gives me great satisfaction to hear that the army has been in such a state of progressive improvement since his royal highness the Duke of York assumed the chief command, and I am glad to be enabled to bear my testimony to the many wise and salutary regulations which have been introduced into the army under the auspices of the Commander in Chief. I shall, at all times, have great pleasure in joining in all encomiums paid to that royal person as far as I believe such encomiums to be just and merited. This is as much my duty, as it is my inclination; for I am among the many who have reason to be thankful to his royal highness for personal favours, and for more than a merited portion of his consideration, and therefore it was with deep and heartfelt regret that I was compelled to think of him, as I must have thought, when I voted as I did vote. But, Sir, all such considerations must necessarily yield to that imperious sense of public duty, which, in this place, is our first duty. Deciding as I have done, so opposite to my original wishes, and what adds to my regret, so opposite to the sentiments of my brother officers, I have, however, not decided hastily. I have read the evidence with care, with an anxious wish to come at the truth, lie where or against whom it might. I have weighed it with mature deliberation — listened to the long-and various commentaries upon it with attention, and trust I may now venture to say, that I have decided with impartiality. It is not my intention, Sir, to offer any observation now upon that evidence, it has been already in too able hands to leave any thing for me to say, but the impression it has made on my mind is, that the Duke of York is extremely culpable. Throughout the country a cloud of suspicion has been collecting, and it has settled upon his character; while that cloud
662General Ferguson
 said, he had never received any favours from his royal highness, but he could not help thinking that if the army were to lose him as Commander in Chief, it would experience a loss almost irreparable; any resolution therefore that went to justify his royal highness in the eyes of the public should have his support.Sir John Mowbray
665664663 then desired to know, whether it was the pleasure of the house that his motion should be withdrawn? Although he rather wished to have it withdrawn, yet he begged not to be understood as unreasonably pertinacious against its being negatived. He requested it might be recollected that there was some advantage in withdrawing it, because it might be supposed to contain an idea which he did not intend to convey. His reason was this, that when he first made the proposition, it was misunderstood, and he had endeavoured to explain and take away the obnoxious part the moment he was aware of the circumstance. It was therefore to prevent misrepresentation that he was anxious to withdraw his motion altogether; if he was allowed to withdraw it, he would
665664663The Chancellor of the Exchequer
669668667666 hoped that the house would allow him to state the constitutional doctrine respecting the course of its proceedings, which was to be found in the records of parliament. He agreed that
669668667666The Hon. Wm. Henry Lyttleton
 argued in support of the motion of his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and contended, that there was nothing in the evidence, which had been taken at the bar during the whole of this arduous investigation, that could in the slightest degree fix his royal highness the Duke of York, either with corruption, participation of corruption, or criminal connivance at corruption. (Loud coughing.)Mr. Hawkins Browne
 rose, amidst loud calls for the question. He assured the house he would not detain them long; he did not see one thing to substantiate the charge of corruption: from the bottom of his heart he assured them, in the most solemn manner, that he did not believe his royal highness guilty of corruption. (Here the hon. gentleman was interrupted by loud and reiterated cries of "question! question!") The hon. gentleman concluded, as he had begun, with acquitting the Duke of York of corruption—an impression which he had derived from a most diligent and attentive examination of the vast mass of evidence before the house.Mr. Herbert
 said, that the full conviction on his mind, after the most diligent perusal and consideration of the evidence, was, that it would not warrant an opinion that the Duke of York was guilty of corruption, or of participation in corruption, or connivance in corrupt practices. After declaring this to be their opinion, as he thought the house must do, it would he deserting their duty if they did not come to a decision upon the other matters developed in the course of the investigation. There were two parties before the house, the Duke of York and the country, and justice must be rendered to both. They were called on, in justice to the Duke of York and to the public, to pronounce a sentence upon him for the crimes committed against society.Mr. Lockhart
 when he gave his vote, disclaimed being influenced by popular opinion; and to prove his sincerity in this respect, stated an instance where he, though representing a very large body, voted against their wishes, and yet was placed on the ensuing election high above his competitors. He supported the Amendment.Mr. Dickenson,
676675 began by begging the permission of the house, to state the motives that had influenced, and continued to influence his conduct, in these most important discussions. He was too sensible of the value of their time to obstrude himself for more than a few minutes upon their attention: he said, that without further preface, he had no hesitation in declaring, that from the most attentive consideration, he had been able to give to the evidence upon the table, in his opinion the accusation of personal corruption, or of criminal connivance in corrupt practices, had not been proved against the Commander in Chief.— He would state very shortly and distinctly the reasons upon which he had arrived at that conclusion.—He professed himself unable to rely upon the testimony of the principal evidence adduced in support of the accusation: he did not insist solely upon the circumstance of Mrs. Clarke appearing
676675Lord Morpeth
677 in rising to address the house, said, that he did so not through arrogance, or any desire to trespass much on the time of the house by prolonging a debate, which had been already so long protracted. He strongly deprecated what had gone abroad with respect to insinuations said to be made in the house, that the accusation was not so much directed against the Duke of York as Commander in Chief, as a branch of a foul Conspiracy against the illustrious family upon the throne. This was, he said, a false and mischievous assertion, and he trusted would be disregard-
677Mr. Hanbury Tracey,
 expressed his hope that the house would not concur in the motion of the noble lord, though at the same time, after the protracted debates that had taken place, it was not surprising if some degree of impatience had been shewn to come to a decision.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 trusted, that after the diligence and ability with which the debate had been hitherto conducted, the house would not, at its close, shew to the country and to the world, that it would not persevere in the same temper which had been, up to that moment, observed in the discussion. The question then before the house was the most important branch, though not the whole of the case; but unless the house should entertain it with patience, they would not get out of the business with the same credit to which their past proceedings were entitled. The motion of the noble lord he must observe, had not arisen from any wish to interrupt the discussion; but had been forced upon him by the impatience of the house; he should not therefore propose to negative that motion, as he honed the noble lord would with draw it, and then he trusted that the house would pay that attention to the sentiments of gentlemen who might be disposed to take a part in the debate, which the importance of the subject merited.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in allusion to the manner in which the Resolution was worded, stated it as his opinion that without some explanation, it might go forth to the public as conveying an insiduous censure upon the hon. gentleman who brought forward these charges against the Commander in Chief; and he therefore conceived it right to require a distinct avowal, from the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon that point. For, although inclined to vote for the Resolution, on account of the doubtful nature of many parts of the testimony, yet he would maintain, that sufficient matter existed on the face of the evidence to justify the bringing forward these charges; and it was his decided conviction, that in so doing the hon. gentleman had only done his duty by the house and by the country.Sir Charles Merrick Burrell,
 observed, that he had altered the Resolution now before the house, for the purpose of meeting the ideas of some of his hon. friends, who were desirous to avoid any words which might tend to cast any reflection on the hon. gentleman who originally instituted this Inquiry; but after the present Resolution should be carried, if carried, there was nothing to hinder the house from coming to any Resolution it might think proper, declarative of its disapprobation of the influence of Mrs. Clarke with the Commander in Chief.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
694693692 rose to reply to some observations that had fallen from a noble lord opposite to him (Petty). He began by observing, that lie should not wonder if the same impatience that had been previously expressed by the house, should be renewed against him; but he hoped he should be excused for pressing himself again upon the notice of the house, feeling that he could not chuse but reply, in explanation, to some remarks made by the noble lord to whom he had alluded. That noble lord had accused him of an intention to entrap the house by the motion lie had made, inasmuch as he had mixed considerations in that motion totally, distinct and separate. He did not, he said, expect to meet reproach for having conformed to that which he considered to be more consonant to the general feelings of the house. The hon. gent, too (Mr. Whit-bread) seemed to wish the alteration he had made, and he had done it partly at his request, and partly as it went to express more satisfactorily and clearly the sentiment he had from the commencement wished to convey. But the noble lord had said, as the motion went to acquit his royal highness, as well of connivance as corruption, it had placed him in a situation of great embarrassment and difficulty, and that he should be obliged to give a vote contrary to his feelings. Now if that noble lord would only attend to what he had to offer, he would see that the grounds of his objection to the motion as submitted, were no grounds at all, but had originated in a misunderstanding. The noble lord felt that he could not consistently say that there were no grounds for supposing his royal highness was not to a degree cognizant of those practices, which had been proved to exist. The motion did not call upon him to make that declaration, as it only said there were no grounds for charging his royal highness with corrupt participation and connivance. The noble lord too seemed to think, that if the word sufficient had been introduced, it would have qualified the term no grounds, and might have insured the votes of those gentlemen who thought with him. For his own part, he conceived that to be a distinction without a difference, as to say there were no grounds, meant that there were no
694693692The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought himself called upon to say a few words respecting the meeting of general officers to which the hon. gent, had alluded. There was some foundation for the statement of the hon. gent, but it was only this, that there existed in this town a club of military gentlemen, of which he was an unworthy member. That club had lately met; and at the meeting, some conversation had arisen respecting the conduct of the Duke of York as commander in chief. The conversation turned upon the services rendered by his royal highness to the army; and the members of the club thought themselves bound in gratitude to testify to his royal highness the high sense they enterlained of the eminent advantages which the army had derived from his able administration of the military affairs of the country. These sentiments they bad resolved to express to his royal highness in the form of an Address, but their proceedings in this respect had no reference whatever to the circumstances of the present moment, or to what was now passing in that house, nor was it ever intended that the Address should have been presented till after the proceedings in that house should have closed.The Secretary at War
 was of opinion that the authority of that house should be maintained; and that if any meeting of general officers, such as that described by the lion. gent, had taken place, it could not be approved of; on the contrary, by adopting improper means, it could only tend to place the cause of the Duke of York in a bad light, and counteract that which it was no doubt their real intention to promote.Mr. Secretary Canning
 expressed a disposition to postpone it till Monday, on account of the lateness of the hour, and the impatience of the house; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer urged the adjournment of it. Mr. Whitbread, Mr. Tierney, and others, insisted that the motion of Mr. Bathurst ought at least to be made, and that the house might then adjourn; by which means it would be made manifest on the Journals that the house had not come to a conclusion on the general subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had already moved the Order of the Day, refused to withdraw his motion, and observed that as he should propose a call of the house on Monday, it would sufficiently appear that the deliberations on the subject had not come to a conclusion.Mr. Bathurst
712 intimated, that a certain event might possibly take place before the house should meet again; and that
712Mr. Hutchinson
 observed, that it would become the house to consult its own dignity by a more decorous attention to the business under consideration.The Speaker
 supported the Amendment.Lord Archibald Hamilton
 rose, in consequence of the manner in which the last speaker had been treated, to call the house of commons to order. From the palpable indisposition which the house manifested to discharge its duty that night, he thought it would be useless to continue the discussion, and therefore moved, that the house do now adjourn. Upon the Question being put,Lord H. Petty
 had no objection to withdraw his motion, if the house was disposed to attend with patience and temper to the discussion.Lord H. Petty
690689"And come to short conclusions at a jump.""Gulp down reasons whole and in a lump,688687 thought that it was right for those, who felt it necessary to state the reasons upon which they voted, to do so before the house should proceed to the first division. Whatever differences of opinion might exist on other subjects, he was sure there could be in that house but one sentiment of attachment towards the illustrious family upon the throne, upon every principle of reason, every memory of the past, and every hope of liberty hereafter in these realms. It was with extreme anxiety therefore, that he dissented from the proposition of the right hon. gentleman: it was painful to him to be compelled to give a negative, where it would be most gratifying to him to give his support. It. was to explain the grounds upon which he was induced to give his negative to the proposition of the right hon. gentleman that he had risen. The proceeding upon the subject under consideration had been repeatedly described by the right hon. gentleman and others, but most erroneously, as a judicial proceeding. This was an opinion inconsistent with parliamentary usage, and not authorised by the forms, the practice, or the constitution of parliament. It was absolutely impossible for that house to resort to any juridical proceeding, or to bring this question to a
690689"And come to short conclusions at a jump.""Gulp down reasons whole and in a lump,688687Lord H. Petty
 paid a tribute of applause to the fair and manly manifestation of his opinion by the gallant general. It was the general opinion of the house that the right hon. gent.'s motion was unnecessary, if not objectionable; and the only difference was, whether it should be negatived or withdrawn. He could not consent to put the special circumstances of this case upon the records of the house in official characters; the house was to look to nothing but official duties; and never to be influenced by personal considerations. He objected therefore, to the motion of the right hon. gent., as being a foundation for limiting and confining their future views of the subject, and trusted, that the house in official characters would recognize nothing but the official character, without looking beyond that to find the son of a king, or any other person. He did not object to the motion being withdrawn, but would rather wish it to be negatived.Lord H. Petty
 observed, that he should not now go into the subject, but said he could not approve that a line should be chalked out by his majesty's ministers, as to what should now be the course of proceeding adopted by that house. Certain allegations or charges had been brought before them, and they knew best in what manner it would be fitting to dispose of them. With regard to the existence of abuses and corrupt practices, no man in; that house could have a rational doubt upon his mind, and it was equally true that the Duke of York, whether knowing or not knowing, was an accessary to those abuses, because they happened where he ought to have had a paramount controul. Now, it was by no means material to the question of the existence of abuses that the Duke of York was innocent of them; still their existence was more than enough to give the country a right to demand and expect that the house should look to those abuses, and speedily and efficiently remedy them. Some of the good old practices of parliament were getting into disuse: formerly it was the custom to propose, that, previous to any Vote of Supply, that house should inquire into the State of the Nation, and redress its grievances. He wished, if that good old custom was not to be revived, at least that its principle would, in the present instance, be applied; and that the house would think with him, that the speedily remedying the gross public abuses which had prevailed, was an object than which none demanded a prior investigation. Yet when abuses were in the present instance proved to exist, they were called on to do justice to the Duke as a paramount duty; but sent there, as they were, for the people, was there any subject, however exalted, that had any paramount claim on them in particular more than another?Lord William Russell
 rose, merely for the purpose of explaining the grounds on which lie bad voted. It was with the greatest regret that he felt himself obliged to give a vote against any branch of the royal family, but an imperious sense of duty compelled him to declare, that he thought enough had been proved at the bar to justify the original Address.Mr. C. Adams
 (Solicitor General for Scotland) insisted that there was not only no proof of corrupt participation on the part of his royal highness, but no foundation whatever for imputing connivance. When he spoke of connivance, he meant of criminal connivance, as he could see none of those distinctions that had been drawn; and if the house differed with him on that head, and were of opinion that his royal highness had connived, gentlemen ought not to shut their eyes to the fact, but impeach the royal Duke at the bar of the house of lords. He would not admit that the cases of O'Meara, general Clavering, and major Tonyn, suggested proofs of that connivance, and, thinking so, he should vote for the motion of his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he would insist was a clear and distinct proposition, and free from any supposed ambiguity.Mr. Boyle
 said he was a member of the military club which had been alluded to, but he had never heard any thing of their intention to address the Commander in Chief till that instant.General Phipps
691 said, he was convinced that there was no evidence to justify a conclusion of corruption or connivance, and as such he should vote for the original motion; at
691Mr. Loveden
pass them uncensured"forbear"681to for bear, to pass uncensured."to connive"any wished to express his concurrence, in a great part of that which had fallen from the last speaker (Mr. Bankes) connivance at that which was criminal, could not but be also criminal; and yet personal corruption, or participation in corruption, were crimes of a deeper die than some of those degrees in which a connivance at the commission of them might exist. The vote they were called upon to give confounded all these offences; and while they were asked to acquit the Duke of York of personal corruption and participation, they were at the same time called upon to declare him innocent of pass them uncensured"forbear"681to for bear, to pass uncensured."to connive"anyMr. Hibbert
 should not vote for the Amendment of the hon. bart. as he was not prepared to go the length of stating, that there were grounds for charging personal corruption upon his royal highness. It had been his intention, if he could have obtained a hearing earlier, to have proposed as an Amendment, to separate the propositions of the Resolution respecting corruption and connivance. The situation in which they were placed was painful, but it would be some mitigation of that pain, if these two points were separated. He should with pleasure vote for the acquittal of the Duke of York of all personal corruption, though he could not of connivance. He thought that Mrs. Clarke had dealt out to the house many falsehoods, but she had also told them many grave truths; and upon these truths it was, that he could not think that the Duke of York was wholly ignorant of the corrupt practices which were passing.Mr. Home Sumner
655l.654653652651650649648 objected to the course proposed by the right hon. gentleman; for if the Amendment were received on the Journals, there would appear no ground for any further proceeding beyond that of the acquittal of the Duke of York from the charge of personal corruption and criminal connivance. That the house should have decided in favour of proceeding by Resolution instead of Address, was to him a matter of regret, because much might be conveyed in an Address which could not consistently be stated in a Resolution. The character of the Duke of York, he considered as public property, because the public were interested that a person so near the throne should not be tainted with any crime, or the suspicion of any crime. It was, therefore, in the highest degree essential to ascertain the conduct, and establish the character of a person so circumstanced. If the Duke of York should prove to have been guilty of personal corruption, a bill of exclusion must naturally follow. In an hereditary monar-
655l.654653652651650649648Mr. Tierney
647 disclaimed any intention to
647Mr. Tierney
680679678 assured the house, that he would trespass but shortly upon its patience, and if he had not felt that the proposition of the hon. bart. had placed the house in a situation of great embarrassment, he should, seeing the disinclination of the house to attend to the discussion, have forborne to offer himself on the present occasion to its attention.— The worthy bart. instead of proceeding to give a direct negative to the Resolution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, consistently with the tenor of his arguments, had, on the contrary, pursued a course, which precluded those who agreed in a part of the original Resolution, and differed from a part of it, from voting according to their conviction. He had to complain, therefore, that the Amendment of the worthy bart. had placed gentlemen who thought as he did, in a situation of such difficulty and distress, that they really knew not how to vote. (A laugh). There was nothing ridiculous in the observation. The hon. bart. disapproving of the Resolution, which stated that there was no ground to charge corruption upon the Duke of York, ought, to be consistent with himself, to have given it a negative: but, instead of that, he proposed as an Amendment the direct contrary Resolution. Let the house but reflect, in what a situation it would be placed by this proceeding. If they should negative the Amendment of the worthy bart., they would be necessarily obliged to
680679678Mr. Bankes
658 could not help expressing his surprise at the inconsistency of those gentlemen, who wished that the house should pronounce a specific opinion upon the question of Aye or No. In an early stage of the proceedings, they objected to pronounce upon the evidence without due inquiry, and now they are called upon to declare the innocence of the party accused. For his own part, he was prepared to come to a vote of guilty or not guilty, and he did not conceive it to be the duty of the house to express their opinion of other matters, which were not charges. He preferred Resolutions to an Address, because in the former the house could express the grounds on which they came to their de-
658Sir H. Montgomery
 explained the ground of his vote, (which would also be against the Chancellor of the Exchequer's Resolution) to be a similar wish to negative that Resolution, with a view of substituting another, in which one part of the Resolution which should have been negatived would be introduced. He wished gentlemen to understand, that in voting against the Resolution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, they in fact gave themselves the only opportunity which they could have of amending it. They might, by a new Resolution, acquit the Duke of personal corruption, and leave out the part which acquitted him of connivance.Mr. H. Thornton
708 disliked the distinction which some gentlemen seemed disposed to draw
708Mr. Cotes
674 rose and said, it was not his intention at so very late an hour to trespass much on the attention of the house, but he thought it his duty to address them because he had been badgered by letters of abuse, and such sort of things. (Hear, hear! and loud laughter.) It had been said that nothing had been done to inflame the minds of the country; he denied it; he knew they were inflamed, and he felt it his duty to the house to tell them, while he was able, that he had been used with severity; that he had received a number of anonymous letters, calling him a black-hearted fellow, and this thing, that thing, and t'other thing. (Loud laughing.) He spoke this to the
674Mr. Fuller
657 considered, that those gentlemen who had voted for the Resolution, had been obliged to do so, because they could not agree to cither of the Addresses proposed. He was one of those who could not bring himself to think that immediate degradation and eternal infamy were no punishment. He could not consent to inflict punishment for an ambiguity, or to pronounce judgment upon an alternative. It was sufficient for the character of the Duke of York, that the Charges of corruption or connivance were not proved. Although his royal highness might not be guilty of corruption and connivance, yet he might be guilty of great misconduct, so as to render him unworthy of trust. It was, therefore, better not to dismiss the subject without expressing an opinion upon the whole of the case. He did not approve of an Address full of flattery. It was an act of justice due to public opinion, that this house should express their sentiments in a manner most likely to meet the objects which all had in view. In the first place, he thought it right to state in the Address, that the house were of opinion that corrupt practices did exist. But that in lieu of the Address, proposed by the right hon. gentleman, it would be more unobjectionable if it was to go forth that this house were of opinion, that his royal highness had not participated in the corruption, or been guilty of the connivance at it. That was all that could be necessary for the Duke of York, and must be satisfactory to the public. It would be an injustice to his royal highness to deprive him of the votes of those, who could go thus far and no farther. He had rather kill a man outright, than mercifully inflict a lingering death; he had rather stab him in open day, than insinuate into his body a poisoned dagger. He liked open conduct, and therefore was desirous that the house should decide so far upon the guilt or innocence of his royal highness, as to say, boldly, whether they conceived him guilty or not of the charges exhibited against him; and if they decided in the negative, then to state that there was enough in the evidence to warrant them to submit the propriety of his being removed. This would afford the royal personage an opportunity to give in his resignation. If an Address should be voted, he trusted that it would not have the semblance of flattery, but that the commons of Great Britain would roundly and unequivocally speak their sentiments.
657Mr. Barham
 justified the Duke of York and col. Gordon from some imputation that had been thrown out on a former night, relative to keeping back a letter.Mr. Cripps
685684683 felt forcibly the importance of the duty which was cast upon him, as a senator, upon this most awful occasion. He was sorry to differ from those with whom he could not agree upon this question, but he had a bounden duty to perform and must perform it faithfully. He had bestowed all the attention he was able to command on the evidence which had been given at the bar of the house upon this subject. He had attended also, as well as he was able, to all the argument which had been urged on either side of it; and the result of the whole was, that, in his mind, his r. h. the Duke of York was indeed guilty; guilty of connivance in the shameful traffic of Mrs. Clarke in military
685684683Mr. Ellison
 meant not to object to the withdrawing of the noble lord's motion, but to urge to the house the propriety, from personal consideration for the Speaker, of abstaining from any course by which the fatigues to which he was subjected might be increased.Mr. Whitbread
707worthy baronets706705704703702701but for the present only,700699homo trium literarum,698697friendsbruta fulmina696695—It is not my intention, Sir, in the present exhausted state of the house, to consume much time in the expression of the sentiments, which I feel myself imperiously called upon to deliver in consequence of what has fallen from the right lion, gentleman who has just spoken. But he has advanced certain positions, and made use of certain expressions in defence of the proceedings which he has suggested, which render my silence impossible. Sir, I put it to the right hon. gentleman, himself, in candour to say, whether he has adopted that mode of proceeding, which we had a right to expect. He set out, by charging us with "blinking" the question —with having proposed an Address that was not couched in terms sufficiently decisive.— To that imputation, answers have been given which appear to me so satisfactory, that it does not require any further notice. But, Sir, the right hon. gentleman has so constructed his Resolution, as to make him. justly liable to the charge he made against my hon. friend, which was unfounded, as it respected him, of having gone about to catch voles. Such course lie does not in himself seem to think very blameable—and he has fortunately stumbled on the expedient of involving two questions in a manner that, to him, appears to render it impossible they should be considered separately—and the house is, upon this principle, reduced to the necessity of voting an absolute condemnation or a general acquittal. "The distinction, says the right hon. gentleman, which has been so accurately drawn between personal corruption, and conuivance, I cannot comprehend, not withstanding the references which have been made to the celebrated work of our great lexicographer, with a view to illustrate it; and so far from thinking the guilt of connivance greatly inferior to that of personal corruption, solemnly declare, that I conceive such counivance more mean; more foul; and more base, than
707worthy baronets706705704703702701but for the present only,700699homo trium literarum,698697friendsbruta fulmina696695Mr. Whitbread.
672671 said, he had intended to have gone at some length into the evidence, but since he saw the evident disposition of
672671Mr. Brand
 was of opinion that the house should come to a decision on all the charges, particularly those that related to corruption and connivance, and that it should be done rather by way of Resolution than Address.Mr. Cartwright
686 observed, that by putting
686Mr. Wilberforce
 expressed himself on the same side.Mr. Windham
673 did not approve of the hon. gent/s idea of passing a general ambiguous censure on the Duke, as the uninformed would apply the censure where it ought not to be applied; he would wish the house to consult its dignity, and not hastily blast an illustrious character by such
673Mr. Manners Sutton
659 was proceeding to comment upon the evidence, when symptoms of impatience appearing in the house, the worthy baronet good humouredly observed, that he could take a hint as readily as any one, and that he understood the present one so well, that he wished merely to be allowed to state his view of the evidence in general;
659Sir James Hall
 said, that he never had received nor ever expected to receive a favour from the Duke of York. The vote he had given he gave from the most disinterested and unbiassed motives. He had been influenced solely by a sense of common justice to his royal highness. The hon. bart. then commented on what bad fallen from the right hon. gent. (Mr. Tierney), who thought there was no corruption or connivance, and yet had something to censure, to which he could give no name or description.Sir Mark Wood
 observed, that the arguments of the hon. gent. who put it to him to withdraw his Amendment, had been directed against the complex nature of the original proposition. Not one of his observations applied to his motion, and, therefore he could not consent to withdraw his Amendment.Sir Thomas Turton
 thought it necessary that some Amendment should be proposed, of the nature of that moved, and he must therefore persist in it.Sir T. Turton
670 spoke at some length on the discontent which, in his opinion, a verdict of acquittal must excite throughout the country. He declared as his opinion, that the people believed the house was doing nothing, and meant to do nothing; at the same time, however, he was sure that the coolly-judging part of the community would be content with their decision, if they thought it was given from their conviction. It was with the utmost reluctance that he spoke one word against the son of his sovereign; to act as he was about to do, was to him a task the most painful, but a sense of duty notwithstanding impelled him forward; a sentiment paramount to every other feeling forced him solemnly to declare, that before God he really believed his royal highness could not be ignorant of the corruptions and abuses which had been proved lo exist. Those who knew him, knew how reluctant he was to speak thus, though they could not conceive the pain he felt in the discharge of his duty; but distressing as it was, "Fiat Justitia, ruat cœhim." Yet he envied those gentlemen who could lay their hands on their hearts, who could face
670Sir T. Turton
 as an honest man intended to vote upon the question. He had considered the case fully and fairly, and was of opinion that the Duke of York had not been guilty of any corrupt practices whatever. There were documents upon the table, which shewed that to be the fact, and he therefore thought it to be his duty to support the proposition of his right hon. friend.Sir William Curtis
713 rose, and said that before the house proceeded to renew the debate the house proceeded to renew the debate he would beg leave to take that opportunity of making to them a communication which his right hon. friend (Mr. Bathurst) might think with him was of a nature that rendered further proceeding unnecessary. He had, then to state, that on last Saturday morning, after the decision of the house had been known, his royal highness the Duke of York, of his own immediate and spontaneous motion, waited upon his majesty, and tendered to him his Resignation of the Chief Command of his majesty's Army; and that his majesty had been graciously pleased to accept of that resignation; the motives which evidently influenced the mind of his royal highness in taking that step appeared to him, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to be of a nature so honourable and proper that he was sure, when he had stated them to the house, the house would think of them as he did. The right hon. gentleman then proceeded to read, from a paper he held in his hand, extracts, of which the following is a copy.713The chancellor of the Exchequer
718717716715714 In rising Sir, to express my sentiments upon the motion of which I had given previous notice, it becomes me to bestow peculiar attention upon the communication which has just now been made by my right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That, Sir, which he has stated for the consideration of the house, is undoubtedly a fact of a most important nature; which at once inclines me to offer a few observations on the subject so long under discussion. There is no person in the country more sensible of the consequences likely to result from this event; there is no person more sensible than I am of the loss which the public will experience and sustain by his royal highness the Duke of York retiring from the command of the army. The many institutions which he was instrumental in commencing and promoting, and the regulations which he thought proper to adopt, have produced many salutary benefits; and what still more increases the importance of that illustrious personage's station, and made it more conducive to the good of the country, was, that by possessing the high rank which individually belonged to him, he
718717716715714Mr. Bathurst.
719 said, that there were one or two positions advanced by the right hon. gent, who had just sat down, in which he could not entirely concur. With regard to the regret of the right hon. gent. for the resignation of the Duke of York, he admitted that it was a great loss to lose the services of those who had, while in office, efficiently discharged their duty, but the loss of the services of the Duke of York was considerably lessened, when they recollected in what manner it had been proved at their bar that royal duke discharged his duty. He differed also from that right hon. gent., as to the great use and importance he thought proper to attach to the elevated rank of that illustrious person. He (lord Althorpe) was rather disposed to think that such high rank and affinity to the throne, were not the most recommendatory qualifications for the most responsible situation under the Crown; (Hear ! hear!) and he appealed to those who heard him, if, in the course of the late proceedings, their debates were not, in some degree, influenced by considerations of delicacy, inseparable from any discussion involving the character and honour of one so near his majesty; and therefore, it did appear to him to be of the greatest importance that no person should, for the future, be called to such high situations but such as could be completely responsible (Hear! hear!). Another assertion of the right hon. gent, went to the total acquittal of the Duke of York, as to corruption or connivance. It was not necessary now, perhaps, to go into this, but as it was mentioned, he would state, that he did think the Duke of York had been proved guilty of connivance at the corrupt practices which had taken place; and if his royal
719Lord Althorpe
727726 observed, that not having had an opportunity of expressing his senti-
727726Mr. O'Hara
728 said, that after the communication he had had the honour to make, he did think the house and his right hon. friend would have been of opinion that to proceed farther was wholly unnecessary; if, however, it was considered proper to proceed, he could have no objection to meet the discussion. With respect to the proposed Resolution and Amendment, he could only say, he preferred the Amendment to the original Resolution, but he could not agree even to the Amendment, unless it was farther amended, as he considered it by no means unexceptionable. He did justice to the motives which actuated his rt. hon. friend (Mr. Bathurst), who, he believed, throughout the whole business, had ever given his vote as the best feelings of his heart dictated; but he could not accede to the proposed Resolution, as he thought much censure was contained in it with little foundation. Convinced as he was of the Duke of York's innocence, he could at no time have given it his approbation; at no stage of the proceedings could such a Resolution have received his support; if, then, such a procedure would not have appeared just to him at any period of the investigation, it certainly was not to be expected that he could now give it his suffrage, when the Duke of York, by voluntarily resigning his situation, had given the most ample atonement he could possibly be desired to make by his right hon. friend, a greater than he could have expected: nay more, a greater than he could have asked. He objected most particularly to the word ' now' in the proposed Amendment; if his ideas were correct, the noble lord distinctly stated corruption, and connivance proved; if he (Mr. Perceval) was of that opinion, he should undoubtedly think effectual measures ought to be taken to guard against his ever being placed again at the head of the army. But he, for his part, was naturally of opinion that his royal highness was wholly innocent of corruption or connivance, and the house had negatived the charges preferred against him. If he un-
728The Chancellor of the Exchequer
729 had objections to some words in the Resolution, although he agreed with the right hon. gent. in many points of his speech. He agreed with him, that for the credit of the house something more was necessary than had already been done, and he had therefore been anxious the other night, that it should not go forth to the public that the business was finished. Having differed from the majority of the house on a former occasion, he knew with what delicacy he must advert to past proceedings. But he could not help observing, that the character of the house was greatly involved in this transaction, and he
729Mr. Hutchinson
725 thought, that although this motion was not so necessary after the resignation as before it, yet still it was proper for the house to express its sentiments upon those other points, which their
725Mr. Lockhart
 considered it absolutely necessary that some cause should appear on the Journals of the house, why the present, proceedings should cease. If the Duke's Letter, which the right hon. gent. had communicated, had been addressed to the house, it would have been a different thing; but all the house had heard was a speech; which could not be entered on their Journals and commented upon. The noble lord could agree in the Amendment of his noble friend, and in no part more cordially than in the word 'now.' It was certainly very unfit that the Duke of York should ever return to his command, after the corruption of which many members had believed him guilty; and if the noble lord agreed to the word for that reason, many might agree to it for other reasons, on account of the Duke's indiscretion, or his loss of the public confidence. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken an-objection to what his noble friend had said upon the subject of the royal family's holding places of trust. The noble speaker felt the position of his noble friend to be perfectly true; and however long the house might have been enquiring into the Duke's conduct, asked whether if he had been any other person than a royal Duke, he would not long ago have been removed from his situation? The noble lord was glad to find the right hon. gent, intended to support his noble friend's Amendment, and then those gentlemen who preferred it, as it originally stood, to the right hon. gent.'s Amendment of it, would have an opportunity of declaring such opinion.Lord Folkestone
730 said, he had intended to have given a silent vote upon this occasion-
730Mr. Herbert
 supported the Amendment, reserving to himself the right of giving his subsequent opinion as to the word 'now.'Sir John Sebright
 said, he had only to repeat what he had said on a former night on the subject of the Club of general officers. From the statement of the hon. member that the proceeding was founded on a letter of a garrison commander, one would think that a formal address had been proposed; this, however, was not the case. It was merely the subject of conversation, whether it might be proper to pass a resolution of thanks to the Duke of York then or at any other time. Nothing farther was done; so it was unnecessary for him to say that he did not second a proposition which had never been made. So far from it, no intimation of such a proposal was made till the cloth was removed from the table. It was then talked of, and it was agreed that, at all events, such a measure would not be advisable till the conclusion of the discussion now going on in the house of commons. There were at the time only thirteen gentlemen present, and the proposition was not received with acclamations. As to any thing further on the subject, he was as ignorant of it as if he had not been present.The Secretary at War
 said he had seen no paper in the hand-writing of sir D. Dundas. As to the other question, he could not say if the proposition was abandoned or not.The Secretary at War
744 said, when he first heard of the circumstance alluded to by the hon. gent. he stated, that it, bad his
744Mr. Secretary Canning
 explained, that he had not deserted the Duke of York, as the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread) bad stated. His royal highness had resigned of his own proper motion, and the hon. gent, could hardly expect him to make any strenuous opposition against his royal highness indulging his own inclination.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it proper that some entry on the subject of the inquiry should appear on the Journals of the house, and for that reason he disapproved of the Amendment. As to the question, whether the Duke of York should or should not be ever restored to the office of Commander in Chief, with that he had nothing to do.Mr. Lee Keck
745 replied. He could not consent to withdraw his motion. It did not come by surprise upon the house, but had been almost a week before them. He conceived the house was bound to pronounce upon the minor charge, that of his royal highness having permitted an improper influence to be exercised over him. The putting his Resolution on the Journals would be no bar to his royal highness's return to office. It did not charge him with corruption or connivance, but went merely to say he had been indiscreet. He thought it incumbent on the house to mark
745Mr. Bathurst
 was at first doubtful whether he should support the Resolution or the Amendment, but he now rather preferred the Amendment. The Duke of York had certainly displayed a great laxity of principle, in cases not immediately connected with his official situation, as in those of Kennett and O'Meara, and on these he wished to express an opinion. As his royal highness had resigned, he would content himself with voting for the Amendment, but wished the word 'now' to be struck out.Mr. H. Thornton
735 said, it seemed to be imagined by the right hon. gentleman opposite, that this was a mode of bringing forward, by a side-wind, that which had been formerly attempted, without success. He should hope that there were none capable of the meanness of endeavouring to do that indirectly, which they had not the courage of doing openly and avowedly. As to popular clamour, which had been so much alluded to, he must confess that there was no one who held it in greater contempt than he did; but there was evidently a difference between popular clamour and public opinion. What, he would ask, were the sentiments of the thinking, the observing, and the most enlightened part of the community? Were they not such as had been represented, and ought not the house more or less to support that opinion? It was argued that the public were just as capable of forming a correct opinion and judgment of the case before them as the house could do, it being clearly a matter of evidence; but that he should deny, because it was well known that that evidence had been very incorrectly stated, not, perhaps, wilfully so, nor partially, but merely incorrectly, on account of the numerous inconveniences and laborious duties to which reporters were subjected. Those who had attended to the evidence as it was adduced at the bar, were certainly therefore much more capable of forming a correct judgment, than the public could do out of doors. It was only after the most attentive reading of the whole of that evidence, that he had been able to form an opinion upon any particular part of it; and he certainty thought, that upon an occasion of this kind, every member of the house of commons was bound to act upon his own conviction, and not listen, nor he guided by public opinion, and far less by popular clamour. Notwithstanding these corrupt
735Mr. Hiley Addington
743 said, in explanation, that he concluded the opinion which he had expressed, on which the hon. gent. had so much animadverted, must have been conveyed in ambiguous terms. What he meant was, that if the house did its duty, as he
743Mr. H. Addington
742withdrawnrepeated741740739Now738737736Lassata et satiata Sir; 742withdrawnrepeated741740739Now738737736Lassata et satiataMr. Whitbread.
 again stated, that he had been informed the paper had been read before dinner; and if thought necessary this fact might be inquired into.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he understood the paper, on which the proposition was founded, was in the handwriting of sir David Dundas. There were gentlemen now in the house who were present when the information was given to him, and they could state that this was the fact as he had received it. He begged to say one other word. He should be happy to hear from the Secretary at War if the proposition was now abandoned?Mr. Whitbread
amende honorable724723de jurede factoamende honorablealways arbitrio popularis aur722721720 rose and said:— Mr. Speaker, I am one of those who would have thought it his duty to support the Resolution which the right bon. gent. has laid before the house, if the event this day announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not taken place. I beg leave to submit to the house the reasons which would have determined my vote in the former case, and those which induce me to think those Resolutions inexpedient at present. When the house, after a laborious disscussion of all the circumstances of the
amende honorable724723de jurede factoamende honorablealways arbitrio popularis aur722721720Mr. Whitshed Keene
 stated, that his intention was to have voted with the right hon. gent, who had proposed this resolution, as he thought the Duke of York culpable, so far as it expressed that culpability; but now, since his royal highness had resigned, the necessity of the house going further was entirely done away. Resignation, in his opinion, was a sufficient atonement, under existing circumstances; and his royal highness had evidently acted the more manly and prudent part in postponing it till after their decision. As to the Amendment proposed by the noble lord, it was, no doubt, extremely consistent with the opinions which that noble lord had expressed; but it was certainly going too far when it implied that his royal highness should never attain any high or responsible situation. Upon the whole, therefore, he thought it was quite unnecessary for the house to adopt either the Resolution or the Amendment.Mr. Cartwright
734 could not approve of the opinion, that, because the house had acquitted his royal highness of corruption, it had done enough; for he was one that always thought the house ought to inquire more particularly into all the existing abuses, with a view of reprimanding that officer, and expressing a decided opinion upon his conduct. He certainly had formed a decided opinion that no grounds existed for charging his royal highness with corruption; but still there were minor subjects which were to Vie considered, and he thought the general impression was, that the Duke had acted improperly, and it was therefore necessary to express that sentiment to the public. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already expressed an opinion, Unit he wished his royal highness to go from that house without any ambiguity existing as to his conduct; if, then, the ambiguity as to the major charge, namely, that of corruption,
734Mr. Davies Giddy
 referring to the club of general officers, stated, that he. himself was not present, but that he had inquired into the particulars of a friend who was present, and the information he received was, that there was no paper produced, that the subject was started in a moment, without any formality, and was carried on and dropt like any other conversation.General Loftus,
 had chearfully acquitted the Duke of York of any corrupt practices, but he could not acquit him of having permitted an undue influence, and would, therefore, vote for the Resolution.Mr. Manning
 did not think his royal highness guilty of corruption, but, at the same time, he found from the evidence something highly censurable in the Duke of York's conduct, and therefore he would vote for the Resolution, as he conceived it due to the country, that the opinion of the house should be recorded, with a view to its acting as a prevention of such practices in future.Sir Charles Price
 acquitted the Duke of York of corruption, but he thought he had permitted a profligate interference which was now known in the remotest corners of the British dominions, and he would vote for the Resolution.Mr. Gooch
 spoke shortly in favour of this Resolution, and thought there were some things on the table which ought not to go unnoticed.Sir William Curtis
733ex mero motu,732731 It was not my intention, Sir, to have troubled the house this night: but from what has fallen from the right honourable the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I feel it impossible to give a silent vote. A report had been prevalent previous to my entering the house, that the Duke of York had resigned; and I had made up my mind on the naked fact of his resignation, that no further proceedings were necessary. Had the mere statement of the fact been unaccompanied by the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I should have acquiesced in his wishes, without thinking it necessary to offer an observation. But, Sir, the facts which he has assumed, are so totally at variance with my opinions, and with what has been proved, that it is impossible for me to conform to the desire he has expressed, of suspending all further proceedings, and shall most certainly give my vote for the amendment suggested by my noble friend. Sir, I cannot but deeply lament, that, considering the Duke of York thought proper to address this house by letter, during the investigation of the charges which had been adduced by the hon. gent. he should have permitted the important fact of his resignation to have been communicated to us by an extract or copy of a letter to his majesty, through the medium of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; or that such a communication; which cannot be recorded on the Journals of the house, should have been made the foundation of a measure of public importance, so great as that of suddenly desisting from the decision of a question, which has now occupied, unceasingly, the attention of the house from the beginning of February. Sir, I must say, it would have been more
733ex mero motu,732731Earl Temple.
 said he could not but feel indignant at the manner in which the hon. gentleman (Mr. Ward) had treated the motion of the hon. baronet, to whom he thought the house and the country were highly indebted for bringing it forward, as well as for many other services he had done to the public. Public Boards were not the masters of that house, but ought to be their servants, and liable to their controul; and the hon. gentleman would have done well to have recollected the benefits the country had received from a Board, of which the hon. baronet had been an active member. The Commissioners of Naval Inquiry had said, many reports had been made as to the conduct of the Victualling Board, but not one had been acted on.Mr. Bastard
756substratum said, that the right hon. gent. appeared to him to have mistaken the field, and evinced an ignorance of the whole 756substratumThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the order of the day for a committee on the Irish Malt and Spirits Duties Bill, for the purpose of postponing the consideration until Thursday next, the house being then too thin, and especially of Irish members.Mr. Foster
762 said, that the right hon. bait. had stated, as his reason for moving the amendment, that the measure would be the destruction of the breweries. He did not understand his reasoning; but he hoped the right hon. bart. would attend to his, and understand it. He was not fond of reading letters to the house, but in that instance he thought it a duly incumbent on him to read one he had received from the most eminent brewer in Dublin. The substance of which was as follows: "That he had received a letter from Mr. Foster, relative to the intended duty to be laid on malt. That he bad lost no time in calling a meeting of the most respectable brewers, and they had, without a dissenting voice, agreed that the additional tax would be most beneficial." He then said, that the duty on malt was not raised, as stated by the right hon. bart., to three shillings in one year but it progressed to that in a series of years. It was a convincing proof, that the increase of duty had not injured the breweries, for since it had risen to eighteen shillings a barrel, the importation of malt liquor from England had decreased; and during the last four years the importation of hops into Ireland exceeded that of any other period. He submitted that this proved, that although duties had been laid on malt, the breweries were not injured, but had increased. He asked, was there ever any thing so preposterous as the suggestion of the right hon. bart., that the brewers would exact two pence a quart in addition to the present price, when his proposition went only to exact three shillings and sixpence additional duty on each barrel, which would not amount to a halfpenny a quart? And he was informed by the brewers, they would not attempt to raise it more; and that it had been in their contemplation to make that rise if the duty bad not been increased; in which case, the state would not have re-
762Mr. Foster
 was of opinion, that the amendment would only oblige the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland to bring in a new bill. At the same time he thought there were not sufficient reasons stated for the postponement of the committal.Mr. Marryatt
 supported the motion of his right hon. relative, upon the grounds that the subject was worthy of more discussion, and but very few of the Irish gentlemen present, while there were many of those connected with the West Indies. He put it to the candour and justice of those who opposed the measure, if it would not be better to meet the question with fair discussion upon the day proposed, rather than attempt thus to get rid of the subject altogether?Mr. Leslie Foster
 said, it was needless to enter into the merits of the arguments that had been used, as the question was merely relative to the propriety of adjournment. The unfortunate combination of the duties upon malt, and those upon spirits, was the cause of this bill being introduced, and it was surely unfair in the right hon. baronet, and those who supported him in his amendment, thus to attempt taking the matter out of his right hon. friend's hands. It was neither usual nor parliamentary to press a matter forward at a time not suitable to the wishes and views of the original mover. This matter had been already frequently postponed, on account of the pressure of other business, and now the proceedings of the night had encroached so Air upon their time, that it was thought advisable to postpone it to Thursday. This was rendered necessary, too, from the absence of members connected with the subject. It was quite irregular to propose flinging out one bill for the purpose of bringing in two; but the most regular mode would be, to let the bill go into a committee, and then propose its being divided, if thought proper, and there was even no practical objection to striking off the whole of the duty on malt. It had been deemed necessary to lay an additional duty upon malt, but at the same time to put a proportional one upon spirits, so as to produce an equality of these duties, leaving out those which related to spirits distilled from sugar; and the most proper mode of doing this had been thought to be by including the whole in one bill. Now, he believed, that no one person in the house was prepared to suggest a mode that would better suit the object in view; so that if they went into a committee that night, they would be all disappointed. He should therefore recommend, that the bill should be allowed to proceed in its present stage upon the day stated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was willing to agree with the Chancellor of the Exchequer for England, that it was neither usual nor decorous to force a member to bring on the discussion of a subject he wished to postpone, and with that view he would vote with the right hon. mover, and not with the right hon. baronet who had proposed the amendment; but when he considered the increased taxes upon malt, vital to the prosperity of Ireland, it would only be postponing the fate of the measure for a few days, for nothing could, in his opinion, make it palatable. Even although the brewers of Dublin did not think the additional tax objectionable, their concurrence in it would not tend to do away his objections to it. He knew that there were also some brewers in Dublin who would not agree to it; and what he had to lament was, that questions of taxation were brought forward with so little notice, that members of great towns had no opportunity of consulting with the trade. This malt tax was evidently so oppressive, that it would enable the illicit trader to drive the legal one entirely out of business. He considered the encouragement of the brewers as what ought to be the first object of every statesman. Mr. Hutchinson
 spoke to a point of order. He thought this bill was not like the ordinary sort of bills introduced upon any given subject, but it was a bill introduced upon the Resolutions of a Committee of Ways and Means. If, therefore, this bill were rejected, he put it to the house, whether it would be practicable to bring in another bill upon the resolutions of a Committee of Ways and Means, without having again the Resolutions of another committee of a similar nature?Mr. Foster
764 observed, that if the bill were committed, it might then be subjected to any amendment, for either the whole or any part of it might be left out. If it were to be put off for six months, it would amount to setting it aside altogether: the
764The Speaker
 rose for the purpose of asking the Speaker, if it were consonant to the custom of the house, to exclude from such a bill the Malt duty entirely; or to divide it into two, the Sugar Bill, and the Malt Duty Bill?Mr. Hibbert
 approved of the amendment, as he thought the tax on malt would certainly prove injurious to the brewers.Mr. Alderman Combe
765 said, his intention was to vote for the ulterior postponement; not because he disapproved of the bill, as to the regulation of distillation, but because he disapproved of that part of it which went to impose a duty of 50 per cent. upon malt. He was far from asserting that such a duty would injure the brewer; but he was afraid it would have that effect; and he considered the breweries of Ireland to be of such vital importance to that country, that he should be afraid to hazard the experiment, on account of its apparent danger. He had not received any sort of communication from those of the trade in Dublin; but he would acknowledge, had they communicated to him their acquiescence in it, he should have voted for that tax. It was surely perfectly right to keep that proportion between the tax on spirits, and on the brewing trade, as to give the
765Mr. Grattan
750 said he had never heard more warmth more less argument than in the
750Mr. H. Martin
 agreed in the proposition of his hon. friend, which he thought should be inserted upon the journals.Admiral Markham
 said, he was of opinion they ought to go into a committee, or to give up the measure altogether, and then to make some regulation as to the duties on spirits. It had been the practice of Mr. Pitt, and all other able statesmen, when any article was so over taxed as to groan under its weight, to reduce it to the lowest point, and give it an opportunity of again flourishing. He concluded by stating, that he did not believe the present duty on malt was collected to the extent of one-half, and if the present measure was carried into execution, it would be more evaded.Mr. Barham
l. defended the course pursued by his hon. friend (Sir C. Pole). It was consistent with the general tenor of his public exertions— ever anxious, as he had shewed himself, in bringing before that house abuses which, if suffered to continue, must prove detrimental to the best interests of the country. It was not as a dead letter that he wished the laborious investigation of the Commissioners to lie upon the table. No; he desired to carry them into effect, to let the people enjoy the benefit of such labours, by the operation of the different remedies which were recommended. By such conduct, parliament would obtain, as it would merit, the confidence of the constituent body; seeing as it would in such circumstances, the important trust delegated to that house honourably and honestly exercised. With respect to the appointment of one respectable gentleman (col. Walsh), he had only to say, without deciding upon his peculiar eligibility to that distinct situation, that from the respectability and amiableness of his former life, and his services in India, there were few situations which he would not fill with credit. As to Mr. Marsh, who had been dismissed, he would take upon himself to say, that that officer was fully competent to the duties of his official situation; and that, in his view, the treatment which Mr. Marsh had received held him out to the public as a much injured man. Beside, the house should recollect, that to this department the utmost parliamentary vigilance ought to be directed, when it was recollected that there was in the public returns of this Board an arrear of 11,600,000l.Mr. Peter Moore
749 spoke at considerable length, in answer to the hon. baronet. He said that he should be totally at a loss to understand the real object of the honourable baronet's motion from his speech this night, if he had not heard the conversations both within and without those walls which had their origin in the suggestions of the hon. baronet, and were calculated to throw blame on the present Board of Admiralty. This, he conceived to be the true motive of the hon. baronet for wishing now to enter upon the Journals of the house the Resolution which he proposed; the truth of which no man could deny, and which was the very ground laid for what the present Board of Admiralty had done, towards the very system of Reform in the Naval Department, now urged by the hon. baronet. He must, therefore, be excused from imputing the motion of the hon. ba-
749Mr. R. Ward
758etcœteras? said, that he differed from the right hon gent. opposite on many points, and in whatever way the worthy bart. might have introduced his motion, the hon. gentleman who followed him had treated it in a manner, he might almost say, unparliamentary; for his speech was not a reply to the speech of the worthy hart., but to some speech supposed to have been made by him upon a former occasion; if he disapproved of the public conduct, he did not think it fair to conclude that he was guilty of aspersion towards an individual. He declined offering any opinion upon the conduct of the present Admiralty; he had only their own word for their merit. His hon. friend had proposed a Resolution, in which he entirely concurred; he (Mr. W) had been for two years of his life engaged in an inquiry into public abuses, and he could pronounce that they were many, and difficult to be removed. The hon. gent. had asked, why did the Commissioners of Naval Revision, being members of parliament, why did they not reform the abuses they had detected? But, then, the hon. gent. had assumed what was not the case; for there was but one member of parliament, who was his hon. friend, attached to that committee; and it was a misfortune that their suggestions were not acted on. The hon. gent. himself had admitted, that the Victualling Board, was found to be so vicious, that it was almost a question with them whether it should be broken up or not. (Here the hon. member signified his dissent from the statement.) He so understood him, and was sorry if he had misconceived. It had been said, that those who were dismissed were too ill, and too old, &c. He wished to know what were the tit 758etcœteras?Mr. Whitbread
 thought it surprising that any gentlemen should be inclined to vote with the right hon. baronet, after what had fallen from the Speaker, it being perfectly competent to any one afterwards to move in the committee for expunging every thing that related to the duty upon malt, and leave the bill merely to equalize the duties upon spirits. Those who objected to the measure at present, would more speedily attain their object by letting the bill go into a committee, as there would be no difficulty in removing the objectionable clauses, which seemed to be those relating to the duties upon malt. It was certainly necessary to equalize the duties upon spirits made from sugar with that made from grain, the duty upon sugar, as it existed at present, being most unsatisfactory to Ireland.Mr. Huskisson
 said, his objection to the measure being precipitated through the house, was, that a committee of that house had been appointed to investigate what regulations were necessary to be made, as to the importation and exportation of spirits between England and Ireland, and they had not yet made their report.Mr. W. Smith
754753752751 said, he was supposed to have stated, on a former night, that the former Commissioners of the Victualling Board were so vicious as to render it necessary they should be removed; he denied making use of any such words: what he said was, that the former mode of conducting the business in that department, was found to be such as to require the removal of some of the members of the Board, and also to amend the system upon which they had proceeded. He admitted the motion of the honourable baronet was not such as to call for all the warmth expressed by his hon. friend, (Mr. Ward), in a parliamentary point of view, and he was glad to find him open his statement by confining himself merely to the substance of the Tenth Report, agreeing as he did with it, and with the necessity of amending
754753752751Mr. Wellesley Pole
755 declared he had formed his opinion on the subject now under discussion, only by what he had heard since he came into the house, a great portion of which, however, he considered as wholly irrelevant, as he considered the attack on the worthy baronet who had made the motion, as well as that on the Commissioners of Naval Revision, as having nothing whatever to do with the merits of the question. The simple point, as he conceived, before them, was, how far it was necessary to remove certain Commissioners from the Victualling Board, and with what propriety their places had been supplied? And this could only be decided by an examination into their merits respectively. Now, from any thing he had heard, the arrear complained of in the time of the former commissioners, might as well be owing to the great increase of business in that office; as he from experience knew it to be the case in the War Office. How, then, would they bring about the reform sought after? Not by a change of system, but merely that of persons! A very concise mode this, and certainly no less agreeable to those who were practicing it, and no less ready in the practice. Then comes an examination in detail, and as it were nomination of the persons who had been put out, and of those who were appointed in their places. Now, it happened, that of
755Mr. Windham
748d.747 in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose and spoke as follows: Sir, In pursuance of the notice, which I have given, I now rise to cull I he attention of the house to the Tenth Report of the Commissioners of Naval Revision. My purpose in doing so, is to impress on the minds of the house the serious and disastrous state of the Impress at the Victualling Office, and the urgent necessity of guarding against improper appointments in that Office. It hath so happened, that from the period when James Duke of York was lord high admiral, to the present day, complaints have been uniformly made of the management of the civil departments of the Navy, more particularly of that department which it is at this moment my object to notice. The business of the Victualling Office (vide 8th Report of 1788) is to provide, either by contract or otherwise, all provisions, and also certain stores required for the Navy; arranging and distributing the whole to the several ports and places at home and abroad as the service may require: to take care that the different provisions and stores, when so issued, be properly charged to the agents, storekeepers, pursers, masters of transports, or others, to whom they were issued, and to compel the respective parties to pass timely and regular accounts. Also to take cave that all offal arising from articles manufactured be properly disposed of; all old stores sold to the best advantage, and the proceeds duly accounted for; to attend to the various checks, &c. Such is
the outline of the business expected from the Commissioners of his Majesty's Victualling Office: of the importance of this subject, I cannot do better than refer the house to the First Report of the Commissioners of Naval Revision, page 6, 7, and 8, where they state from Mr. Pepys' Memoirs, "that the loose dissipation of the king having added to his pecuniary difficulties, he was induced to give up the plan, which he bad formerly pursued with so much zeal, of supporting and increasing the navy, on account of the expence attending it." The comparative ruinous slate of the navy in those few years of relaxation, during the interval of Mr. Pepys' removal and return to office, is there shewn, which draws from the Commissioners of Naval Revision the following important and just observation. The rapid decay of the fleet, and the waste of stores during these few years of supineness, shew from experience how essential it is to the safely of this country, that the most effectual means should be taken to guard against any negligence in the Dock-yards; and the great work of re-establishing the fleet, and restoring order, industry, and discipline in the Dock-yards, accomplished in so short a time by the Commissioners then chosen with so much care, proves in the most convincing manner, how much depends on having the civil affairs of the navy placed under the management of men of real ability, professional knowledge, and uninterrupted industry, and we think it out duty to recommend to government, that in the choice of them no other circumstance but that of their being the fittest that can be found for the execution of the various and important duties they are to undertake may be regarded I have thought it my duty to state this observation at length, as the Resolution which I shall have the honour to offer to the house is founded on this, and the last sentence in the Tenth Report now on the table. By reference to the documents in the reports of the several committees named either by this house or specially appointed by the government, it will be seen that complaints of the arrears of accounts in this department have been most loud; and hitherto, no regulations adopted to cure the increasing evil. And here, Sir, I must be allowed to repeat the observations of the Commissioners appointed in 1786, in their 9th Report. After shewing the many frauds and abuses which require the superintendence of ability, ex-
748d.747Sir Charles Pole,
759 said, that he had no other object in proposing that measure, than the public service, he had aimed it at no individual; he did not wish to cast the slightest censure upon any one, but thought that that was a proper measure by which the house might shew the country its intention of acting upon the reformations propo-
759Sir Charles Pole
 approved of the amendment, and said he was of opinion it was unwise to increase the duty on malt. He then entered into an explanation of the different duties levied on the respective proofs of spirits; and contended, that that levied on over-proof spirits bore oppressively on the distiller.Mr. Parnell
761760 said, that he felt himself under the necessity of opposing the motion then before them. The reason advanced by the right hon. gentleman, namely, that so few Irish members were present, did not exist; he had many in his eye at that moment. Ample notice had been given that the motion was to come on, and the house was then as full or fuller than it usually was when the Irish business was brought before them. The right hon. gent. generally took care that it should be too early or too late to have the benefit of a full house, and a deliberate investigation. The present certainly was a measure en-tilled to the fullest discussion, the more it was considered the more ruinous did it appear to the prosperity and tranquillity of the whole United Empire. He rose at that moment, not for the purpose of objecting to the adjournment, but to the period assigned, and would move "that instead of Thursday they should adjourn the cons deration to that day six mouths." If the measure proposed by the right hon. gent. was one that could be mended, if in its progress through the committee it was susceptible of any improvement, he would not have chosen that stage to oppose it; but as it was founded upon a principle radically wrong, the increase of the Malt Tax, as it was you capable of receiving any amendment, he chose that stage to offer his objections, because it was the first. He thought he could shew the house that it was impossible it could produce any revenue. Upon this point he would go, not to speculation but to fact.— Here the right hon. bart. went into a minute comparison of the produce of the Malt Duty for several years back, from which it plainly appeared, that from the year 1790, the additions to the tax produced comparatively nothing;, from which he drew the inference that the Malt Duty was then on its acme of taxation, and that every step since only evinced the
761760Sir John Newport
 observed, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had carried his objections to the hill to too great a length. He had argued against its becoming a permanent measure, of which his right hon, friend had not given the least hint. Particular circumstances warranted a deviation from general rules; it was narrow pedantry to adhere to given practices, without any modification or trifling deviation, He considered it wise to provide, even at a risk, against the detriment and inconvenience of trade, rather than endanger the security of the whole manufacture; but this was to meet a case of actual necessity, a necessity which really existed; and although it could not immediately be relieved, the bounty would have the effect, in the hands of the Linen Board of Ireland, of encouraging the growth of seed for the subsequent year, when parliament could determine upon the expediency of continuing it. He was not now recommending what he would in ordinary times, but, under existing circumstances, he trusted the house would see that this measure ought to be adopted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the second reading of this bill.Mr. Foster
l.766l. objected to it. He said it proposed to give 20,000l.766l.Mr. Baring
 expressed pleasure at the hon. gentleman having made his objections, as they arose from his misunderstanding the object; and he had thereby the opportunity of explaining it. The object of the bill was to render Ireland independent of America for seed, by inducing her to grow her own seed. The soil of Ireland, and the climate, he conceived so well calculated for its production, that he entertained the strongest hopes she would eventually be able not only to supply her own consumption, but also to supply England. Experiments had been tried, and not the smallest doubt existed of their being able to grow seed. The bounty was to extend to 15,000 bushels, which, according to the bill, was to be perfectly sound, or the parties furnishing it would subject themselves to existing penalties.—He hoped this explanation would be completely satisfactory to the hon. member.Mr. Foster
 entered into a general defence of our commercial laws, and said, that many found fault with them, who did not understand what they were. They confined to this country the monopoly of our own produce, and the produce of our colonies, which was perfectly commendable. Since the present administration had been in power, they had made no alteration in those laws; the measures they had brought forward were merely temporary, and were in no way injurious to any country. If all countries were to adopt similar regulations, this assertion would become evident. The present bill was nothing more than to encourage the growth of flax for seed. If we were completely free with America tomorrow, the measure would be a wise one, as it was extremely desirous Ireland should have the seed, independent of any other country, it being the foundation of her staple manufacture.Mr. Rose,
 explained. He did not condemn the motive, but thought the plan proposed would not have the desired effect.Mr. Baring
 wished to call the attention of the house to this bill, the fate of which had been decided yesterday. Situated as he was, in his official capacity, lie could not suffer the subject to drop, particularly as it affected so considerably the revenues of Ireland. He feared he could not prosecute his views without infringing on the rules of the house; but as this bill consisted of three pails, upon three modes of distillation, from malt, corn, and sugar, he conceived he might call their attention to that part relative to distillation from sugar, on which he wished to make certain regulations. Having candidly laid his sentiments before the house, he thought of proposing that the house should go into a committee to consider of the propriety of introducing a bill upon the subject, if the standing orders of the house would admit it. He concluded with moving: "That this house do, to morrow, resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, to fake into consideration the laws respecting the duties on spirits consumed in Ireland, distilled from sugar."Mr. Foster
 said, as it was probable he might be expected to deliver his sentiments upon the regularity of the proceeding, he should observe, that it was the rule of the house, when a question had been once decided, it should not, in the same session, be again introduced in any shape. But, if only a part of the subject was to be taken up, he conceived it might be consistently done, as the house would determine, when it was brought forward, whether it trenched upon their orders, and in what degree.The Speaker
 said, that notwithstanding the strong assertions of the right hon. gent, he did not believe Ireland capable of producing flax-seed, which was manifest in her not having already done so. The hon. gent, then generally condemned the acts of the present administration for the regulation of trade, particularly the Orders in Council; and thought this one of those measures which served to throw commerce into a state of barbarism. The idea of its making Ireland independent of America he considered ridiculous, for if the American embargo was to be taken off, they would immediately be plentifully supplied, and would of course revert to their usual mode of traffic. He supposed, too, from what he had heard, that this was to be an annual burden upon the people; in whatever way he viewed it, he condemned it; as a temporary measure it was nugatory; as a permanent measure it was bad.Mr. Horner
 said, that the country depended on the leading manufacture; the leading manufacture depended on the seed; to secure a supply of that seed, a bounty was necessary—it was a measure of necessity; if they had no linen, they had no trade; and he agreed with the right hon. gent. (Mr. Foster) upon its propriety. Though America might raise her Embargo, and we rescind our Orders in Council, still the same circumstance might occur; it was therefore wisest to depend upon ourselves, and, in that view, as a measure of necessity, he would vote for the Bill.Mr. Grattan
 condemned the interference of the legislature, as an unnecessary mediation.Mr. Sharp
 said, that the value of the lands and the high rents depended upon the manufacture of linen; if that failed, they must consequently fall in value. It was owing to the intercourse between the two countries in this trade, that the rate of exchange had fallen to its present standard, which he represented as unprecedentedly favourable.Sir George Hill
 though he might incur the censure of his right hon. gent, in common with his hon. friend, of being a pedant in the science of political economy, would nevertheless oppose the doctrine of the right hon. gentleman, that the Navigation Act was a wise exception of the established maxims of that, science: he could quote the authority of Dr. Smith to shew that before that act had begun to operate, the navy of England was superior to the united navies of Holland and France, and that the trade of England was then very great, and every day becoming greater; circumstances which induced him to doubt the policy of that measure. He condemned the general policy of commercial regulation, adopted by the present administration, the principles of which operated against a policy which every one had understood; and deprecated giving bounties, as originating in erroneous policy. He conceived that if any part of our trade could bear interruption with less injury than another, it was the linen trade, for the manufacturers were not exclusively employed in it, but were also agriculturists, and could consequently convert their lands and labours to other uses. He also deprecated the policy of foreign manufactures in Ireland by legislative protections, thus drawing from the improvement of the land that capital which would be more advantageously employed on land.Mr. Parnell,
 approved of the proposed measure, and would continue to do so if the American Embargo were immediately removed: he would not have Ireland's manufacture depend on the caprice of any other country; and he certainly agreed with the right, hon. gent, opposite, that if the measure should prove an expedient one, it ought to be resorted to.Sir John Newport
770 objected to the principles upon which it had been introduced. It had been defended as a temporary measure, on which grounds he condemned it; it could not possibly do any good, as the seed could hot be produced in time for the
770Mr. Baring
 in reply, wished to say that he had never talked of it as a temporary measure, but as the first step, the groundwork of a general system to render Ireland independent of foreign countries. If the people of Ireland had caught the alarm from the present state of affairs, and were apprehensive for their usual supply of seed, this would operate as a stimulus, and induce them to co-operate, and thus their apprehension would be productive of good, and would avert the evil which they had apprehended. This measure was the beginning of a system which would lay the foundation for the general improvement of that country; it would probably induce them to drain their lands, and he should have conceived himself reprehensible, had he been giddy enough so soon to have proposed a tax.Mr. Foster,
771 said, the hon. gentleman had asserted that no flax-seed was to be expected from Sicily or Greece; he however could state, that flax seed had actually been
771Mr. Foster
 said that the hon. baronet should be careful how he made assertions, as they tended to delude, and considered it no excuse for his being ignorant on the subject, because what he had wished had not been allowed him.—The hon. baronet had also said, what was commonly heard from that side of the house, that the Embargo was to be attributed to the Orders in Council, which they were not able to prove. This was what he should always deny; he would always maintain the contrary; the Embar go was laid on antecedent to the Orders in Council, the Americans had adopted that measure, anticipating the event which followed; they knew that if a spark of spirit remained in the country, his majesty's ministers would do as they had done. Whenever, therefore, Such an assertion was made, he would contradict it. But, even had it been the case, they were justified in doing as they did, for they had better submit to the risk of loss, than submit to any indignity.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
772 explained the principle of the measure to be the giving Ireland a kind of monopoly in flax-seed of her own growth,
772Mr. Foster
 was glad to find that the hon. gent. had abandoned the notice he referred to; at the same time, adding that he was perfectly ready to meet the discussion. As to the explanation mentioned by the hon. gent, as made by him, that, in fact, was stated to the house before the hon. gent. gave his notice, and, therefore, if that explanation were a reason for abandoning the notice, it was also a reason for not giving it at all. He knew nothing of the means of information upon which the hon. gent. grounded his statement respecting any particular paragraph in the Letter alluded to. Certainly, no such information came from him; but from whatever source it was derived, was immaterial to the main question, for there was not a single position in that Letter which he was not fully prepared to maintain, as conformable to a due regard for the principles of the constitution, and a perfect respect for the privileges of that house, as well as a proper solicitude for the ends of public justice. Therefore, to whomsoever the Letter was imputed, it was not to be imputed as matter of blame, as there was nothing blame able in it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that such was his opinion of the Letter alluded to, that were he in the house when it was read, he would have opposed the motion for laying it on the table. At the same time, he saw no reason now for renewing the discussion of its merits, as it had been sufficiently Ob-served upon.Mr. Ponsonby
 moved an Amendment, that the debate should be deferred, till Tuesday, upon the ground that there were some members absent at the Assizes, who had particularly considered this case, and who wished to deliver their sentiments upon it, and to this amendment he hoped the hon. mover would have no objection.Lord J. Campbell
 said, in explanation, that he understood the duke of Argyle was to have been called to the bar, to give testimony in favour of general Clavering, but as no witness was meant to be called, his observation fell to the ground.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 allowed that the postponements which had already taken place were by no means imputable to the hon. gentleman. He maintained, however, that the grounds which had been stated by the noble lord were sufficient to induce the house to consent to the postponement proposed. He did not think it would be well that it should go forth to the public, that such a cause for delay as the absence of individuals, whose evidence was necessary to the accused, should be stated in that house and overruled.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
778 would not argue
778The Secretary at War
'Through tattered clothes small vices do appear, 'Robes and fur gowns hide all.'780 argued, that it was no reason at all why the house should not take immediate cognizance of this prevarication, because some other member wished to speak upon the subject, who was necessarily absent, or that some evidence was to be brought forward: no additional evidence was necessary. He could not conceive why general Clavering should not be
'Through tattered clothes small vices do appear, 'Robes and fur gowns hide all.'780Mr. M'Naghten
787 said, in answer to what had fallen from an hon. gentleman on the other side, that he hoped there were few, very few, if any, of the rank and station of general Clavering, who could be capable of involving themselves in a similar predicament. He could not admit the force of a reason that had been assigned, grounded upon the alledged fact that many of the friends of general Clavering were now absent, who were competent to set up a satisfactory defence of that gentleman's evidence, because, upon a cool and impartial review of that evidence, he, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer,) did not think that it admitted of any defence whatsoever. He thought it incapable of defence. It had been argued, that many of the answers given by general Clavering, were such, as proved that tie rather misunderstood the nature of the questions, than designedly gave false answers to them. He could not agree in that opinion, and in considering this question, it was not to be forgotten that general Clavering volunteered in his evidence, and had set out with wilful misrepresentations from the beginning. General Clavering had stated, at one time, that he came forward voluntarily,
787The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was authorized to stale, that if the duke of Argyle had been permitted by the house of peers to be examined, be would have confirmed the impression which general Clavering had stated was on his mind, with respect to the evidence he had at first given, and of his having no wish whatever to deceive the house.Lord John Campbell
 said, that in his view of this subject the offence was of the nature of a contempt of court, and consequently no testimony could be usefully heard. They were not in their proceedings to follow the rules of any inferior court.The Speaker
 took occasion to observe, that he had received a letter from that officer, asserting his innocence, and expressing his readiness to submit to the jurisdiction of the house, which letter the right hon. gent, added, he would read if called upon to do so.The Speaker
 thought, that, whatever intimation might have been formally given some time ago, that this motion was to be brought forward, it was clear, from the thinness of the attendance, the house in general did not anticipate this discussion tonight, and that perhaps might be a consideration for postponing this subject.Mr. R. Dundas
777 trusted the house would defend its own character, by dealing out impartial justice to all witnesses who gave evidence at its bar, and that would go a great way towards disposing of the Amendment for the purpose of delay. As to the idea of many members being likely to be present on Tuesday, who were absent now, he hardly thought there was much in that expectation; he saw no reason the house should not decide the question now, as well as on Tuesday next. He was as anxious, and had, perhaps, as much reason to be anxious as any member of that house, to go out of town, having a great deal to do at the Quarter Sessions. But he must perform his public duty in the house of commons, before he attended to any thing else; and he could not, consistently with his notion of that duty, assent to postponing the present subject to Tuesday next, because lie believed that was a mere prelude to postponing it to the next session, and then for ever. One witness was already sent to
777Mr. S. Lefevre
 said, he really felt himself called upon to set the lion, baronet light upon a matter of fact. Any delay that had arisen had not been occasioned by him, for it was much his wish to have brought it forward sooner than what the house was inclined to do. He thought the house did not really consult its own dignity by such frequent postponements, for he deemed it their duty to act. with severity to any person who prevaricated, cither before a committee of the whole house, or a committee above stairs; and it was even of the utmost utility to inflict the requisite punishment immediately, and with promptness. It was to be treated as a contempt of the house. In the present case, the only clause of delay was, that gentlemen thought they had not had a sufficient opportunity of considering the evidence which general Clavering gave upon a former day, and latterly it was thought proper to postpone it till the other question was determined, and the papers printed. It appeared, therefore, that the matter was entirely taken out of his hands; and it was for the house to determine, whether or not it was consistent with their dignity to take it up now, when the opportunity was offered; for it was not a matter that could admit of postponement, on account of additional testimony, as was required.Mr. C. W. Wynn
779 declined recapitulating the evidence which general Clavering gale before the committee of the whole house, when he came as a volunteer for the avowed purpose of contradicting the testimony of Mrs. Clarke, on the subject of the Inquiry into the Conduct of his royal highness the Duke of York; that he said, was in the recollection of the house; it needed no
779Mr. C W. Wynn
773 could not conceive such a proceeding regular in this instance, as he had not so considered with regard to the Letter of the Duke of York, which he had intended to make the subject of a specific motion. This intention, however, he was now induced to wave, in consequence of what had occurred since he gave his notice. The house having resolved, that after the resignation of the Duke of York, it was unnecessary to take any further proceeding relative to his case, and the right honourable the Chancellor of the Exchequer having explained, that the most objectionable passage in the Letter alluded to, was hot designed to convey the meaning imputed to it, and which it appeared to him and his friends to import; but still more, understanding that this objectionable passage was suggested from another quarter, and inserted in the Letter against his royal highness's own judgment, he was induced to abandon his intended motion. But With
773Mr. C. W. Wynn
 declared that he did not abandon his notice from any change whatever in his opinion as to the unconstitutional character of this Letter, but solely upon the grounds he had stated.Mr. C. Wynn
793 said, that he would detain the house but for a short time. He had felt most severely the part which he was compelled to act upon this occasion, towards an individual of such rank and connection, but it was his duty, as a member of Parliament, and therefore could not be avoided. An hon. gent, had said, that the house never committed but in cases of prevarication; if that were the case, the standing order of the house was a mere dead letter, which stated, that if any witness should give false evidence before them, he should be punished. If there were any thing in the evidence that carried a doubt as to whether general Clavering understood the questions proposed to him, or not, he would say, that the word of a general" officer, that the word of a person descended;
793Mr. C. Wynn
792791790789 Sir; of the family of general Clavering I certainly do know something; and if it were possible that my mind could be biassed to the prejudice of my duty to the public, I should certainly be disposed to extend to this unfortunate gentleman the utmost indulgence. Sir, I am not one of those who would, in any instance, push a charge against a man; but in executing the important duty which, as a representative of the people, I owe to the public, I cannot go out of this house without declaring my unreserved sentiments; I contend, Sir, for even justice; and would put out of the consideration of this question every thing relating to the rank of the offender. I would wish that it might be considered as the case of A. B. or C. D.; of a person unknown to us all, and of whom we had never heard any thing even by report, whether he was of the highest or of the lowest rank. From every consideration which I have been able to give this case—aud I have indeed examined and re-examined the printed minutes of the evidence repeatedly—it does appear to me, that if the whole of the evidence of gen. Clavering had been given at one examination, the house could not have balanced in opinion for an instant, and he must inevitably have been immediately committed to Newgate. If in that opinion I am correct
792791790789Mr. Ellison.
 followed on the same side, observing, that when the situation of Sandon was considered, to allow any farther delay in deciding upon tins case before the house, would not be consistent with the principle of impartial justice.Mr. Ellison
788 observed, that among the many precedents of the committal of persons for the improper manner in which they had given their evidence at the bar, the witnesses*were in such cases generally committed for prevarication, and not for contradiction. Now, gentlemen on the other side seemed to think that there was no difference between prevarication and contradiction (A cry of No! no!). He begged pardon if he misunderstood them, but to him there did appear a distinction, and an obvious one; prevarication was a sort of shuffling (Hear I hear!). Now, he did
788Mr. R. Wharton
—Such opinions, Sir, if any such exist, must"'Twould thin the land such numbers to string.""But if rich men like us were to swing,786785784783782781—Sir, I am not in that situation in which the hon. gentleman has described himself to be with respect to his personal knowledge of general Clavering, to whom I had the honour of being introduced many years ago. When I first
—Such opinions, Sir, if any such exist, must"'Twould thin the land such numbers to string.""But if rich men like us were to swing,786785784783782781Mr. Whitbread.
 denied that it was the absence of witnesses: it was the absence of members. The absence of witnesses would have been a very different consideration.Mr. Whitbread
 thought the grounds stated quite inadequate, as the absence of particular members might at any time be urged for postponing a debate; therefore, however he regretted the necessity of resisting any proposition coming from the noble lord, he should certainly oppose the Amendment. He was sorry to see any individual in the situation in which general Clavering had placed himself; but he should be still more sorry to see that house neglect its duty, or expose its character to the imputation of wishing to screen any person from condign punishment.Mr. Whitbread
774 still retained the opinion he had before expressed upon the subject of this Letter, namely, that it was highly unconstitutional and derogatory to the privileges of that house. But yet he felt that it was very natural in the right hon. gent, to entertain a contrary sentiment, as lie was stated to be a principal party in the authorship of that Letter. Indeed, if his information was correct, that really was the case: and, therefore, it was only the author defending his own production. The right hon. gentleman's readiness to maintain every position in the objectionable part of the Letter was easily to be accounted for; but still he must say, that the right hon. gent. did not appear, from such readiness, to have a right understanding of the principles of the constitution, or the privileges of that house. It was to be recollected, that the right hon. gent, had explained twice relative to this Letter, and he rather thought that it was the second explanation which formed one of the grounds stated by his hon. friend for abandoning his notice, and which explanation was made after the no-
774Mr. Whitbread
 would have assented to the motion for the delay of this matter, if he saw any advantage likely to result to general Clavering by so doing; but as to his wailing for the purpose of being defended by lawyers, he considered that the general's reputation lost nothing by being refused a delay that could afford him nothing better than that species of defence. Nevertheless, as this was the only application for postponement made on behalf of the party accused, he did not feel disposed to refuse it. General Clavering certainly stood in a most painful situation; and he should think he was one that would, of himself, wish it to be speedily terminated. If the ends of substantial justice, or the dignity of the house, stood in the way, he certainly should not urge a postponement; but that not being the case, he was not disposed to be harsh towards the individual.Mr. W. Smith
 thought the present subject one in which there ought to be as little delay as possible, and he could not help remarking, that this measure had been already before the house once or twice, and that the house would convey to the public no very favourable specimen of its readiness to perform its duty, by delaying this subject even to a day so early as Tuesday-next, a point which he recommended to the consideration of the house, and as a matter not unconnected with its dignity. As to the idea of waiting for a fuller house, he saw no reason to give way, because he thought it impossible for the house, in any state of attendance of its members, to have any difficulty on this subject, and therefore the hon. gentleman was justified in bringing it forward in a thin house. Whether general Clavering was guilty of that which was imputed to him or not, the house should not decide the question on any little shift, and he was perfectly sure, that if the equity of the case was with him, the house would lake pleasure in deciding in. favour of general Clavering; but he must repeat, that in this case, he really thought that tile dignity of the house was at stake, and unless he heard much better reasons than any that had hitherto been assigned for the delay of this subject, he must vote for deciding it now.Mr. Wilberforce
l.l. was of opinion, that it was absurd to give a bounty of not more than rive shillings a hogshead on the quantity of seed required, the price having risen from 4l.l.Mr. Parnell
 after explaining, said, it was certainly true he had had the honour of assisting the right hon. gent., but had resigned, in the prospect of a seat in that house; and upon that event, he had found it his duty to take a seat on the side opposite to him. though he had every prospect at the time of obtaining any situation under government, which the influence of the right hon. gent, with Mr. Pitt could have secured for him.Mr. Parnell,
 rose and re-asserted the innocence of that officer, as to the charge conveyed in the motion, although he admitted his incorrectness in some points, owing to the imperfection of his understanding. Was such incorrectness, he would ask, any matter of astonishment, or to be regarded as improbable, when the embarrassment of other and intelligent witnesses was taken into account; when it was considered that even the honourable mover of the inquiry himself, competent as his capacity was, and fully prepared as his mind must have been, for any examination, was yet so confused, that he did not remember what had happened even within 24 hours immediately preceding, with respect to the number of times he had seen Mrs. Clarke. Now, he put it to the house, whether if cross examination could produce such an instance of confusion in a man of ability, what was to be expected on the part of a person so reared and educated as general Clavering had been; so unaccustomed to interrogation or public speaking as he must be naturally supposed. General Clavering was perfectly aware of the power of the house, and, of course, willing to submit with all humility to its decision. But yet, whatever that decision might be, which acknowledging his fault as he did most sincerely, would, he hoped, be tempered with mercy, he trusted to his conscious innocence, and that the opinion of a just and generous public would save his character from suffering; that it would acquit him, at least, of any intentional guilt.Sir M. Ridley
775 begged gentlemen to consider the peculiar situation of general Clavering, whose character and prospects were so deeply involved. When the meanest
775Sir M. Ridley
776 in explanation, said, he
776Sir M. Ridley,
 said, he could not understand why substantial justice could not be done now, instead of delaying it to a period when the house would be much thinner, for by Tuesday next many persons would have left town. He approved of its coming on now, for otherwise it might be shifted, and not come on at all, and, in the eyes of the public, the justice of the house must suffer by any postponement. During the interval of the previous postponements, it was well known that another person, erring in a similar manner with general Claveriug, had been treated as captain Sandon had been, and therefore he wished the country not to suppose they were inclined to favour that officer, on account of his superior rank or connections. He was very far from wishing to press this matter harshly, on account of the respectable family, with whom general Clavering was connected; but that officer having unfortunately placed himself in his present situation, impartial justice surely demanded that he should be treated as captain Sandon had been.Sir John Newport
 contended, that in whatever the Embargo might have originated, the continuance of it was fairly to he ascribed to the perseverance of ministers in the measure of the Orders in Council, instead of conciliating Americanat a time it might have been done to me mutual advantage of both countries.Sir John Newport
 replied, that if flax-teed had arrived, he did not know it, which he might have done, had the information he had sought been allowed him.Sir John Newport
 gave his sanction to the bill with a view of giving Ireland a fair trial. He however hoped, when the measure was carried, that care would be taken how the sum granted was expended. He thought this caution the more necessary, as the Irish Linen Company bad received money under the appropriation act, for distinct purposes, which they had applied to other objects; they had laid out part of the money in building, in violation of that act. This he intended to prove, by moving the papers, where it would be found, in the architect's account, that money had been laid out, not by order of the Board, but by the order of two or three individuals. As to the measure before the committee, he thought it should be adopted for the reasous which he had stated last night, and also because Ireland could no longer expect seed from Sicily or Greece. That they were excluded from America, the people had to thank those who had introduced the Orders in Council, as it was owing to those Orders Ireland was now placed in the situation she is with America.Sir John Newport
 was adverse to the measure because he could not reconcile it with any idea of justice towards the militia, or of policy towards the country, that such a draft should be made, particularly if it were true, as stated in the returns Oh the table, that our army only lost 5,000 men in the campaigns of Spain and Portugal.Colonel Bastard
 rose, and argued against the measure, to which he conceived there were various objections, but particularly as it involved a flagrant breach of promise to the Militia, made by the noble mover himself in the year 1807, but still more as it militated against the principle of all the statutes upon which that body was founded. The noble lord therefore thought it his duty to move an Amendment, that the second reading of the Bill should be postponed to this day six months.Lord A. Hamilton
l.804l. opposed the principle of this bill on the ground of policy. There were, he observed, three modes of raising men for the army, namely, by increase of bounty, by diminishing the burthens of the service, that was, by reducing the extent of service either with regard to time or place. These three modes offered themselves to the attention of the noble mover, but he adopted neither. He struck upon another device: He proposed to raise meu first by ballot, and then by bounty; but how did that scheme answer? It appeared from experience, that not more than one man out of ten raised by the ballot served in person. Then the remainder were substitutes raised by bounty. Those were the sort of men from whom the noble lord proposed to obtain his transfer into the line. Now, taking the bounty originally paid for substitutes, and combining that with the bounty paid for the transfer of service, it would appear that the number of men obtained from the militia by the last draft to the line in 1808 cost the country in bounties no less than 7 26,000l.804l.Mr. Giles
 presented to the house, by his majesty's command, the Copy of a Treaty of Peace, Friendship, and Alliance, between his Britannic majesty and his Catholic majesty Ferdinand J, signed at London, 14th January 1809; with two separate and one additional Article: viz.Mr. Secretary Canning
817 presented a Petition from captain Huxley Sandon, now confined in Newgate by order of the house; setting forth. That the Petitioner has served his majesty in the West Indies, on the Spanish Main all the American War, on the Continent of France during the years 1794 and 1795, under the command of his royal highness the Duke of York, and in Spain during the late contest, making a period of thirty-two years; was once wounded, and at the capture of Fort Omoa caught a fever, which deprived him of the sight of one of his eyes; and that he
817Mr. J. Fane
819l.l.l. rose, according to his notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend and render more effectual a Bill passed in the last sessions, for establishing a Local Militia. He began by shortly stating to the house, what had been the result of the experiment of last year. There were at present 250 regiments of Local Militia—of these 184 regiments were for England, amounting to 149,440 men, and 66 regiments were for Scotland, amounting to 45,721 men, making together a force of 195,161 men. The 250 regiments would then be rated at an average of 800 rank and file for every regiment; of these 125,000 men volunteered into the Local Militia, the remainder had been established by what were called Volunteers under the Act, those who had voluntarily entered the Local Militia without having been in any former corps; to the 125,000 before-mentioned there might be added for the volunteers under the Act 50 or 60,000 men. Now, according to the plan of last year, each of the volunteers under the act received an additional bounty of two guineas per man, but owing to the strong representations which had been made to government from different parts of Great Britain, particularly from Scotland, where the assessments on the parishes were felt to be peculiarly heavy, it has been thought advisable to do away that bounty of two guineas, and leave it to the separate districts voluntarily to assess themselves at any rate not exceeding one guinea per man. Another consideration that made this alteration less objectionable was, that it did not appear that there was any necessity for this bounty, in order to encourage the volunteering into the Militia. It would therefore be one of the objects of the Bill he should move for, to abolish that Clause in the Act of last session, that gave the two guineas bounty. As there were counties so peculiarly circumstanced ill which persons residing in certain parts of them could not conveniently attend the training, he should introduce a clause for the purpose of enabling such persons to be trained in any other adjoining county. He also should suggest an alteration with respect to the Stamp Duties on Commissions. It was also his intention to equalize the allowances for June and August to the Yeomanry Cavalry; and as the one was 5819l.l.l.818LORD Castle
818
821 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the Sale and
821The Chancellor of the Exchequer
823822 would not object to the motion, but he could not help observing, that the time chosen by the right hon. gentleman for proposing this law was very improper. That abuses existed to a very great extent had been proved before the house, and he was astonished when the right hon. gentleman said, that when the matter was examined, it would appear that abuses had not prevailed to any great extent. If he imagined that to be the case, why did he resort to a new legislative measure? He (lord F.) thought that abuses did exist to a very great extent; but he, at the same time, thought that this was an improper time for introducing the bill; for at present the house must be legislating in the dark. It did not exactly know how far the evil had gone, nor by what means it had attained such a magnitude. This could only be ascertained by examination of facts. It had been the fashion of late
823822Lord Folkestone
 stated, that he had not said that abuses did not exist to a great extent. He had only said that they did not exist to so great an extent as had been imagined; and this he believed to be the case. With respect to the time of bringing forward the bill, the house would recollect that he had given notice of his intention long before the noble lord had proposed the further consideration of the Report of the evidence. The house, he observed, was already in possession of the mode in which these abuses were carried on; and the remedy would apply whether the extent was small or great. With regard to the prosecution to which the noble lord had alluded, he said that these persons would have had an equal right to have refused to answer questions that might criminate themselves before as after the prosecution; and besides, it was satisfactory to know, now, that they had not been wanted on the late inquiry, and therefore no inconvenience had in fact arisen. As to the co-operation in the offence of these men, he agreed that it would have been most improper to have tempted them to commit a crime which they would not have committed had it not been for the temptation. But they had been before going on with these offences; and us to the application of the public money in this way, he saw nothing improper in it. As to the remedy not applying to a case like that of Mrs. Clarke, it was exactly the sort of case to which it would apply most particularly.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 on looking at the Petition, felt it necessary to apprize the house, that there appeared on the face of it several erasures and interlineations, and therefore, in point of form, it could not be considered as the Petition of the person who signed it.The Speaker,
 bore testimony to the same report, as having been Foreman to the Dorset Grand Jury.Mr. Ashley Cooper
816 said, that as a Magistrate of Dorset, and knowing something of tins business, he felt it his duty to state what he knew to the house. In consequence of some representations made to him by a worthy member of that house, he was induced to visit Mr. White, who stated to him that in his ill state of health he wished to be indulged by the admission of his wife; and upon his (Mr, Calcraft's), enquiring of the Gaoler, he was informed that ever since Mr. White came there life wife and son were admitted several hours in the day, and during his illness, constantly by day and by night, and since that regularly for eight hours a day, six days in the week. He then complained of the confined space in which he was allowed to take the air for an hour each day, and expressed a wish to have the same indulgence of walking in the garden as Mr. Gilbert Wakefield and Mr. Redhead Yorke had; but, upon application to the magistrates for this purpose, their answer was, that he could not be allowed this indulgence, because Mr. Gilbert Wakefield had made a very bad use of it; for the garden communicated with several parts of the gaol, and he employed, this indulgence in exciting disturbances among the prisoners. They however agreed that Mr. White should take the air in the garden for an hour per day, accompanied by the gaoler, or some trusty person, either all at once or in such divisions as he chose. This he communicated to Mr. White, who expressed himself perfectly satisfied and thankful, and promised that if he should have any future cause of complaint, he would communicate it to him (Mr. Calcraft) and as to his allegement of close, confined, and unwholesome apartments, he could only say, that although the gaol was not provided with apartments on purpose for persons of his description, yet as there were no female debtors now in the prison, he was
816Mr. Calcraft
 doubted the propriety of reducing the bounty, but said, that the measure had been received with great satisfaction throughout the country, and he approved of it. It would produce a strong military feeling in the country, which was a necessary object in the present circumstances of Europe. He hoped, in case of invasion, that this would be found a most adequate force, and worthy the confidence of the regular army and of the country Upon an emergency, there was no doubt that the officers would be willing to part With the men, if means could be found to have them commanded by officers of experience. He thought the people would not grudge the money necessary for placing the country in a stale of the fullest security, if real abuses were reformed.Mr. Curwen
815814ex officio,813 rose, and said he held in his hand a Petition, signed H. White, a
815814ex officio,813Mr. Whitbread
 reminded the house, that he did not pledge himself for the truth of the petitioner's allegations. It was the petitioner's son who delivered the Petition to him, and he fell it his duty, as an independent member of parliament, to present it to the house. If the grievances complained of had been remedied, it was to the honour of the magistrates: but why such severities were at all inflicted, might hereafter be matter for enquiry. Why the magistrates of a county should assume an authority to inflict punishments upon persons imprisoned more than were authorised by the court who committed them, he was at a loss to conceive. He was glad, however, the petition had been presented, as it might lead to enquiry touching such abuses, and settle some regulation in similar cases.Mr. Whitbread
 said he was not conscious of any informality in these circumstances; the erasures and alterations were made by the son of the Petitioner, who had delivered the paper to him. He would, however, with the leave of the house, withdraw the Petition, on the ground of its informality.—Leave given.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that the thing had taken a popular turn, and, no doubt numbers were raised, but as to the magnificent description of them given by the noble lord, he must have had it from officers who had not seen them. But when the noble lord talked thus, he ought to recollect that these men were so many taken out of the means of supply for the regular Militia and the Army. As the bounty of two guineas had been begun, he thought it should be continued, although he allowed that it had better be paid by the public than by an assessment on the parishes. If one guinea only was allowed, the volunteering would be at an end, and the men must be procured by ballot, and the Militia be made up of two descriptions of people, the one of which would be apt to look down on the oilier. This diminishing the bounty before the Bumber at present was complete, would create a great deal of dissatisfaction.Mr. Whitbread
820 observed, that the noble lord had triumphed in his success. He did not know what that success was. If the noble lord meant to say, that he had procured an army by this means, this was no great boast; because the ballot must procure men, and it never had been contended by any one that it would not. But the question was, what sort of soldiers it procured, and at what expence to the country? 'Prime men', his lordship said; he had not seen them to be sure, hut he (Mr. Windham) had no doubt the men were good as men, but the point was, what sort of soldiers they would make under this measure; and whether they would be of more value in this situation than another? Here was an army, his lordship said, such as no ether country could produce; they had more money in their pockets, better deaths on their backs, and officers of greater property than any other country could produce, respectable shopkeepers, attornies in great business. The noble lord spoke of an army, which might say like Cloten in the play, "Don't you know me by my cloaths!" and as if he thought that its
820Mr. Windham
 said, that the allegation of his noble friend was, that upon examination different plans for carrying on these abuses might be discovered, to which the bill would not apply, and therefore he had thought this an improper time for proposing the law.Mr. Parnell
830l. said, that he thought it rather extraordinary that the hon. member who spoke last, and the right hon. baronet who preceded him, having both professed themselves to be such warm friends to the measure for the further extension of Inland Navigation in Ireland, should, notwithstanding, determine to oppose the introduction of a bill, whose avowed object was the carrying of that measure into effect. "Does not this look more like peevish opposition, than any real disposition to maintain the public welfare? What is the question before the Committee?—'That leave be given to bring in a bill for the further extension of Inland Navigation in Ireland.' With the provisions of the bill, in the present stage of the business, the Committee had nothing to do. Gentlemen cannot, be so ignorant of parliamentary proceedings, as not to know, that if the bill, when produced and read, should be found inadequate to, or at variance with, the object it proposes to accomplish, they may refuse to give it a second reading; or they may, if they think fit, introduce such provisions in a Committee on the bill, as shall model it to their own liking. But it is impossible to give credit to the professions made by gentlemen, of their anxiety to promote Inland Navigation, and at the same time to suppose them serious in their avowed intention of endeavouring to throw out a bill which simply proposes to accomplish that object. A right hon. baronet, and an hon. gentleman near him, have made frequent allusions to me, as the author of the original measure of granting 500,000830l.Lord Castlereagh
831l. said, he would not tread over the ground that had been already trodden by others, and should state very shortly his opinion on the subject. Inland Navigation had always been a favourite measure with the parliament of Ireland, but although very large sums had been expended upon that object, yet nothing of importance had been effected, until after the passing of the act now under consideration, which had placed the parliamentary grant of 500,000831l.Mr. Foster
 explained.Mr. Foster
832 said, that when the right hon. gent. (Mr. Wind-ham)thought fit to make himself acquainted with any subject, he had the talent of enforcing his arguments with a cogency and force almost unrivalled; but when it happened, (as on the present occasion) that the right hon. gent, was disposed to take up a subject merely to assist his friends, and without any previous information, though he could not convince, yet his ingenuity was such as always to enliven the debate, and to relieve the house from the dull consideration of mere matter of fact, stud to transport them into the airy regions of wit and fancy. He was at a lass to comprehend what gentlemen could mean by opposing the motion of his right hon. friend. Were they friends to the extension of Inland Navigation? and if so, was it possible that they should oppose a motion for leave to bring in a bill purporting to carry that ob-
832The Chancellor of the Exchequer
826825 sad, that the benefits which had been experienced by the late extension of inland navigation in Ireland, in consequence of the Act of the Irish Parliament, to which he desired to call the attention of the Committee, were so evident and striking to every one who was acquainted with tire progress of internal im-
826825Sir Arthur Wellesley
 made a speech that appeared to entertain the Committee, but it was delivered in so low a tone of voice, that we could not catch all the points of it. Among other things, he said, he was ready to admit that the right hon. Secretary's time had been better employed during the last summer, than in superintending canals, however beneficial; that the proposed Board of Commissioners, without funds, was like a general without an army, an admiral without a fleet, or a minister without a majority! and that the money they had expended on the public works was little more than a per centage on their own salaries, (A laugh.) He deemed it unnecessary to put the establishment on the consolidated fund—for, as there was still a portion of the former grant remaining at the disposal of the Board of Commissioners, he thought there was no danger to be apprehended that those gentlemen would bestow the whole on the public works, and forget to pay their own salaries. Experience had shewn the house that they might trust them so far at least.Mr. Windham
829828 said, that no man was more fully convinced than he was of the expediency and sound policy of encouraging the further extension of Inland Navigation in Ireland, by Parliamentary grants, and he was sincerely rejoiced to find that the right hon. Secretary not only agreed with him in that principle, but had adduced one of the strongest arguments that could be urged in favour of that measure, namely, that it was a measure of sound British policy, independent of any advantage that Ireland might, as a distinct member, derive from it. But agreeing as he did with the right hon. gent, in principle, he was surprised to find nothing in the measure proposed, that tended in the smallest degree to carry that principle into effect. The right hon. member's plan was to appoint a board—to do what? The fund which they were originally appointed to distribute was expended. If it was intended that the Board was to be of any use, why did not the right hon. Secretary come forward, and propose to renew the fund? or rather, why does not the noble lord (Castlereagh) fulfil the solemn pledge given by him to the Irish Parliament, that whenever the sum of £.500,000 then granted, should be expended, his majesty's ministers would come forward, and recommend it to the United Parliament to make such further grants as should be sufficient to complete the general system of Inland Navigation in Ireland? "And I now see, said Mr. Parnell, a right hon. and learned gent, in his place, (we suppose he alluded to Doctor Duigenan) who, when, the grant for
829828Mr. Parnell
827 said, that he perfectly coincided in the sentiments expressed by the right hon. member in the commencement of his speech, namely, that the further extension of Inland Navigation in Ireland, was a most desirable object, not merely to that part of the United Kingdom to which he belonged, but to every part of the empire; as on the extension of the agriculture of Ireland, not only depended the welfare, but, in the present awful crisis, perhaps the very existence of the state. We must secure at home, even in unfavourable seasons, the certain means of subsistence; otherwise, shut out as we are from the Continent of Europe, as well as of America, it might be in the power of our enemy to dictate terms to us. Ireland is able and willing amply to supply your deficiency in corn; but you must assist her to do so; and I agree with the right hon. gent., that such is her deficiency in capital, that without Parliamentary aid, she cannot extend her navigations into the heart of her fertile country. And without inland navigation, the produce of those countries cannot be brought to market, as it could not bear the expenses of land carriage; and therefore inland navigation is the one thing needful. So far the right hon. member and I are fully agreed, but we differ most essentially in the manner in which these wise and politic measures are to be carried into effect. The right hon. gent. seems to think that nothing more is necessary to be done, but to appoint a Board, with salaries, and then every thing will follow. Now, I am of opinion, that a Board without salaries would be preferable, and I much fear, that the Board of the right hon. member, with salaries, will not only not forward the business, but will actually retard it; and this has been sufficiently proved by the manner in which this same Board has hitherto proceeded; a permanent instance of which I will give to the Committee. In the year 1807, the whole sum expended by the Board, including its own establishment, was £.21,000: and what do you think, out of that trifling sum, was paid for the establishment? why, no less than £.6,100. This went in £.500 a piece for five Commissioners, £.500 more to a secretary, so much for an accountant, for a clerk of the
827Sir John Newport
 commented on the inconsistency of the hon. gent, who had just spoken, who having commenced by expressing a favourable opinion of his learned friend's measure, set down with describing it as one of an injurious tendency. The hon. gent, had certainly professed himself at one time a friend to the principle of the Bill. If he actually was friendly to the principle of the Bill, the course which it was obviously expedient for him to pursue was not to oppose the second reading of it, but to allow it to go into a Committee, and there to propose any modifications of that principle that might to him seem advise-able. For his own part, he was perfectly convinced that there was no branch of the laws of this country which stood more in need of regulation and amendment than the Bankrupt Laws, and he should therefore give his hearty assent to his learned friend's motion.Mr. Ponsonby
835 was persuaded, that no judicial situation was more painful than that of a Commissioner of Bankrupt. Commissioners of Bankrupt were generally young barristers, well qualified for that situation, but who connected with that object advancement in their profession, and to whom therefore the administration of the Bankrupt laws soon became a secondary consideration. Pressed by their professional avocations, they were compelled to crowd into one day a number of cases which probably required great deliberation. In his opinion the Commissioners of Bankrupt should be a distinct class, to whom sufficient emolument and advantages ought to
835Mr. Abercrombie
836 expressed his obligations to the honourable gentlemen who had stated their opinions on the subject. Having no object but to improve the law, he was anxious to hear, with the utmost attention, every suggestion that could be made for that purpose. He assured the house, that since he had introduced the Bill into Parliament, he had been honoured with so many communications on the subject, that it would have occupied the whole of his time even to return his acknowledgments to those by whom they were made. He should have several alterations to propose in the Bill; one which he was glad to feel would obviate an objection made by the hon. gent. opposite; another which would tend to carry still further the remedy against the evil which at present resulted from the practice of assignees keeping in their own hands the property of bankrupts, speculating with that property, and eventually becoming bankrupts themselves. For this latter purpose he meant to propose a clause, enacting, that if any assignee should become a bankrupt while he was indebted above a hundred pounds to the estate of the bankrupt to whom he was an assignee, the certificate of that assignee, so become a bankrupt,
836Sir Samuel Romilly
 could not agree with the hon. gent, who had just spoken, as to the expediency of making such an alteration in the general administration of the Bankrupt Laws, as he seemed to think adviseable. He allowed that the Commissioners were generally made from junior barristers, but he contended that in so extensive a profession as that of the law, although many might soon obtain the due reward of their talents by great professional employment, there were still enough remaining unoccupied and perfectly competent to fulfil the duties of the important trust with which they were vested. He cordially approved of the principle of the Bill before the house, although he might perhaps take the opportunity, when in the Committee, of stating his objections to some of the details of it; and particularly to the great extension of power which it proposed to grant to the Chancellor.Mr. Wilson
 in explanation, disclaimed any intention of opposing the second reading of the Bill. The hon. gent, had misapprehended him if he supposed that, by his observations, he meant any thing more than to suggest to the consideration of the learned bart., and of the house, some circumstances which, in his opinion were of importance.Mr. Jacob
834l.833 after conplimenting the learned bart. on his zeal to ameliorate so important a branch of the legislative code of the country, stated, that he would take the liberty of mentioning some ideas that had occurred to him in furtherance of the learned bart.'s object. It was, in his opinion, a strange anomaly, that the Commissioners of Bankrupts should have the power of summoning a bankrupt when a prisoner in a mesne process and not when in execution. Several instances had recently occurred in which the inconvenience and absurdity of this distinction were manifested. The Commissioners received but twenty shillings for their trouble on each sitting, and yet it was frequently necessary, if they discharged their duty, that they should go to a considerable distance in the country for that purpose. In some cases which had lately occurred, Commissioners, owing to this absurdity, had been compelled to go as far as Hull. Nor did it to him seem proper that the Commissioners of Bankrupts should be permitted to close their list, or in other words to adjourn, for a long period; the consequence of which was frequently great inconvenience to all parties. He trusted that in the Committee a clause would be proposed to remedy this evil. He was desirous also, if it were possible, to reform the indecorous manner in which commissions were held in the metropolis, arising from the poor rate at which the
834l.833Mr. Jacob,
 rose, in pusuance of the notice he gave yesterday, to move for copies of certain Proceedings instituted in the court of King's Bench by the Attorney-General against John Ogle, esq. in 1800 or 1801. He stated, that from the information he had received, he had understood that col. Ogle, in the year 1800 or 1801, had received a letter for raising a levy of men in Ireland; that he proceeded to carry the same into effect, in the course of which it appeared, that in many accounts presented at the War Office, col. Ogle had been found guilty of mal-practices, which rendered him liable to the charge of forgery and perjury. That in one of those years the Attorney-General had filed an information in the court of King's Bench against col. Ogle, to which he had entered a plea of not guilty, which plea was however withdrawn afterwards, and judgment by default went against him, so that he stood convicted of those crimes since 1801, and had never been brought up for judgment, nor had any further proceedings been heard on the subject. He therefore moved, for a Copy of the Information filed by the Attorney-General in the court of King's Bench against John Ogle, esq. in 1800 or 1801, and all legal proceedings had thereon.Lord Folkestone
l. said that the affair of col. Ogle's levy took place while he was at the head of the War Office, and as far as he had a recollection of the circumstance at present, the accounts were forwarded to gen. Gwynn, who was the inspecting general. Why the law proceeding was stopt he did not know; but in the War Office he recollected that col. Ogle had been called on to enter into a bond of 10,000l.Mr. Yorke
18 did not object to the motion, although he thought it unnecessary, as it would be found that Mr. Ogle had entered into some engagements to indemnify the public for the losses that had been sustained. It was not unusual in such cases to call for the payment of lines, and through motives of leniency to suspend the proceedings against individuals in that situation.18The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 complained of a Breach of Privilege in the arrest of a member coming to the house. All we could collect on the subject was—from what fell from the Speaker as we entered the gallery, who then observed, that the hon. member was right in bringing it forward, that the Sheriffs were responsible for the acts of their officers, and that when the matter was regularly brought before the house, the offender would, no doubt, be made a proper example of.Sir C. Hamilton
2120l.19d.s. rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the production of certain Papers relative to the Conduct of the Paving and Lighting Board of the City of Dublin. He thought that those papers contained information that would materially affect the judgement of the house in deciding en the merits of the Bill now pending; and as the citizens were not only averse to enlarging the powers of that board to so extravagant a degree, but very anxious to repeal several of the powers already granted to that board by the 47th of the king, as appeared from their proceedings at several of their corporate and parochial meetings, he begged permission to state shortly the facts that had induced him to call for these papers. And in doing so, he particularly wished that the house would bear in mind, that the citizens of Dublin are now paying, under the 47th of the king, heavy and enormous taxes for the support of this new establishment, and that common justice requires, that, if they are to pay a great deal more than formerly, the services they were to receive in return ought to be in the same proportion. It appeared, however, that the Commissioners of this board were more active in levying the taxes than in rendering such services; for by the act of last session, they were empowered to raise the tax on each house to any sum not exceeding 42120l.19d.s.Mr. Robert Shaw
22, seeing a noble lord in his place, expressed a wish to know from that noble lord, if what he had heard with respect to the disposal of the public property to an individual was founded in fact. The circumstance he alluded to was
22Sir Francis Burdett
, observing that he was particularly applied to by the hon. baronet, begged leave to assure him, that that was the first time he had heard any thing of the circumstance alluded to, and that therefore it was not in his power to give the hon. baronet any information whatever on the subject.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that he was glad he had brought the matter before the house, as it was evident that the statement which had been made to him did appear to be founded in fact. It was clear that it ought to be followed up by every possible investigation. He thought it would be requisite that a committee of the house should be appointed to inspect the ground in question, or at least some means should be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining the value of the ground disposed of, and the manner in which it had been disposed of; for certain it was, that if it had been disposed of in the manner in which he had been informed it was, there could be no doubt whatever that a great and serious abuse had been committed.Sir Francis Burdett
 professed his entire ignorance of the transaction alluded to.Mr. Rose
 said, that he would to-morrow submit to the he a motion on the subject.Sir Francis Burdett
 observed, that when the duty should be reduced so low as to meet the wishes of the gentlemen on the other side of the house, the Irish distiller would have an advantage over the English distiller, as the latter was obliged to produce 21 gallons of spirits from 200 weight of sugar, whereas the Irish distiller need only produce 18. It therefore followed that the Irish spirits would be made stronger for the same duty. He thought it but fair to take notice of this circumstance, although he was ready to conform the duty to the wishes of other gentlemen.Mr. Foster
 was of the same opinion.Mr. Marryat
d.s.d.s. said, that it had been his intention to reduce the duties, in consequence of the suggestions which had been made to him, from 3d.s.d.s.Mr. Foster
 here suggested that there was then no question before the house, and asked the hon. baronet, whether it was his pleasure forthwith to submit a motion to the house, or to give notice of such a motion?The Speaker
25 said, that while there was no spirit intercourse between Great Bri-
25Mr. Barham
 confirmed the statement of Mr. Huskisson; when sir F. Burdett again rising,Mr. Long
 admitted that what the hon. baronet alluded to was not altogether unfounded in fact. The state of the grounds belonging to Chelsea hospital had been submitted to the Commissioners, and it did appear that the Infirmary was inconveniently situated. It was considered that it would prove most advantageous to the interests of that institution, to have the ground that could not be better disposed of let out for building. Under these circumstances it was, he believed, that colonel Gordon had become a holder of that part of the ground.Mr. Huskisson
 complained that a Sheriff's Officer had yesterday seized his person, in his own house, and treated him with great rudeness, which he deemed to be a breach of the privileges of the house. He moved therefore, "That Daniel Butler, the officer alluded to, do attend at the bar of the house to-morrow, to answer for the said breach of privilege."—Ordered.Sir C. Hamilton
 moved that he should withdraw; which having done, he moved that Butler be examined as to the statement made by sir C. Hamilton. Being called in, the Speaker asked him, "If when he arrested sir C. Hamilton, that gentleman did not endeavour to satisfy him he was not the person whom Butler came to arrest? He answered, Yes.—He was ordered to withdraw.Mr. Yorke
nam. con. said, he believed the house could have no doubt of this being a gross breach of privilege. The hon. baronet had evinced a most patient and forbearing spirit, and as the man had not attempted to palliate his offence by the slightest apology, he moved, "That the said Daniel Butler having arrested and insulted the said sir Charles Hamilton, as stated in the said complaint, is guilty of a high breach of the privileges of this house."—Which was agreed to nam. con.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated in reply, that the Gazette contained all the engagements entered into upon the capitulation of Martinique. But he had further to inform his hon. friend, that our commanders had received a peremptory order not to enter into engagements upon the subject referred to by him, and it was therefore left perfectly open. He had no difficulty in adding, that it was not the intention of government that any part of the produce of Martinique should be admitted into this country for home consumption, but merely for the purpose of exportation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
35 rose, pursuant to the notice, which in his opinion he had been called upon very unnecessarily to give upon this subject, to make his promised motion. But yet he had complied with the request of a notice, as the hon. gentlemen on the other side appeared to be so ignorant of the case. At this ignorance however, he confessed himself extremely surprized, because he thought it impossible for any man to see the land upon which colonel Gordon's house was preparing to be built, or to have any idea of its situation contiguous to Chelsea hospital, and particularly to the infirmary, without being convinced that such a building should not be permitted, and that the whole bargain which gave that officer possession of this ground, ought to be revoked. It was impossible for any man to give an accurate idea of the state of this land, as it depended so much upon locality. But, from the view which he, accompanied by a member of that house, had taken of it in the course of the morning, he was enabled to assert, that such a building ought not to be tolerated. The ground upon which this building was to be erected, was, he understood, originally crown land, a long lease of which was granted to sir R. Walpole, which lease became the property of lord Yarborough. Of this lease a certain number of years were unexpired, when government thought proper to purchase it, for the benefit, avowedly, of Chelsea Hospital. But what was done after the purchase? Why, that to which he objected, as well because the proceeding would tend to spoil a magnificent establishment, as because it was a scandalous job; the effect of which would be, to deprive the Hospital of twenty times more benefit than it could confer upon the individual for whose favour it was meant. To this individual was appropriated a fine piece of land adjoining the river, which ought to have been reserved for the use of the Hospital, particularly under existing circumstances, when the great increase of our military force was so likely to render necessary an extension of the Chelsea establishment. But the alienation of this property from the Hospital, was not more to be deprecated than the manner in which it was to be used. Colonel Gordon's house was, it appeared, to be built upon the banks of the Thames, between that and the infirmary; so that this useful institution, which was already too much hemmed in by buildings and plantations, was, by colonel Gordon, to be
35Sir Francis Burdett
 said, that having accompanied the hon. baronet to view the premisses to which the motion alluded, he was enabled to confirm his statement. The infirmary, which did not in fact occupy one-tenth of the ground purchased professedly for the use of the hospital, would, he must contend, be entirely precluded from the free air of the river by the projected buildings of col. Gordon, who occupied the remainder of this ground. In fact, col. Gordon's was by far the superior part of the ground, and that upon which the infirmary was built appeared quite clamp and cold, and it must be rendered more so, if col. Gordon should be suffered to proceed.Sir Oswald Moseley
4039 maintained, that the hon. baronet had no ground for the observation, that it was in consequence of the ignorance of his friends, relative to this transaction, that the hon. baronet was called upon yesterday to give notice of this motion. For although his noble friend (lord Castlereagh) was unacquainted with it, as he must be naturally supposed, having no connection with it, still nearly the same explanation had been given to the hon. baronet yesterday, which the house had heard to-day. But yet he was happy that the notice was called for. He esteemed that rule of proceeding, because it guarded the house, or, at least, those who might be particularly interested, against being taken by surprize; but it did more; by apprizing persons of an in-
4039The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that one would suppose from the arguments of the hon. general, that something had been taken from Chelsea Hospital to be given to a favoured officer; whereas the fact was, that when this ground was bought by government, it was left to the physician of the Hospital, the trustees, and the surveyors, to cut and carve out of it what they thought necessary for the use of the Hospital. Before the 34th of the king, the disposal of crown lands was a source of influence to ministers; but since the passing of that act, the crown lands had been let with as much attention to the interests of the public, and as accurate regard to their actual value, as the lands of any bishop, or corporate body in the kingdom.Mr. Rose
43l.l.42 expressed a hope that he should experience the indulgence of the house whilst he look some notice of the allusions which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought proper to make to his general conduct. Those allusions were so foreign to the question before the house, and so irregular in other points of view, that he really should have hoped that the eye of the chairman would have caught that of the right hon. gent. and checked him in his high career, when imputing improper motives to the conduct of any member. This observation he made, he could assure the right hon. gent. without any feeling of that indignant warmth which appeared to actuate him. Arrogance might be imputed to him for pronouncing any opinion upon the subject of the building referred to, without inquiring about the reports of the architects and surveyors. But if he had incurred such an imputation before, he feared that still mere arrogance would be imputed to him when he declared, that after hearing all that had been said explanatory of the reports, so much relied upon by the gentlemen on the other side, he continued to retain the same opinion. The right hon. gent. became, he perceived, quite angry when he talked about attaching a feeling of suspicion to the whole conduct of ministers. For himself, he was ready to say, that he should be sorry for the existence of such a feeling if undeserved; but from experience he must say, that he was highly glad to see that such a feeling prevailed, because he thought
43l.l.42Sir Francis Burdett
 in explanation stated, that he did not mean to impute any improper motives to the hon. baronet. If he had done so, he was ready to apologise to the house and to him. At the same time, the hon. baronet must expect the language of irritation from him, when he characterized as a job a transaction in which he had been concerned.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that it consisted of four acres and a quarter, of which the quarter had been assigned to the hospital, and the four acres to col. Gordon. (Hear! hear!)Sir F. Burdett
 observed, that the Treasury had acted with all the precautions required by the act of parliament. It was a serious thing to bring a charge against the Treasury of having been engaged in a scandalous job, and then to say that the hon. baronet had been unacquainted with the circumstances under which they had acted.Mr. Stewart Worthy
48 said, that no remedy was at present proposed, and considering the advanced state of the session, and the great consideration which a bill of this kind required, he could not consent to any
48Sir Samuel Romilly
46l. admitted the fact, and stated that the house in question had been in the occupation of sir Charles Morgan, the late Judge-Advocate, who had been permitted to retain it after the resignation of his situation till the time of his death. A salary of 50046l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
47 rose pursuant to his notice of yesterday, to call the attention of the house to the merits of that part of the army and navy which had effected the conquest of Martinique. This ha stated was not the first time that the gratitude of parliament had been expressed to the Conquerors of Martinique; and that service had certainly never been effected in a manner more honourable in every point, of view, to those who had been employed in it, than on the present occasion. Whether the house regarded the whole course of proceeding, or the shortness of the time in which the conquest had been accomplished, the service must be considered as having been performed in a way that called for the best acknowledgments of parliament. It was a most important feature in this transaction, that it had not interfered with other services; that it had been accomplished without an armament from Europe, which had on former occasions been required, but that the ability of the officers abroad had been adequate to the purpose without any effort from home. It was a proud circumstance in the military situation of the country, that this conquest had been effected in the West Indies, while 50,000 men were employed abroad in Europe. The time was so short, and the operations were all conducted with such activity, that it was impossible to look at the whole without admiration. Throughout the whole of the business, the troops had displayed signal instances of valour, as they always did when opportunity offered. But there was another feature in the conduct of this expedition, which was highly creditable to those who had the management of it, viz. That the conquest had been accomplished without that injury to the health of the troops which had usually attended West India service. But so careful had the officers been, that on this occasion the
47Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had not stated that any thing was granted from Chelsea Hospital to a favoured officer. He had only said, that he would not consent to a grant to any officer living or dead, which would be injurious to that Hospital.General Tarleton
l. thought the hon. baronet entitled to the highest thanks for calling the attention of the house to this subject. Any attempt to diminish the convenience, or even to interfere with the beauty, of Chelsea Hospital, he should most strenuously deprecate. That building he considered as a splendid monument of the benevolence, and a gratification to the pride, of the country. It furnished accommodation to the old, and encouragement to the young soldier; and therefore every friend to the army must be anxious to preserve it unimpaired. Certainly, nothing that could tend in the remotest degree to reduce its comforts, ought to be even risked for such a sum as 52l.General Tarleton
 observed, that all persons interested in our West India colonies, must naturally be anxious to obtain the information, which he had no doubt of his right hon. friend's inclination to take the earliest opportunity of affording, with regard to Martinique. He therefore requested to know whether any, and what engagements had been entered into upon the capitulation of that island, relative to the importation of its produce into this country, and also, if that business was left open, whether it was the intention of government to allow the produce of Martinique to be imported here upon the same footing as the produce of our own colonies, or if not, upon what terms?Mr. C. Ellis
 wished to be informed what was the quantity of land transferred to the hospital, and what the quantity let to col. Gordon.Mr. G. Vansittart
l.l. remarked upon the extraordinary nature of the proceeding in this case, where 5,000l.l.Mr. P. Moore
 said, that all who were interested in Chelsea Hospital, were greatly obliged to the hon. baronet for having brought forward this business. Of all the things wanted for an Infirmary, fresh air was the most requisite, and he hoped the building on this ground would not be permitted to proceed until some further inquiry was made. He also expressed his wish that the terms on which the lease had been purchased by the Treasury from lord Yarborough, should be stated, because this appeared necessary for the purpose of comparison, and would contribute materially to the attaining of correct views on the subject. He even thought it might be advisable to move for the proper documents on that point.Mr. P. Moore
 observed, that there was a special provision in the lease granted to col. Gordon, that he should not build or plant in any way to inconvenience the infirmary. So that particular care was taken to guard against such evil as the hon. baronet had alledged to exist.Mr. Long
3736 rose and said, that as one of the Commissioners for superintending the concerns of Chelsea Hospital, he felt it his duty to pay every possible attention to the comforts of the meritorious persons resident therein; and he was certain that such also was the feeling of all his col-
3736Mr. Long
41 was glad that the atten-
41Mr. Biddulph
 stated at the bar, that the Admiralty had found it necessary to issue its Warrant to take rear admiral Harvey into custody, in order to stand his trial before a Court-Martial, under charges of a breach of naval discipline, exhibited against him by lord Gambier. As admiral Harvey was a member of she house, it had been thought a mark of just respect to state the circumstance, and lay a Copy of the Warrant on the table.—The Speaker ordered the Warrant to be delivered in at the table.—The clerk read the Warrant, which purported that the proper officer was to take admiral Harvey into custody, and to bring him before a Court Martial, to be held at Portsmouth on Monday the 1st of May next, or as soon after as a Court Martial could be assembled, to answer to charges exhibited against him by lord Gambier. It also intimated, that it was not the intention of the Admiralty that the confinement of admiral Harvey should extend any farther than he should give his honour to appear before the court.Mr. Robert Ward
 rose pursuant to notice, to move for copies of the Minutes of the Treasury, assigning an Official Residence in Downing-street to the President of the Board of Controul. If the fact was true that such a residence had been assigned, he was prepared to contend that it was against law. In the mean time he should content himself with moving for the Minutes.—He moved accordingly.Mr. Creevey
 replied, that this would appear when the plan and the papers were before the house.Mr. Huskisson
45l., in moving for the other papers, said, that he need not trouble the house with much farther observation. He denied, however, that the Infirmary would be cooped up in the manner described by the hon. baronet. He stated that the sum which had been paid to lord Yarborough, upon the report of the Surveyor, was 5,00045l.Mr. Huskisson
38l.l. generally supported the argument and statement of Mr. Long, and stated further, that the plan of the infirmary had been transmitted to the Treasury by the governors, physician, and surveyor, and they had fixed on the spot as the most convenient and best situation. Whether they were as well able to judge and determine on that head, as the hon. hart, and the hon. seconder of the motion, he would not determine. The hon. baronet had mentioned the corner in which they were cooped up as not a twentieth part of the ground granted to col. Gordon. Now, the surveyors had on oath valued the land for the infirmary at 6,00038l.l.Mr. Huskisson
 informed the hon. baronet, that the land in question, though part of the Chelsea estate, from which the grant had been made by the crown to the Chelsea Hospital, had never been granted to that institution. A lease had been granted by the crown of this land to sir Robert Walpole, and it was the residue of the term so granted that had been bought up with the public money. That part, however, of the land, which was thought necessary for the Infirmary for the hospital, had been purchased to be transferred to the use of the hospital.Mr. Huskisson
 made some objections to the clause respecting the appointment of Assignees, to which he proposed making some amendments.Mr. Jacob
44 observed, that all that had been required for Chelsea hospital was granted. If those more particularly connected with the hospital had desired the whole of this ground, they would have had it. He could conceive no motive that could have induced them to ask less than was really wanted. The Treasury, he contended, had throughout strictly performed their duty, and had expressly restrained the lessee from building houses, or planting trees
44Mr. Sturges Bourne
3332 rose and stated
3332Sir C. Hamilton
 observed, that any mistake he might have fallen into had arisen from the imperfect statement of the hon. gent. himself.Sir John Newport
 wished to be informed why it was, that, when a subsisting interest had been bought up with public money, that part, of the land, which was not deemed necessary for the use of Chelsea Hospital, had been transferred to the crown lands, and not to the funds of the hospital, in as much as the lands had been originally granted for ever by the crown to the trustees of that institution?Sir John Newport
 said, that although the speech of his noble friend had rendered it less necessary for him to trouble the house, yet he wished to say a few words. As to the Bill alluded to by the right hon. gent., he could say nothing, as it was not before the house. It was rather strange, however, that the house should be told to act upon a measure of which they knew nothing; and even if its provisions were known, he submitted that the house must be legislating in the dark, without further inquiry. His lordship submitted that it was impossible for any gentleman to read these proceedings and not to see that farther inquiry must follow on them. The right hon. gent, had said, however, that though inquiry did follow, the law would nut reach the parties concerned. The house, however, he trusted, had more than one way of proceeding and would not allow its own labours to fail to the ground. If it was at all politic or convenient for the house to eater into the investigation of abuses: if every thing was fair and proper, the right hon. gent, himself ought to be the first to support the motion, and to convince the people that the abuses alledged did not exist. The right hon. gent, had said that he was afraid of continuing the ferment on the public mind; but as his noble friend had properly asked the right hon. gent, Which was the better way to allay this ferment; to go into, or to refuse to go into, the investigation of the abuses said to exist? The impression on the public mind was that these abuses did exist to a great degree. He called on the house to go into the inquiry, and if they did exist to punish the persons guilty of them; if not, to set the government to rights in the eyes of the people, by convincing them that it had been belied. This should be the conduct of the right hon. gent, whether he thought the abuses did exist or not. He ought, in either event, to feel anxious that the investigation should be gone into; and such, the noble lord insisted, would be his conduct, if he were not afraid of inquiry. On the contrary, he, the friend and associate of the alleged culprits, was found strenuously opposing investigation of every kind.Lord Folkestone
62. Sir; I hope that I shall not be accused of wishing to protect abuses, for there is no man in this house, not even the noble lord himself, more anxious to promote the punishment of corruption and abuses, wherever they can be proved to have existed, than myself. But I certainly will not agree to the adoption of the noble lord, because he takes for granted the existence of abuses in every branch and department of the government, without any proof whatever on the subject. The noble lord might with great facility have obtained his object by proposing other means than this motion for a Committee of General Inquiry. If he had followed the example of an hon. gent. (colonel Wardle) he might, by adhering to that line of proceeding, have obtained the most ample redress that he can wish or desire. In the motion brought forward by that hon. gent., a specific ground was stated, on which he meant to found the charges against the Duke of York. On that ground, so specifically stated, and on the statement of the nature of the evidence which he meant to adduce in support of his charges, the house of commons supported his proposition, and a committee was accordingly appointed, in conformity to his wishes and request. But I do not believe that there ever was an instance in which powers so unlimited and indefinite have been entrusted to a committee, merely because allegations have been made, and examinations taken on other matters tending to charge Corruption, out of which it is supposed that some fresh matter may arise. It cannot even be supposed that the house of commons, on such grounds only, will adopt a resolution which tends in fact and in substance to criminate every man in every department of the state. I find it impossible, on the occasion of so extraordinary a proposition, to content myself with a silent vote, and more especially when I see a disposition in some persons not in the house, to
62Mr. Ponsonby
63 could not content himself with a silent vote on a motion of this importance. He would support the motion of the noble lord, and would briefly state his reasons. He considered this as a most awful moment: he did not attribute improper motives to any man, but he had unfortunately long been of opinion that the system upon which the government had for some time acted, was not such as ought to be continued—and had the further misfortune to concur with many others, who thought that if it was continued the most calamitous consequences might ensue within a period, up to which, those in that house, who were not very old, might live. Therefore, great as was the inconvenience of granting those unlimited powers, which it was proposed to vest in this committee, he must, without any prejudice or partiality as to this or that government, rote for the noble lord's motion. Considering the
63Mr. C. H. Hutchinson
49, on the order of the day being read for taking into further consideration the Minutes of Evidence respecting the Conduct of the Duke of York, rose. He said, he should trouble the house only with a few words. Indeed, he thought it impossible that the house should not see the nature of the motion he had now to submit to them. The house would recollect that in the course of the Inquiry on which they had lately been engaged, other matters had come out not immediately affecting the Commander in Chief. It was obvious from the evidence which the house had heard, that great abuses prevailed in various departments of the state. He did not allude to the fact, that it had come out that improper uses had been made of the patronage of the East India Company, which had given rise to an Inquiry, which again had produced a voluminous Report, crowded with instances of the abuse of the patronage of that Company. The Evidence adduced before the Committee, also proved that abuses existed in other important departments of the state. It shewed that there were a certain number of men employed as agents in the disposal of offices in every department of the state. It was impossible for the house to allow such a scandalous practice to prevail without inquiry.
49Lord Folkestone
51 said, be could not allow the present motion to be put without declaring his opinion that it was by no means advisable for the house to agree to it. The noble lord grounded his motion on the Evidence brought before the Committee appointed to inquire into the Conduct of the Duke of York, on these two grounds, that by farther inquiry other individuals might be found out who might be brought to censure or punishment; and that such inquiry would prevent the recurrence of similar abuses in time to come. The noble lord seemed to think a general inquiry necessary without any specific grounds of charge being assigned. Now, he was of opinion, that such inquiry could not go to an investigation into the conduct of every individual who might have by chance been concerned in the disposal of any offices. There might be a variety of instances in which persons might have erected themselves into a sort of agency concern, misrepresenting themselves to be authorised by this person and the other who had power to dispose of offices, while with such persons they had no concern; and in this manner might procure money under the pretence of using their interest with the person who had the actual power of disposing of the office in question, while of this proceeding the person having the gift of the office was utterly ignorant. It might also happen, that the person who had the power of disposing of an office might, as in the case of Mr. Thellussen, give it to a near relation or friend in whom he had confidence, but which might be abused. If the Committee were to institute inquiries of this kind, they would be investigating what they had no right to punish. Any farther inquiry, therefore, he submitted, was not desirable. He asked, was it convenient or politic to set on foot an inquiry into all abuses that might or might, not have happened, for the sake of keeping the public mind in a ferment? (A laugh.) Gentlemen might, laugh. He was satisfied that there were, on the other side, gentlemen who would not agree with, him in this opinion. He believed that these gentlemen, from no improper feeling whatever, were of opinion that nothing was to be apprehended from the keeping alive this spirit among the people. He therefore was not surprised that they should differ from him. But, he had stated what he believed, that there was no reason to suppose that there were such abuses to be detected as those which the noble lord
51The Chancellor of the Exchequer
67 said, that considering the impression which the notice of the motion, given by the noble lord previous to the recess, had made out of doors, and the public expectation it appeared to excite, he felt it incumbent upon him to state his sentiments. It would not become a person filling the situation he did to give a silent vote. It would be impossible for him, consistent with his duty, and valuing the frame of the constitution as it stood, not to give his most marked and decided disapprobation of the motion. In opposing it, he did not oppose a motion for a specific inquiry into specific abuses, but he opposed a motion that had no relation whatever to it. A specific inquiry would have fastened on individuals, or abuses; but the object of a motion, so general and undefined as that before the house, could have no other purpose than to scatter general censure, to keep up a ferment in the public mind, and to do mischiefs beyond the apprehensions of those whose apprehensions were strongest. The noble lord had accused his right hon. friend of a disposition to screen abuses, and had reproved the remedy which was proposed by him to prevent confederacies out of doors, for the corrupt disposal of patronage. Another gentleman had pointed out to the noble lord objects for inquiry, which it appeared were already under examination. It did therefore appear that these manifold abuses, which were supposed to prevail in every department of the state, were not wholly without remedy. If these remedies were insufficient, why did not the noble lord say so, and propose those that might be more effectual? He deprecated the practice of pointing at government as the source of corruption. The effect of exaggerating this evil was, not to all ay but to perpetuate the public ferment. An hon. member under the gallery said, that the people had
67Mr. Secretary Canning
68. Sir; the right hon. gent, on the bench below me, has com-
68Lord Folkestone
52. Sir; I can by no means agree that the discoveries made in the course of the. Evidence brought before the house were of that loose and insignificant kind as to require no farther inquiry and elucidation. On the contrary, I consider farther inquiry indispensible. The right hon. gent, deprecates the idea of keeping the spirit of the people alive, or, as he terms it, in a ferment. The ferment will certainly be increased, and not diminished, if you attempt to stifle further inquiry. That ferment will, by such attempt, most certainly be still further inflamed. If corruption does exist, can the Chancellor of the Exchequer think that no danger is to be apprehended to this country? Does he think that, if such ferment really exists, it would not be more wise to detect, expose, and punish those abuses which are so Strongly suspected to exist? As to the alarming extent of the powers of this Committee—they are, it is true, extensive and general, but they may be revoked at the pleasure of this house.—With respect to the dangers to be apprehended from the fermentation in the minds of the people—those dangers, I will venture to assert, are infinitely less to be dreaded than what must ensue from the people discovering our unwillingness to prosecute inquiry into
52Lord Archibald Hamilton
54, agreeing as he did, with some of the observations of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, must differ from him in thinking that a prospective measure was all which the house or the country could require on a perusal of the evidence before them. Though he, therefore, agreed with the noble lord who brought forward the present motion in thinking that some farther inquiry, arising out of the evidence on the table, was not only proper but necessary, he must at the same time differ from him on the motion as worded. What he felt a reluctance in acceding to was in the extent of the trust which by the present motion parliament was called on to delegate to a committee. He came down to the house expecting that the motion would be for a reference to a committee to inquire into certain facts contained in the Minutes of Evidence, and pointed out by the house to the committee to be by them inquired into. As the motion stood, however, it would be for every member of that, committee to suggest to the committee what facts they should go into. This was a power which the noble lord contended could not be given to any committee, as the house was not entitled to part with any of the powers which it could exercise itself; and he submitted, if there was any power which it could delegate to a committee, which would not be better exercised by the house itself. If he looked to the motion, it extended to every thing, and to every department. He did not say that it would not be right that such investigation should take place, if the particular facts to be inquired into, and on which the reference to a committee was founded, were pointed out and referred to; but he could not agree to confide so general and extensive a power to any committee. His lordship was willing to support any specific motion, founded on any specific fact developed in the Minutes of Evidence, whether the motion were made by the noble lord or by any person else. In the present spirit of the public mind, he was disposed for inquiry of every kind; but when he looked to such instances as his memory furnished him with of the house instituting general inquiries, he could not forbear from thinking that they almost all proved abortive. His lordship particularly alluded to the Tory Administration in the reign of queen Anne, and the committee appointed to enquire
54Lord Henry Petty
 rose to explain. The noble lord observed, he had been entirely misapprehended; he had not said, nor did he mean to say, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had a wish to screen delinquency, or to prevent inquiring into abuses.Lord H. Petty
6059 remarked, that the house had certainly something to complain of with respect to the proceeding of the noble lord, who had not given a notice of that specific nature which the magnitude of the case required. For if he had been asked even ten minutes before he came into the house, what the nature of the noble lord's motion was, he would have said that the object was, leaving the duke of York out of the question, to refer some collateral points in the Evidence to a committee, to determine what further proceeding ought to be had on the evidence there stated. He did not think it altogether fair to come upon the house ail of a sudden with one of the most important steps that could possibly be suggested, considering the ferment into which the public mind had been thrown. The object of the motion was no less than to arraign the whole system of the government of the country through all its departments (Hear! hear! from the ministerial benches). He did not think that a motion of this vague and general complexion ought to be entertained. He admitted, that where a specific case was stated, it would be disgraceful to the house to blink it; but while the house attended, as it was bound to do, to the interests of the people, it would always recollect that it owed something to the government of the country (Hear! hear!). Was this a mode of proceeding which any one would venture to propose with regard to an individual? If not, why should a different principle be entertained with respect to the government? The noble lord, he supposed, had some cases in contemplation, for he could not imagine that he would propose the appointment of a committee without having something to lay before them. But why did he not tell the house what these cases were? He conceived it to be impossible to accede to a motion put in these general terms, embodying suspi-
6059Mr. Tierney
 observed, that if he understood the motion correctly, it went to an inquiry into all corrupt practices and abuses, without any restriction as to time, place, or circumstance. All abuses, at whatever distance of time, whether those concerned were dead or alive, might be brought before this committee, though those who might be able to explain or defend, might be in their graves. To such a motion he could not accede. The want of limitation, as to time, was a strong objection; but he fully agreed with the noble lord below (lord H. Petty), that it was improper to delegate to any committee that discretionary inquisitorial power, which belonged to the house itself. On every case brought before the house, it was customary to act from considerations of prudence, as well as with a view to abstract justice. In the first place, the house ought to be enabled to decide, whether the case was of sufficient magnitude to call for inquiry; and, secondly, whether the evidence stated was sufficient, if actually produced, to bring home the charge to the accused. He had heard that there might be cases brought forward, which had taken place in Ireland previous to the Union; cases which might affect lord Cornwallis and Mr. Pitt, who were in their graves. He was ready to say, that the greatest inconveniences would result from this. In short, there was no case, at whatever distance of time it might have occurred, which a committee, constituted as the noble lord proposed, could refuse to entertain. Such a motion could not be acceded to, and it had his decided opposition.Mr. C. Wynn
l.l.l.66 hoped the noble lord would receive back his motion, and bring forward some specific case. He understood, that his motion was to be of the nature described by his right hon. friend next to him (Mr. Tierney), that it would relate solely to some collateral matter arising out of the investigation of the charges against the Duke of York. If the noble lord had read the Eighth Report of the Commissioners of Military Inquiry, it was strange that he should have mentioned French's levy only as a subject of investigation. He might have found in that Report, that there were no less than twenty-one such levies.
l.l.l.66Mr. P. Moore
58575655.— I feel it. Sir, impossible to give a silent vote on a question of such high importance as the motion of the noble lord, and more especially as I conceive that what has been urged in the course of this debate, so far from amounting to a justification of the conduct of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, only tends more strongly to shew that a general inquiry is absolutely necessary. The existence of general abuses, is not now pretended to be denied—that time is gone by. In the levity of which the Chancellor of the Exchequer complained, in one part of Ls speech, I fell no disposition to concur; I am not disposed, at anytime, to treat with levity, any thing that is said by that right hon. gent., and least of all at this moment, when the serious situation in which we stand calls for our most serious and profound attention. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has acknowledged, that, if inquiry should be instituted, abuses might possibly be traced. This fact I take it, he has admitted—I shall, however, at any rate, myself assume it. Whatever may be the sentiments in this house, there can be no doubt, that out of it there is an universal feeling of the people, that various mal-practices would be brought to light by the institution of a general inquiry, such as that which has been moved for by the noble lord. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer has argued, that even admitting abuses to be discovered, he should think the appointment of a Committee useless.—'It is not,' says he, the 'punishment of past grievances which we should so ardently seek, as remedies and preventives of a repetition of such abuses. Against this, he tells us, it is the very object and foundation of his Bill to provide.
58575655Mr. Whitbread
 rose to give a brief statement of the grounds upon which he found himself compelled to dissent from the motion of the noble lord. He differed from him merely as to the mode of inquiry. The motion was so worded, its generality was of such a nature, that nothing like it was to be found in the history of parliament. He agreed with those who thought it more satisfactory that the cases which the noble lord had in contemplation should be stated to the house before they appointed the committee, that they might be aware of the nature of the reference to be made to the committee. As no specific charges were stated, he thought the motion very objectionable, and he felt it his duty, however reluctantly, to oppose it.Mr. Brand
65 did not conceive that there was any weight in the argument as to the suspicion which the motion was said to cast upon all the departments of government. An inquiry would be the most effectual way to do away those suspicions, if they turned out to be unfounded. That there was a strong suspicion in the
65Mr. Thomas Foley
61 observed, that he had come to the house prepared to vote for the noble lord's motion, under the impression that he meant to alledge specific charges against particular individuals. He was anxious to do so, both upon the justice of the case, and from the knowledge which every one must have of the suspicions prevailing in the minds of the people, who were calling loudly for inquiry. But finding that the motion of the noble
61Mr. Lethbridge
64.—Sir; the right hon. gent. below me, who made the charge against the noble lord, of not having stated in his notice the nature of his intended motion, can certainly not support that charge; for the noble lord did in his notice distinctly state, in substance, the nature of his motion; and that, too, in terms sufficiently explanatory to authorize him in bringing it forward in its present shape. Sir, I cannot agree with those gentlemen who object to the adoption of this motion, on the ground that it is of too general and indefinite a nature. The objects which are intended to be included in the inquiry are three; and they are certainly specifically stated. The first applies to the mode that was adopted of augmenting the army at the time of colonel French's levy being on foot; the next, to the illicit purchase and sale of commissions in the army; and the third, to the infamous traffick in the disposal of places in various departments of the State. The powers demanded for this Committee are therefore by no means of that general nature which has been asserted. It has been said that the Committee would have an object of inquiry to seek, as their labours would commence without having one before them But this I deny; for here are three specific objects, every one of which is specifically named, to which the inquiries of the Committee are proposed to be directed. I make these observations with a view of showing
64Mr. Parnell
 objected to the motion on account of its generality, and its assuming as a fact, that there existed abuses in all the departments of the state, in proof of which there was not a tittle of evidence. But the hon. gent, behind him (Mr. Hutchinson) Went farther, for he said, that the general system of the government was such as ought not to be continued. The house of commons was part of that system, and he, therefore, now called upon the house of commons to try itself. A gentleman under the gallery had said, that it was right to suspect persons in office: What right had he to suspect them? If he had any facts to produce, let him state them; but if he had no facts to state, then he had no right to suspect. As to the inadmissibility of the motion, he thought there could be no doubt upon that point. It went to inquire into one did not know what, and was utterly incompatible with any practical plan of conducting business. If particular facts were stated, it might be fair and reasonable to investigate; but at the same time he could not listen to vague and loose stories even against individuals. The proper plan was to send them to the Attorney-General, and not to place the justice of the country in the worst possible hands; not only in the hands of the house of commons, but what was still worse, in those of its Committees.Sir John Anstruther
 objected to the further progress of the bill, as tending materially to injure many, who had for a long time resided were the market now stands. It was rather singular, that all those who lived where the present market was held wished it to continue there, and all who lived where it was intended to remove it to, objected to such removal. With these sentiments he would move that the second reading of the Bill should be deferred to this day six months.Mr. Alderman Combs
73 said that the present market had been found much too confined to answer the purposes for which it had been originally intended. In former years, one hundred thousand head of cattle was generally the utmost which had been sent to it; but latterly this number was increased to more than one hundred and fifty thousand. The consequence of this increase was, the cattle were crouded to such a degree, that they not only injured themselves, but those who came for the purpose of buying or examining them. The city of London, sensibly feeling this great inconvenience, had made several efforts for some time past to enlarge the present market. It now consisted of four
73Mr. Rose
 expressed himself against the further progress of the bill.Mr. Lyttleton
 objected to its being allowed to go to a committee. He feared, if it were left to the decision of a committee, that the spot fixed upon would be chosen. He was at a loss to know why they should pitch upon this place, which was so particularly objectionable.Mr. C. H. Hutchinson
 said, that the city of London had abandoned the spot they had first fixed upon, and had instructed their counsel to that effect.Mr. Rose
74 said, that when the city of London expressed their wish to improve and beautify the metropolis, he felt a great desire to forward their views; but he hoped they would not attempt such improvement at the expence of private property. He was willing to accede to the second reading of the bill, but would not pledge himself to approve of any
74Mr. Ponsonby
 spoke in support of the Bill. He thought all the objections might be done away in the committee. A place in front of Gray's Inn had been chosen, on a declivity particularly well suited for the purpose, from whence drains could be readily formed to carry off the dirt into the Fleet river.Mr. Alderman Shaw
75 said, for his part, he really did not see how the worthy corporation could silence the beasts, unless in their wisdom they thought proper to send the city officers along with them. (A laugh). It was pretty evident, from the silence of the hon. baronet, that the city did not intend to relinquish the objectionable spot of ground. When the offer was made him of empowering the committee to insert a clause, prohibiting the selection of this plat of ground, he did not offer to give his assent to it. But the gentlemen of the city thought they would rather benefit this spot of ground. "Oh, such
75The Attorney General
l.,90 said, that though he agreed with the hon. gent, as to the eligibility of doing away the exchange between the two countries, yet he could not subscribe to the measure which he proposed, as he did not consider it calculated to produce the end; even if it were, he did not know by what legislative measure they could enforce the adoption of it. Remittances, however made, must be made in money, and both banks were tied up from issuing a guinea beyond a certain sum. He thought it impossible to put down the exchange altogether; perhaps the most they could expect was to prevent the fluctuations to which it was now subject. The hon. gent. recommended that the bank of England paper should be a legal tender in Ireland; but he (Mr. F.) would ask, was the bank of
l.,90Mr. Foster
 said, that the cause of the exchange between the two countries was, that one was in debt to the other, in which case, the exchange was always in favour of that which was the creditor. Ireland was much in debt to England.Mr. O'Hara
91 said, that though he entertained the greatest respect for every thing that fell from his hon. friend, who had, upon that occasion, displayed great ability and knowledge; still he was of opinion, that his plan would, after all, be attended with considerable difficulty, if it was not altogether impracticable. While the restriction with respect to the issuing of money from the Banks existed, he thought there was a great obstacle to it; nor did he think that the equalization of the coin would produce so great an effect upon the exchange as the hon. gent. seemed to think. A bill which had been brought forward by an hon. friend of his, the member for Waterford, (Sir J. Newport) per-
91Mr. Ponsonby
92 replied, that no such pledge had ever been given. As the best proof of this, he observed that he had introduced into the present bill words precisely similar to those in the bill alluded to by the noble lord, without the least intention that those words should carry with them any thing like a pledge. He should not consider it consistent with his public duty to make a proposition which should so tie up the future discretion of parliament.92Lord Castlereagh
 could see no difficulty in disposing of the supernumeraries in the Militia, even should it turn out, which he did not think it would, that the volunteering into the line would not be so extensive as the present bill anticipated. They might be added to the existing companies, or formed into additional companies.Lord Castlereagh
 maintained the clause as a fundamental part of the present military system of the country which preferred the ballot to recruiting by other means. He contended that the former was the surer mode of raising the men, and confessed he was not daring enough to try the experiment of recruiting recommended by the hon. gent. The experiment for one year was all he durst venture upon.Lord Castlereagh
 defended the introduction of it in the bill before the committee. He had been induced to extend the period before which the ballot was not to be resorted to, from six to twelve months; but he was completely of opinion, that if in the latter time the number of men required were not furnished by means of recruiting, it would be unwise not to secure them by other means.Lord Castlereagh
89d.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.d.d.s.s.s.,d.d.d.d.d.s.d.,s.88d.s.87d.d.d.*It is impossible that any arrangement of the value of these tokens, could have been more against the spirit and advice of the report of the Committee than this, because 30d.d.d.l.d.d.,s.d.d.d.l.d.d.s.s.86d.d,d.s.l.l.l.l.l.d.85d.d.d.d.,s.s.d.84838281807978d.s.l.77*The commission and interest charged on bills drawn at Bristol, Liverpool, &c. on London, not being considered in the nature of an exchange.l.,76; I rise, Sir, for the purpose of moving that the house do resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, to take this Report into consideration; and if the house shall think proper to accede to this motion, I shall then submit to the committee the following Resolution: "That it is expedient that the Coin of the United Kingdom shall be of the same standard and value as the Coin now is of Great Britain."—It appears to me, Sir, that the difference which now exists between the currencies of Great Britain and Ireland contributes to keep alive a feeling of separation and distinction between the inhabitants of these countries, very inconsistent with their mutual prosperity: that it gives a character to the respective parts of the United Kingdom that belongs rather to countries foreign to each other than to members of the same community, a character by no means belonging to the spirit of real union and the true interests of the peo-
89d.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.d.d.s.s.s.,d.d.d.d.d.s.d.,s.88d.s.87d.d.d.*It is impossible that any arrangement of the value of these tokens, could have been more against the spirit and advice of the report of the Committee than this, because 30d.d.d.l.d.d.,s.d.d.d.l.d.d.s.s.86d.d,d.s.l.l.l.l.l.d.85d.d.d.d.,s.s.d.84838281807978d.s.l.77*The commission and interest charged on bills drawn at Bristol, Liverpool, &c. on London, not being considered in the nature of an exchange.l.,76Mr. Speaker
 repeated his objections to the bill, on the ground of the pledge which had been given to the country in a former bill, which pledge the adoption of the present bill would forfeit.Lord A. Hamilton
 was by no means satisfied that the different militia regiments would furnish the quotas required from them for the line; without speaking positively as to the fact in general, he knew one regiment which failed in furnishing its quota.Lord A. Hamilton
 opposed the ballot, as productive of great mischiefs.Mr. Giles
—36Majority
—36Majority37Against it
37Against it1For the clause
1For the clause
—36Majority
—36Majority37Against it
37Against it1For the clause
1For the clause—25Majority
—25Majority9Against it
9Against it34For it
34For it
—25Majority
—25Majority9Against it
9Against it34For it
34For itl.—40Majority
—40Majority2Against it
2Against it52For the original clause
52For the original clause
—40Majority
—40Majority2Against it
2Against it52For the original clause
52For the original clause explained. Whether friend to the ballot, or recruiting, he would equally object to the noble lord's plan and take the sense of the house upon the present clause.—The committee then divided,
—36Majority
—36Majority37Against it
37Against it1For the clause
1For the clause
—36Majority
—36Majority37Against it
37Against it1For the clause
1For the clause—25Majority
—25Majority9Against it
9Against it34For it
34For it
—25Majority
—25Majority9Against it
9Against it34For it
34For itl.—40Majority
—40Majority2Against it
2Against it52For the original clause
52For the original clause
—40Majority
—40Majority2Against it
2Against it52For the original clause
52For the original clauseMr. Giles
 objected to this as the worst possible mode of recruiting the army, and by no means to be compared to recruiting by the officers of government.Mr. Giles
 observed, that he understood that the city of London was in treaty for the particular spot in question. His principal objection was to the spot to which it was intended to remove the market.Mr. Horner
 seconded the amendment. If this bill, he said were to pass into a law, the greatest inconveniences would arise from driving cattle through the streets leading to the projected market. Many individuals in the neighbourhood of the ground chosen for this purpose, would also suffer severely, by being in a great measure prevented from letting their houses. He knew of one individual, a Mrs. Doughty, possessed of upwards of one hundred and forty houses in that quarter, the loss to whom would be immense, some thousands, were the proposed measure carried into execution. He said it was absolutely impossible for them to find out any better spot than the present scite.Mr. H. Martin
 said, that he was a member of the committee to which the hon. gent. had referred, but when the committee recommended the measure he had quoted, they had a view to an antecedent measure, which did not take place.Mr. H. Thornton
 thought the city of London should point out the spot where they would remove the market, before they had his vote. He had no right to trust them, if they would not trust him.Mr. Fuller
 said, his objections went to the way in which the bill originated. It was introduced without the parties interested having notice of their intention, and was an injustice to those individuals. How was it to be remedied? to be changed to some other place, where the people had notice of it? But then it was said, their interests might be guarded by regulations. He thought it the wisest course to reject the bill altogether. The mode he conceived fittest for removing such an annoyance as this market, would be to appoint a committee of indifferent persons, who might lay down some plan, which could have the effect desired. He believed such an annoyance was not to be found in the heart of another city in the world.Mr. Barham
 opposed the original motion. A worthy Alderman had said that the injury from driving the cattle might be prevented by putting up bars. He wondered he did not also provide against their making a noise.Mr. Whitbread
 allowed that it would be a desirable object to assimilate the course of exchange, but did not think the measure before them calculated to effect it.Mr. D. Giddy
 objected to the bill. If the evil were removed from one place, it was not unlikely it might become equally objectionable. A place had been named, which would seriously affect the Gray's Inn Society.Mr. Mellish
 ridiculed the expectation that the recruiting could proceed successfully with a small bounty, while the men willing to enlist had in prospect the period when the operation of the ballot would necessarily cause a great augmentation of bounty. The argument of the noble lord was, as if he should say to such men. "Come, come, my lads, make haste, take 12 guineas, for if you don't, you will be very soon compelled to take 40."—(A laugh.)—Nothing could be more unfounded than the hopes that under circumstances like these the recruiting would flourish.Mr. Windham
 supported the bill, and urged the necessity of its being allowed to go to a committee.Sir C. Price
 said, that he wished to set himself right in the conception of the house, in a few parts of his statement, in which he had been misapprehended. He was always aware that bank paper was not a legal tender, and he thought he had guarded against the appearance of any intention of making it so, as his words were "as legal a tender in Ireland as in England," not simply a legal tender. As to what the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Foster) had said, his whole argument was founded on a misconception. When he proposed to call in the coin, he did not intend that it should be done until new coin was prepared to supply its place. As to what had been objected against the assimilation of the coin, &c. as inadequate to keep down the exchange, they would find that it had succeeded in Scotland; and with respect to the objection of time, the present state of exchange, as he had said before, rendered it peculiarly appropriate.Mr. Parnell
 desired that the Report of a Committee appointed in 1804, to enquire into the State of Ireland, as to its Circulating Paper, its Specie, and current coin, and the Exchange between that part of the United Kingdom and Great Britain, should be read, and the same having been entered by the clerk as read, the hon. gent. addressed the house as follows;—Mr. Parnell
 observed, that in a regiment which he had the honour to command, the quota to be furnished by the bill would not even supply the deficiencies occasioned by the volunteering, for the latter amounted to 550, while the former did not exceed 531 men.—The clause was eventually agreed to.Colonel Wood
 contended that it was better that, according to the law as it now stands, the bankrupt's certificate should depend on the judgment of the creditors than of the Lord Chancellor. He cited to this effect the opinions of lord Thurlow, lord Rosslyn, and lord Clare, who had been all of them chancellors. He thought that in this bill humanity appeared to be confined to the bankrupts, and that the sufferings of the creditors had not been sufficiently attended to. If, however, the clause should be rejected, he would move that instead of four-fifths of the creditors, three-fourths of the creditors, and of those only who had released the person of the bankrupt, should be sufficient for signing the certificate.The Solicitor General
99 said, that the hon. and learned gent. had misstated what lord Eldon had said about the opinions of lords Thurlow, Rosslyn, and Clare. What they had said was, that it would be dangerous to leave the determination of the certificate entirely to the Chancellor. The present clause, however, did no such thing: it only empowered the Chancellor to interfere if he thought proper, upon a petition presented by a bankrupt who had been two years without his certificate. Now, as to fraudulent bankrupts, all those who had any experience in the court of chancery knew that they obtained their
99Sir Samuel Romilly
 moved the Order of the day for the second reading of this bill.Mr. Foster
96 said, that in respect to the assessed taxes, the sub-commissioners, and the distilleries, it was his intention to bring forward measures immediately for meeting the complaints contained in the reports. That steps had been taken with good effect already to do away the abuses that existed in the coasting trade, landing goods on bills of view, and the collection of the auction duties.—That the mode of stating the collectors accounts was very truly pointed out as defective, and that measures should be adopted for reforming it.—That in respect to the conduct of the inferior officers of the revenue, he should propose to grant an amnesty of all transgressions up to the period of the late regulations for increasing their salaries, nearly the whole of them having taken fees under the former system, in consequence of the smallness of their salaries and legal emoluments.—That, however, it was the fixed determination of the government to act without any regard to persons and services in punishing any officer who should hereafter take a fee. The right hon. member said that in regard to the distilleries, he had last year, in compliance with the wishes of many persons, admitted stills of 800 gallons to be used, but that it would answer no end to make any alteration in the existing laws till a complete reformation took place in the conduct of the inferior officers; that he was glad the hon. member
96Mr. Foster
 said, that it was absolutely necessary that something should be done to put down the illicit distillation, and protect the people of his part of the country from the great rigor of the distilling laws.Col. Archdall
l. said, it was with great reluctance he ever differed from his right hon. friend, but he must say that be thought the fining of counties for illicit stills discovered in them was a most unjust proceeding.—That 15,600l.Col. Barry
 expressed the same opinion.—The bill was then read a second time.Mr. O'Hara
9897, in order to obviate an objection, which he understood was to be made to the clause for allowing bankrupts who may have obtained their certificates to be witnesses, without any release of their allowances, in cases where their assignees were claimants, proposed an amendment, to provide that bankrupts were not to be allowed to be admitted as witnesses under this act, but in such cases wherein they may by law be competent witnesses before the passing of this act.—The effect of this amendment was to allow bankrupts to be witnesses upon releasing their interest in the particular matter in issue, without a general release of their allowances upon the other property assigned under the commission.9897Sir S. Romilly
100 said he was rather anxious not to admit this clause than to dispute it; but till he could put the bankrupt law on a footing which should protect the fair trader, he could not agree to adopt it.100Mr. Wilson
 contended that the great proportion of uncertificated bankrupts being three-eighths of the whole number, proved that the interference of parliament was necessary. This proportion was much the greatest in years of unexampled misfortune; and this circumstance went strongly to prove, that it was not merely the dishonesty of debtors, but their misfortunes, which were punished by stopping their certificates.Mr. Stephen
95l.l.l.l.94 said, that he did not intend to oppose this motion; but he wished
95l.l.l.l.94Mr. Parnell
102 rose for the purpose of making his promised motion, relative to the Convention and Armistice in Portugal. He wished particularly to call the attention of the house to some political circumstances, by which it would appear, that some opinions of gen. Bernardine Freire, with respect to the Armistice concluded in Portugal, coming to this country before the dispatches of sir Hew Dalrymple, had tended to prejudice the public mind against that officer. A plain statement of the circumstances would tend to shew things in, perhaps, their proper colours. Sir Hew Dalrymple, it appears, landed in Portugal the day after the battle of Vimiera, and had proceeded, not from England, where he might obtain exact information in every point of view, but from Gibraltar, where he must necessarily have been uninformed. He had not been in the country above an hour and a half, when general Kellerman arrived with a flag of truce; in this situation, he of course was under the necessity of being completely guided and governed by the officers whom he found on the spot; he then, under their guidance, concluded an Armistice, with a view to negociate a Convention, and a copy of this Armistice he communicated to gen. Freire, for the purpose of ascertaining his sentiments upon it. What was the consequence of this highly political step? Why, gen. Freire, to whom sir Hew Dalrymple had sent the Armistice, in order to profit by his judgment on it, immediately wrote off to ministers here, the most unfounded comments concerning it! This was made public here, and tended very much to inflame the public mind against sir Hew Dalrymple. He therefore thought it now material that his own letter on the subject to lord Castlereagh should be laid before the house. Sir Hew Dalrymple had not thought proper to avail himself of these
102Mr. Yorke
103 opposed the motion, on the ground that he had left it to the discretion of sir Hew Dalrymple, whether or not he would have those papers produced
103Lord Castlereagh
 wished to know why these premisses were not applied altogether to the accommodation of Chelsea Hospital, and to the Infirmary in particular; and also, why the gentlemen of that house, who were to judge of the propriety of their application, were prevented from seeing them?Sir O. Moseley
 observed, that the premisses had been purchased in order that what was necessary might be appropriated to the use of the Hospital. The hon. baronet, when he stated, that the order for excluding persons from the ground proceeded from the Commander in Chief, appeared to him to proceed upon supposition, having heard the order disclaimed on the part of the Treasury and the Pay Office. If he could venture, without having- any information upon the subject, to make a conjecture, the order had been given by the person having a right to the possession of the ground. If any order had been given to exclude members of parliament, it would have been both improper and foolish. But when it was considered how pointedly public attention had been lately drawn to this piece of land, within a mile and a half of this metropolis, it would be obvious how desirable it must be to keep out the great number of persons who might wish to visit the place. He did not think it expedient that a case of this description should day after day continue to occupy the attention of the house, when the most that could be said in the worst view that could be taken of the case was, that there might have been some irregularity in the inferior agent employed in the progress of the transaction.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 justified his hon. friend (Sir Oswald Moseley) in having stated the report, which he had heard, that the order of exclusion had been given by the Commander in Chief, which he had done only to give the right hon. gentlemen opposite an opportunity of contradicting the rumour if they could. He had risen, however, to ask whether the grant of colonel Gordon had been perfected, so as that by law it could not be avoided; because if so, colonel Gordon having the right to the land, might still erect his house in the very situation, which, it was allowed on all hands, would be inconvenient for the hospital. [It was here stated across the table, that the agreement and grant were conditional that no house should be erected in a situation inconvenient to the hospital.] Well, then, the attempt to erect a building in such a situation was a violation of the condition, and no inquiry had taken place respecting it, until the subject had been brought under the consideration of the house by the hon. baronet, not then in his place. The secretary to the treasury, too, had stated on a former night, that the whole of the ground was such, that a house could not be built upon any part of it, except the spot which had been chosen for the intended house; and yet it now appeared that another situation fit for building upon could be found upon the land.Mr. Ponsonby
because the person holding the seat had not been willing to comply with the stipulation on which he received it.115114 said, the present bill professed to check abuses in the Sale of Offices in every department of the coun-
because the person holding the seat had not been willing to comply with the stipulation on which he received it.115114Lord Folkestone
118 said he could not help congratulating himself a little on the declaration of the noble lord (Folkestone), that he was satisfied that any obscurity which was to be found in the bill proceeded from a wish on his part to make the act comprehensive. If there was any obscurity, he hoped it would be removed, and this might in some measure be effected by introducing and incorporating into the present Bill the Enactments of the act of Edward the 6th, rather than by referring to that act. The objection that the Bill only went to increase the difficulty in committing the crime sought to be prevented, he suspected, would apply to every bill. He had even attempted to do away the temptation to commit the crime, by annexing forfeiture of office to the detection of it. As to the omission of offices in our courts of law, he suspected the noble lord had not calculated the disadvantages which would arise to counterbalance any good arising from their being comprehended under the present bill. Never was the administration of justice more pure in this or any other country than at the present moment. However much we might be surprised, therefore, that the sale of offices in our courts of law should ever have formed any part of the emoluments of our judges, yet having done so for ages, and it following as a necessary consequence, if the sale of these offices were now to be abolished, that some remuneration must be granted instead of them, the question was, if the inconveniences arising from a fresh call on the country on this account, and other disadvantages with which the alteration would be attended, would not greatly outweigh the advantages to be expected from it? There were also a certain description of patent offices granted for life, with the privilege of disposing of other offices connected therewith. These he had also omitted out of the bill, as for them too, if the sale was to be prevented, an equivalent must also be given. He did not believe the advantages to be derived from introducing these into the bill would at all equal the disadvantages attending it.—There was only one other point in the noble lord's speech to which he felt it necessary for him to advert, namely, that no provision had been introduced into the bill
118The Chancellor of the Exchequer
104 generally differed from the hon. mover on the subject of the Convention of Cintra, which he did not consider as at all honourable or advantageous to the country. He often found it the case that where men very strenuously
104Lord Ossulston
 rose in some warmth to repel the insinuations of the noble lord; he had held a seat in that house much longer than the noble lord, and was as warmly interested both for the country and constitution. He had been educated in the principles of the Old Whig School, and was as zealously attached to the interests of the people as the noble lord, or any of his ancestors.Mr. Yorke
de facto, rose to put a question to a right hon. gent, opposite, as to the interpretation of the Treaty entered into with Spain, that part of it, he meant, which went to bind his majesty to an alliance with the Spanish Government. He would read to the house from a paper he held in his hand, the passage of which he now sought the explanation, it ran thus, "His Britannic Majesty engages to continue to assist to the utmost of his power the Spanish Nation in their struggle, against the tyranny and usurpation of France, and promises not to acknowledge any other king of Spain, and of the Indies thereunto appertaining, than his catholic majesty Ferdinand the Seventh, his heirs, or such lawful successor as the Spanish nation shall acknowledge." Now in his judgment, this might admit of either of two interpretations, and yet he was not at all prepared to say, whether either of those two interpretations was such a one as the treaty itself was meant to bear: one, that it admitted of, was that the king was bound to acknowledge Ferdinand, and no other in any event, as king of Spain; the other, of which it might equally admit, was, that the king was bound to admit as the successor of Ferdinand a king de facto,Mr. Ponsonby
ipso facto105 replied, that the Treaty in question was not meant to bear either of the two interpretations mention-
ipso facto105Mr. Secretary Canning
106 said, that as far as related to the divided claim to the crown of Spain eventually, and the doubts upon that subject among the Spanish jurists, he knew nothing of either till the right hon. gent. had then informed him. With respect to the nature of the contract entered into between the two countries, he was ready to admit the explanation of the right hon. gent, to be perfectly satisfactory; but, in giving this opinion, he did not thereby pledge himself to an approbation of the Treaty itself, or the grounds upon which it had been entered into. The next question he had to ask was in reference to a Letter from Mr. Frere to sir John Moore, dated Talavera de la Reyna, Dec. 3, 1808, and beginning, "Sir; In the event which
106Mr. Ponsonby
 rose to order; though the right hon. gent, had said full enough to tempt him to enter into some justification of the conduct of his right hon. friend, as well as from a sense of public duty as the motives of private friendship, he should, however, forbear, provided the right hon. gent. would stop there, and confine himself to the putting of any question he might think proper to propose.Mr. Secretary Canning
 admitted that the right hon. gent was right, and that he was wrong. The questions he had to put were—He wished to know the name of the bearer of this letter from Mr. Frere to sir John Moore; who this messenger was, and what the nature of his message?Mr. Ponsonby
 replied, that he could give no answer to the latter part of the right hon. gent.'s question, as he himself was not aware of the nature of the message. As to the name of the messenger, he must be excused if he declined answering that; but he believed his right hon. friend, in requesting that the messenger might be examined before a council of war, did so, not with any view of questioning the military authority or judgment of sir John Moore, but that the council might have every advantage of any extraordinary information possessed by a person so lately coming from Madrid, and an eye-witness of the scenes passing at such a distance.Mr. Secretary Canning
 said that the instructions could be best learned from the papers that might be laid before the house referring to this subject. As to the nativity of the messenger, he believed, as was more probably the case, that he was a native of the country where he acted.Mr. Secretary Canning
 replied, that all the correspondence between sir John Moore and Mr. Frere, that had reached his office, was either in copies or extracts before the house. He took that opportunity of moving, That there be laid before the house copies of all the notes which had been exchanged between the Spanish minister and the Secretary of State relative to certain Articles of the Spanish Treaty.—Ordered.Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, that in order fully to satisfy his mind with regard to the premisses in question, he sought to see them on Monday last; but was informed by a person who had the care of the gate, and also by the workmen who were employed about the place, that it was as much as their employments were worth to admit any one. He was, therefore, refused admission, although he stated that he was a member of that house, and also the object of his visit. The refusal surprised him the more, as he understood from other quarters, what had been confirmed by the hon. gent. who had just sat down, that any or all persons connected with government promptly obtained admission.Mr. Maxwell
109 rather wished to suppose that the gentlemen on the other side were unaware of the very exceptionable character of the whole of this transaction. The hon. baronet to whom the merit was due of bringing it before the house, was unfortunately unable, from indisposition, to attend since its original
109Sir Oswald Moseley
 decided, that if the motion of the hon. baronet was to call upon the house to rejudge what it had already adjudged this session, it was inconsistent with the practice of the house to entertain it. It would be for the hon. baronet to state whether such was his object.The Speaker
111 observed, that this was only the second time this subject had been under discussion. The effect of the first discussion had been that the scite of the house had been changed; and the advantage that would result from the second would be, that the bar placed against the admission of members, by some invisible hand, would now be removed. He had heard from the nearest relation of the noble lord, that he wished to get a renewal of his lease, but that ministers refused, and stated, that they wanted the
111General Tarleton
 said, although he would not object to the motion, yet he could not help thinking it would not have any beneficial effect in justifying that disgraceful Convention, nor any of those connected with it. This general succeeded to the command of an army, equal if not superior to the French, in cavalry, in infantry, and in spirit. These were opposed to an army composed of bad materials, for the army of Junot, it must be recollected, were not like the army of Spain; in short, it was such an army as might very likely have triumphed over the Portuguese, but not over the British forces. He should be sorry to hear any officer expressing himself as that right hon. gent, had done, for although he (Mr. Yorke) had been Secretary at War, he appeared to have a very different tinge of mind from any military person as to military transactions. Many officers had told him that a great and pernicious effect had been produced in Spain, in consequence of the previous Convention of Cintra; and this he believed, as it could not be deemed honourable for any officer to go with the placard of Cintra about his neck. Never were there 28,000 men of a finer description than those employed under sir Hew Dalrymple, and yet we had nothing like the Convention of Cintra that stood in the annals of the British history. God forbid that we should ever look upon it in any other view than as most disgraceful; for he would rather place his hand in the fire, than put it to such a Convention as that was. The letter called for had not been transmitted till eleven days after the Convention of Cintra, and he thought that the generals ought to be condemned for their delay in sending dispatches.General Tarleton
 did not doubt the statement made by the right hon. gent.; but he was surprised, if that had been the case, that the circumstance had never been mentioned until this day. If he remembered what passed on the former occasion, not a word of this had been stated, and he even was persuaded that it had been said that the physician and surgeon of the hospital approved of the scite of the house.Mr. C. Wynn
 said, that though this was not the time to argue the clauses of the bill, yet he could not but observe that the provision against the sale of Offices in the law departments should not be included in the present bill, as the adjustment of the remuneration, which undoubtedly must be made on the abolition, was a subject of great importance, and fitting for a substantive measure in itself, whereas introducing it now, would, in his opinion, rather tend to check the progress of a measure they had all so much at heart. With respect to the clause in the bill, dismissing from their situations, such as obtained them through the medium of corrupt practices, however innocent of the existence of the means, he could by no means approve of it, as a principle equally contrary to justice and humanity.Mr. C. Wynn
 explained, that such a measure did not come recommended from the Committee upon East India Affairs, but was a positive rule laid down in their regulations.Mr. Bankes
116 said, the East India Patronage Committee had not expressed any opinion, that sales of offices in the service of that Company should be exempted from the operation of the present Bill, but only that there was no necessity for any separate and specific legislative measure applicable to that Company. They had done so the more particularly on this account, because the East India Company were already armed with greater powers than those which the country possessed;
116Mr. Bankes
 agreed in the propriety of including the purchaser of seats in that house among the offences of the bill, as it would be unfair to inflict a punishment upon minor offences, and at the same time to pass over those of greater turpitude and mischief. The nature and extent of the remedy itself would be best considered when the clause for that purpose was brought in.Mr. H. Thornton
112 felt himself bound in justice to his hon. friend to state that he went on Tuesday to inspect the ground, and had been refused admittance, and, as he was informed, by order of col. Gordon. He rang the bell, when a boy came out and informed him, that he had positive orders
112Mr. Calcraft
113 thought, that as many members had been prevented from inspecting this ground, it would be desirable that the house should, on some future day, be made acquainted with the person who had given the order for exclusion: it required explanation, why, when a suspicion had been excited respecting the grant of this land, members had been refused the power of
113Mr. Barham
 contended that he had stated the circumstance, and added that it was I he scite of the Infirmary that was said to have been approved of by the physician and surgeon of the hospital.Mr. Long
 professed to be unaware of any orders prohibiting the admittance of the hon. gent., or any other member, from viewing the premisses alluded to. He had seen those premisses, and he thought the projected erection exceptionable; at the same time, he begged it to be understood, that no person connected with the Hospital either in a civil, military, or medical department, had communicated any objection with regard to this building, up to the very day upon which the hon. baronet had made his motion. The consideration of the lease granted to colonel Gordon, was, that he should not raise any building, or even plant any tree likely to create any inconvenience to the Hospital. When the papers explanatory of the whole proceeding were laid before the house, he had no doubt that the conduct of the Treasury would meet with its approbation.Mr. Long
 said, he had asked the last question because he had it in contemplation to offer a motion to the house for the removal of Mr. Frere.Mr. Whitbread
 asked, what were the powers and instructions given to Mr. Frere, and whether the messenger alluded to already was a Frenchman or an Englishman?Mr. Whitbread
 called the hon. baronet to order, as he understood his object to be to induce the house to reverse a solemn decision it had come to in this session, which was contrary to the usage of parliament.Mr. Whitbread
121120 said, he was so well pleased with part of what had fallen from a right hon. gent. (Mr. Perceval,) that he should say the less on that part to which he objected. He was happy to observe, that the right hon. gent. agreed with the noble lord, that the practice of trafficing for money in seats in that house was a scandalous abuse; one which should not be allowed; and that the right lion. Gent. would meet the inquiry and expose the practice wherever it should be seen to exist. He hoped, however, as the right hon. gent. called on others to expose the practices of other administrations, that he would not be backward in stating all that he knew of his own administration. It was impossible that the right hon. gent. could be ignorant of the abuses which existed. Every person knew that abuses did exist, and there were few who did not know, more or less, of the nature and quality of them. The public knew well, many members of the house knew well, that there were in that house persons who represented nothing but their own money; that there were some, who were not even then free agents, but that there was occasionally such a thing as conscience in the transaction, which sometimes forced them to abandon both their seat and their money too. Why, then, he asked, should the right hon. gent. use these tauntings, when the practice was well known, even to himself, to exist? The right hon. gent. talked of Hampshire. It was the right hon. gent.'s fortune on that occasion, which it had been during only a very small period of his life, to be in a minority. He seemed on that occasion to be impressed with a belief, which he (Mr. W.) had felt a great deal more frequently, that minorities were not always in the wrong. But to reconcile himself to this one misfortune, he could only recommend to the right hon. gent. to look to all the rest of his political life, and from thence he would be convinced that majorities were not always in the right. There, too, (in the case of Hampshire) he would find that the Secretary of the Treasury was a freeholder of the county. But that in general Secretaries of the Treasury for the time being were not only in the habit, but
121120Mr. Whitbread
117notoriously bought and sold by the Treasury. said, that the noble lord was perfectly correct in stating, that Seats in Parliament had been 117notoriously bought and sold by the Treasury.Mr. Creevey
119, in explanation, said, that
119Mr. Creevey
 had only stated, that a great part of the ground could not be built upon; he had not, nor could he have said, that it was such that the proposed building might not be removed a little to the right or to the left of the situation first marked out.Mr. Huskisson
108 took occasion to call the attention of the house to a subject which, in consequence of the motion of an hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett), had on a former evening produced so much discussion. That motion had been submitted upon Friday; and, as from the statement preceding it there was some reason to apprehend that the building about to be erected by colonel Gordon, would interfere with the comfort and convenience of the hospital, he had thought it his duty to survey the place. This duty he felt due to the house and to the hon. baronet, and accordingly he visited the grounds alluded to. The result of this visit was that colonel Cordon's house being about to be erected upon a scite very inconvenient for the infirmary, he felt dissatisfied; and so far he agreed with the hon. baronet. But yet he wished it to be understood, that this discovery involved no contradiction of the statement he had on a former evening submitted to the house with regard to the conduct of the Treasury. In consequence, however, of this discovery, he thought proper to take a lord of the Treasury to view the premisses, and the effect of that visit was that upon a consultation with, and a recommendation from the governors of the Hospital and the medical gentleman attending it, supported by the opinion of the Surveyor General, the scite of col. Gordon's house was removed. But still he wished it to be understood, that this removal did not take place on account of any change of opinion on the part of the Treasury, with regard to the grounds originally laid before them. To the grounds
108Mr. Huskisson
110 declared, that he had read the whole of the correspondence with lord Yarborough upon this purchase, and that no such consideration as that alluded to by the hon. baronet had the slightest influence. The only object being, on the part of the noble lord, to obtain the highest price for the ground. Before, indeed, it was proposed to dispose of it to government, a proposition was made to sell it for the purposes of a wharf, but according to the opinion of Mr. Copland, such a disposition of it could not be made. That proposition therefore was abandoned. But with regard to the manner in which the ground was now to be disposed of he was enabled to say, that no person whatever connected with the Hospital objected to the place in which it was proposed to build colonel Cordon's house; no one pretending to say that this ground was necessary to be appropriated in any manner to the accommodation of the Hospital; that the free circulation of air to the Infirmary, or the proper ornament of the Hospital, was likely to be interfered with by the proposed structure. The propriety, indeed, of guarding against any such interference, had, in consequence of some intimation from another quarter, occupied the consideration of the Treasury before the hon. baronet had made his motion upon the
110Mr. Huskisson
101 presented a Petition from Daniel Butler, the Sheriff's officer, by whom he had been arrested, and who had been confined in Newgate, in consequence of such a breach of the privileges of Parliament. The Petition stated, That the petitioner with all humility and contrition, most humbly begs pardon of the house, and particularly of sir Charles Hamilton, bart., the hon. member whom he so grossly and personally insulted on Wednesday the 12th day of this instant April, as appears by the Votes of the house as follows; "That, on Wednesday last, about half an hour after three of the clock in the afternoon, he was arrested in his own house by the said Daniel Butler (an officer of the Sheriff of Middlesex), and that he was insulted by him for endeavouring to convince him that he was not the person specified in the writ, in breach of the privileges of this house;" upon which Complaint the petitioner was by the house committed to Newgate; and that the petitioner has been an officer to the Sheriff of Middlesex ten years, in which situation he trusts he has conducted himself with the strictest propriety; and intentionally to give any offence, or to attempt to arrest any hon. member of this house, is the last thing he could think of, well knowing how they are privileged; but this unfortunate mistake arose from the instruction he received from a brother-officer, who requested the petitioner to execute the said writ for him, it being a practice for one officer to oblige another in that way; and the petitioner had a paper to that effect in his hand when at the bar of the house on Friday last; and that the petitioner, after he was so committed, in the lobby of the house expressed his sorrow and contrition to the said sir Charles Hamilton for the great offence he had committed on his person in so arresting him for another baronet of the said name, the writ being for a sir John Charles Hamilton; and the petitioner begs to state that he has a wife and seven
101Sir Charles Hamilton
 moved, that he be brought to the bar of the house to-morrow, for the purpose of being discharged.—Agreed to.Sir C. Hamilton
, supposing that the letter from Mr. Frere to sir John Moore was in answer to one from that general, wished to know whether there would be any objection to the production of that letter.Colonel Wood
, in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, was aware of the difficulty in which he was placed by the late proceeding in that house respecting gen. Clavering. If he were not convinced of the importance of the question not only to the justice of that house, but to the liberty of the subject, he should be the last man to appeal to the magnanimity of parliament, or claim its indulgence for a proposition for altering a former decision. In doing this, however, he was solely actuated by a regard to justice, and for the character of that house, as he was wholly unacquainted with the connections of the officer to whose case he was to refer. The hon. baronet then proceeded to state, that if he had been present at the discussion, he should have employed his humble efforts, though he durst not flatter himself he should have been successful, to dissuade the house from the decision it had come to. He then contended that prevarication could not apply to the evidence given by that officer, and was proceeding to an examination of the evidence in the printed minutes, in order to establish that point, whenSir T. Turton
, after several ineffectual attempts to establish the regularity of the course he proposed, and upon being distinctly informed from the chair that it was highly irregular, was at length induced to wave his motion altogether.Sir T. Turton
187 observed, that if the subject should be again brought forward, justice would be done to the officers of the courts. The hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread) had stated certain practices, which, if they had existed, would unquestionably have deserved the severest censure. But on these points his hon. friend had been very much misinformed. He said, that he had been informed, that when a jury
187The Attorney General
 said that he had given verdicts against the crown, but that he had been constantly summoned.Mr. Maryatt
189ex officio observed, that this was one of the most important cases which had ever come before the house. The Attorney General had admitted that the practice of giving two guineas to the Jurors when they found for the crown, once existed, and had only lately been left off; but he was sorry that he had not adverted to the other practices which the hon. gent, opposite had stated. He was surprised that he had passed over the great question as to the right of the executive to transport its subjects to any part of its dominions at its own discretion. He should have expected that he would not have passed over this. He thought, indeed, that this point had been settled at the Revolution; and he regretted that he had heard no opinion on the subject from him. He had also passed over another most important point; the allegation that Special Juries were struck at the discretion of the Crown Office. The 189ex officioSir Francis Burdett
 in explanation said, that Mr. White had not been sent to Dorchester, merely by the discretionary power of the executive government; but that this formed part of the sentence of the court. He stated, that the reason for his not averting to the other abuses mentioned by the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread), was, that these were to come forward at some future period. He had only adverted at present to the practices which had been stated upon grounds not arising out of the Petition.The Attorney General
190 remarked, that all arguments of the hon. baronet were founded on the misconception that the prisoner White had been sent to Dorchester by the executive government; whereas, the fact was, as had been stated by his learned friend, that this formed part of the sentence of the court. When the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread) made a statement, injustice, as he said, to the relatives and friends of Mr. Wakefield, he ought to have recollected that justice was also due to the magistrate.—The right hon. gent, observed, that before the complaints in the Petition were token up by the house, it would be proper, if not necessary, to shew that the individual had resorted to the ordinary means of procuring redress. If the house encouraged this practice of petitioning, without its being shewn that other means of redress had been attempted in vain, it might be made a vehicle of slander. The words of a Judge, giving his opinion in the manner prescribed by an act of parliament, had been complained of, because that opinion was, that the libel was the grossest that had ever been published. And supposing it was so—for so it ought to be taken at present—the house ought not readily to give way to these false accusations. He would, however, not oppose the laying the Petition on the
190The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, said, that he had not spoken under a misconception. He knew that the sending the individual to Dorchester constituted part of the sentence of the court; but the government having the power of appointing accuser, judge, and jury, any accused person was, in effect, placed at its discretion. These sentences were not, indeed, unprecedented, but they were new since the Revolution.Sir Francis Burdett
195194193192 requested the attention of the house to the few observations he had to submit to their consideration, previous to his bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice. The Bill which it was his intention to move for leave to bring in, was, word for word, the same as that which had already twice passed that house, but which had as often been rejected by the house of lords, on the ground of its being desirable that the business should be further considered. This question had already received the most ample investigation and discussion. The measure, his lordship observed, which he recommended Was no object originating in his own legislative views, it grew out of two Reports of that house, and was the first practical act recommended for adoption by two successive committees appointed by that house. In that house it had been on former occasions received without a dissentient voice; even the king's ministers did not feel it either justifiable or politic to interfere with it in its passage through that house. But an opposition formidable in its means and persevering in its hostility appeared in another branch of the legislature, and was for a time successful, not only against the unanimous feeling of that house, but also against the general and expressive voice of the country. The principle of the measure, after some modifications, had however at length passed that house, meeting in its progress considerable opposition in a quarter were one should suppose every duty to the country and every regard to personal dignity forbade intrusion. The opposition that was there exerted, was a question of no easy solution, but the protest which was subsequently affixed upon the Journals of that house, held no inconsiderable rank amongst the follies of princes either of past or present times. For that extraordinary record of human ingenuity he could not assign any rational motive, and for that best of all reasons that no rational cause was assignable. Every man who venerated the throne and loved the constitution, saw with pain the names affixed to that protest (alluding to the signatures of the Dukes of York, Cumberland and Cambridge to the protest against the present Reversion Act). That
195194193192Lord Porchester
196 was surprized at the way in which the noble lord had chosen to magnify the present subject, as if the endeavour to carry it, were similar to the struggles of our ancestors for Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights; and as if it comprised within itself every thing vital to the constitution. For his part, he had never disguised his opinion of the bill. He could never see in it that importance which was attached to it by many; he did not perceive that it contained any serious attack on the prerogatives of the crown: and much less did he conceive that it comprehended any valuable acquisition to the privileges of the people, or would lead to any considerable alleviation of the public burdens. As an economical measure it was nothing, or rather it would prove probably injurious; for there were instances in which at present services were rewarded with reversions, which services, if the proposed bill were to become a law, must receive some immediate reward of perhaps greater value.—Having stated what had always been his opinion on the present measure, he should now mention what were his grounds for opposing the introduction of the bill at present. He objected to it principally, because the bill was not at present necessary. They had at this moment an act which would not expire till six weeks after the commencement of the next session of parliament. They were thus guarded against the granting of further reversions
196The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he felt himself always at liberty to exercise his discretion as to the period of the debate in which he thought proper to rise. The vote he should now give was in exact conformity with that he had given before. With respect to the question of Reversions, he did not think it of such importance as the noble lord seemed to imagine; there was no need of passion on the occasion, it might be said against Reversions, that they put it out of his majesty's power to reward services, because they anticipated giants; but it might be urged on the other side, that they afforded a stimulant to the public man by the consideration that the reward of his labours would descend to his children; either side might be embraced without subjecting the advocate to the imputation of any unfair principle. Upon the whole, he thought that the arguments in favour of Reversions were better than those against them. The public feeling, he was aware, lay on the other side, and in balanced and doubtful cases, that consideration ought to decide them. If there was a difference between the two houses of parliament, that was not the moment to renew the difference; he would follow up his vote of the former night, by continuing to act on the suspension up to the time agreed to. With respect to the advice which the Lord Chancellor had been said to have stated, that he should feel no hesitation to give to his majesty, he could only say, that the whole story was new to him; he had never heard it before, and did not believe it. He hoped he had exculpated himself from the charge of inconsistency, or any inclination to avoid the discussion of the question.Mr. Secretary Canning
203 ridiculed the idea of the measure now proposed having the effect of interfering with or obstructing the act of last session. It was the strongest mode of obstructing an act, to give it perpetual operation. He could by no means agree with those who thought the present measure one from which little advantage would be derived. It would both diminish the public expence, and also diminish the patronage of the minister of the day, by preventing him from pressing the future into his service, and confining him to what he had now, instead of extending his power over what might not be disposable for 40 or 50 years. But, if he could conceive the measure of little importance in itself, it had become of the highest importance in consequence of the circum-
203Mr. Ponsonby
 rose to reply. He observed that the whole weight of the right hon. gent.'s argument rested upon the circumstance, that some public inconvenience might arise from the adoption of the measure. For his own part, he could not perceive any inconvenience that could be the result of the adoption of the measure, though he was firmly persuaded that great practical injury must result from procrastination respecting it. Why should the members of that house throw themselves upon the mercy of his majesty's ministers, or why should they defer the consideration of the measure in compliance with their views? The right hon. Secretary (Mr. Canning) had stated how nicely balanced his own opinion was on the subject, and that he wished to leave it to public opinion to decide; but it was somewhat extraordinary that the vote of that right hon. gent, was to be in opposition to the opinion of the public. But the right hon. gent, contended, that the course he pursued was founded upon the impression, that the contrary would be productive of danger to the safety of the public. His majesty's ministers, however, did not appear to him to meet the question fairly: they opposed it on the ground of inconvenience, but they passed by the interest which the public had in passing the measure. Upon the integrity of the house of commons was placed the surest hope and firmest reliance of the country. It had been said that this measure was not comparable to Magna Charta; but the principle of the bill was more compatible with the spirit of that instrument than the spirit of those who opposed it was compatible with that of those who supported Magna Charta. On the whole, therefore, he should persevere in his motion, and leave to the house to determine whether or not leave should be given to bring in the Bill.Lord Porchester
 explained as to the allusions which had been made to his noble relation's offices; the balance did not remain in his hands, it was lodged in the Bank.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
199198 observed, that after the great length at which the noble mover had gone into this question, it was not his intention to investigate its merits very largely. He could not help, however, remarking shortly upon the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as they appeared to him to be very extraordinary. The right hon. gent, had began by remarking, that he did not think this bill
199198Lord H. Petty
 was sorry to hurt the feelings of the relatives of Mr. Gilbert Wakefield, but injustice to the magistrates of Dorset he must say, that he had abused the indulgence which he had met with in the manner stated. He then read a letter from one of the magistrates confirming this statement, and also stating that Mr. White had been asked before the commencement of the session, whether he had any reason to complain? to which he had replied, "None whatever."Mr. Ashley Cooper
l.l.l.200 remarked strongly upon the silence of ministers, whose speeches were withheld, but whose opinions might, be guessed at. One right hon. gent, alone delivered his sentiments on the measure, who pretended not to be unfriendly to it, but to object to it only on the point of time, while others opposed it in silence. He was of opinion, not only that the measure was in time, but that it was in strict parliamentary time. He was of course reduced to the necessity of stating his own opinions generally on the bill; answer objections he could not, for none had been made. One point, indeed, and one only had been made, and that was, as be had just stated, with respect to time; the six weeks of next session would, it was said, be sufficient for the discussion of the bill, and were purposely allowed for it. The six weeks were allowed for no such purpose; but they were allowed to guard the house against a strained exertion of the prerogative in proroguing parliament during the session, before the house had come to a decision on the subject.—It was said that we need not be in such a violent hurry now to render this bill perpetual, because, while the Suspension Act continued, no place in reversion could be granted. What! was he to be told this, when he knew that on this very Suspension Act passing, a minister had been bold enough to say, that he would not hesitate to advise his majesty to grant a place in reversion immediately, and that for no other reason than because such a bill had passed! (Hear! hear!) The lords had before objected to the bill. Did the Chancellor of the Exchequer know that the lords had changed their minds on the subject? If they had not, send the bill, then, to them in time, and let them deliberate fully upon it. Let the people see that Parliament was interested, as far as it could, to relieve their burthens. He was no advocate for giving way to popular clamour, but he would never advise any set of men to oppose right by way of showing that they would not succumb to public opinion. Would it not be a pretty thing to say to the people (by way of evincing spirit), "we have agreed on a measure for years; but now since we see you wish to have it carried, we will disagree to it, and there's
l.l.l.200Mr. Tierney
197 said he had not entertained any intention of coming forward with this motion during the present session, because, from the general view which he took of the question, and the most mature consideration of all the circumstances, he thought it most wise to defer any further consideration of the subject, till the next session. However, though he had brought the existing bill into the house when it first originated, yet, aware as he was that when once brought in, it became public property, he could not help saying he wished the noble lord who had taken it up every success. If the noble lord entertained a different opinion of it, and of the policy of bringing
197Mr. Bankes
 affirmed, that the most respectable freeholders were always summoned for Juries.Sir James Graham
185 said that he would take his full share in endeavouring to remedy any improper practices, whether confinement in distant gaols or any others, which should be proved to exist. But at present he only rose to do justice to himself and the magistrates of Dorchester, by giving a fair and candid statement of the circumstance which he had formerly mentioned relative to Mr. Gilbert Wakefield. He had been informed before, and had stated in the house, on the authority of most respectable men, that Mr. Gilbert Wakefield had made an improper use of the indulgence allowed, He had since inquired more particularly into the subject, and though he was as unwilling as any man to cast any imputation on the memory of that eminent scholar, or to hurt the feelings of his surviving relatives and friends, yet he must say that he had found that Mr. Wakefield made use of the indulgence shewn him to excite a spi-
185Mr. Calcraft
l.,182181180179178177176ex officio, presented a Petition from Mr. Henry White, Proprietor of a Sunday Newspaper, called "The Independent Whig," a Prisoner in Dorchester gaol, for a libel. The Petition, he observed, complained of grievances sustained in the course of the trial and afterwards in the gaol. The Petition was brought up and read by the clerk as follows:l.,182181180179178177176ex officio,Mr. Whitbread
184183 said, that he meant to do nothing more at present, than to move that the Petition do lie on the table. He could not of course pledge himself for the accuracy of the allegations, either as to the circumstances at the trial, or as to those which had taken place during the
184183Mr. Whitbread
191 said he had another Petition from John Harriot Hart, a person confined in Gloucester gaol for the same offence, and who was tried at the same time as Mr. White, as the Printer and Publisher of the Independent Whig. There were two circumstances mentioned in this Petition, which appeared to him to be very severe, and somewhat extraordinary. He complained, that he was prevented from using any fermented liquors. This he thought very hard, for, in many instances, such liquors were deemed absolutely necessary for the preservation of a man's health, and therefore the indiscriminate and total denial of them seemed very harsh. Another complaint was, that all letters and papers sent to him were subject to inspection. This was very different treatment, and much more severe than that of Mr. White, and he was surprised it was permitted, as justice seemed to say decidedly, that for the same offence there should be the same measure of punishment. He would not say whether he should bring forward any motion on the subject till the question in the house of lords was determined; but he hoped that in the mean time those who had it in their power would take care that justice should be fairly dispensed. In allusion to what had fallen from an hon. friend of his on the other side of the house, that he was surprised he would present a petition from persons who were of that description, viz. libellers, his answer to this was, he thought that a strong reason why he should bring it up; for obnoxious persons were generally those seized on by the executive government, and were the means by which such proceedings creep
191Mr. Whitbread
 said that the Attorney-General had misrepresented him. He had stated that the practice of giving two guineas to Jurors who gave a verdict for the crown, either existed at present or had only been lately discontinued. This was his information, and it appeared to be correct, for the practice had existed; and the learned gent, had admitted that it was a gross abuse. He did not say that Jurors who gave verdicts against the crown had been struck off the list; he had only said that it so happened that they were never summoned again; and the learned gent, upon inquiry might find that statement to be correct.Mr. Whitbread
201 commented on the sur-
201Mr. Whitbread
186 knew nothing of this matter except from the allegations of the Petitioner himself. He agreed with his hon. friend, that if there was an unnecessary severity in the case, and if the practices to which he adverted did actually prevail, that these were proper subjects for the consideration of the house. But the allegations in the Petition, as far as he could follow them, (having however come into the house only when it was in the act of reading), amounted to no more than this, that a gaol was a gaol, and that punishment was punishment. He really always understood that confinement was punishment, and it appeared that this confinement was not unduly severe with regard to him. Mr. White said that walking in a circular space aggravated his disorder; but he saw no reason why Mr. White should not square the circle if he pleased. But how came it that all Mr. White's complaints about this confinement related solely to himself. Others were in as bad a situation as be was, and if there was any improper severity, the remedy ought to
186Mr. Windham
224223222221220219 rose and spoke as follows.—I certainly cannot help expressing my utmost regret that any action of mine should become the subject of parliamentary discussion. I am sure no person can feel more for the privileges and independence of this house, than I do; and certainly my culpability, if really guilty, must be greatly increased, from the situation I hold in his majesty's councils. If I have committed any error in the discharge of my public duty, I can assure the house, that it was not intentional on my part, and is rather to be attributed to accident than design. I thank the noble lord for the manner in which he has brought this question forward, and for the full and candid statement which he has made of his view of it, before he came to propose his final Resolutions. There is no extent to which the charge can be carried, which I do not wish to hear and to meet, and on this account I am gratified at the full explanation which has been given by the noble lord. I am the last man who will complain of his going too far in urging any charge against myself. I allow him to draw every inference he can from my own evidence, but there are some things which I have to say, that will be directly contrary to what has been stated by some of the witnesses. If gentlemen will judge my conduct, when separated from my political principles, I trust that no blame will attach to it. Here it may be necessary for me to state, and I solemnly declare, that, as a minister of the crown, I never applied my patronage to acquire any unjust influence in this house; and I am sure no person can contradict me. The patronage I had, and the manner in which I disposed of it, is before you, and it will be seen that I neither bestowed it upon the members, nor upon the electors, nor for any political purpose whatsoever. I also beg leave to state that it never once occurred to me as an original idea, to employ my patronage to obtain lord Clancarty's return. When I saw Mr. Reding, he told
224223222221220219Lord Castlereagh
malus animus;226225—Sir; when a man who has served the public in a high office for many years, is called upon to defend himself from charges such as those contained in the noble lord's Resolutions, it is a matter of great moment, and requiring much deliberation. In the course of the speech which the noble lord made, he
malus animus;226225Lord Binning.
241240239238 said, that however he might expose himself to censure, he thought it would be not only a breach of public, but of private duty, did
241240239238The Chancellor of the Exchequer
242 was disposed strongly, upon a case of this delicacy and importance, to exercise all those feelings of generosity which it was calculated to excite; and if he should fall into error in the course he was about to pursue, it would be error on the side of lenity rather than severity. It had been stated by the right hon. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer,) that the fact urged against the noble viscount was merely a parliamentary offence; whilst the hon. gent. under the gallery, (Mr. Manners Sutton,) had declared that the only way in which the house could do its duty to the public would be by passing an adequate judgment upon that fact; and yet both gentlemen proposed that no judgment should be come to upon the subject, but that the house should pass to the other orders of the day. He was sincerely disposed to take the mildest course that the nature of the case would admit of. The right hon. gent. had said that the Resolutions of the noble lord would go to inflict as heavy a punishment as could be imposed, if the offence had been committed with the most criminal intention. But might not the noble lord have proposed to follow up his Resolutions with a motion for the expulsion of the noble lord, or for an address to his majesty for his removal from his presence and councils for ever? The question was then, whether with the fact so fully admitted, that house could, consistently with its duty, pass the matter wholly by? In his opinion that was impossible. In proposing to dispose of the Writership in the manner stated in the evidence, the noble lord had not been simply guilty of an abuse of his patronage as a servant of the crown; he had been guilty of a violation of the East India act to a peculiar degree, by doing that, which it was the object of that act to prevent, in applying India patronage for purposes of parliamentary influence. His conduct was not only an offence, but a perversion of the duties of an office created to prevent such perversion. It had been said, that the first Resolution was false in sense, and the second false in sense and in fact; but if the whole of that were to be admitted, what argument would it afford for passing to the orders
242Mr. Ponsonby
249248247246245 at that hour of the night, and after the very able speech of the noble lord who had opened the debate, as well as the able speeches of many gentlemen below him upon the floor, did not mean to trespass at any length upon the attention of the house. At the same time, the question was in itself of such importance, and so much had been said in extenuation of the case, founded upon the admission of the noble lord, and some observations which had fallen from the hon. gent. who had just sat down were such, that he was induced to trespass a short time upon the indulgence of the house, even at that late hour. If it had not been for the general gravity of that hon. gent., and the serious manner in which he had produced these observations to the house, he should have supposed that there had been something ludicrous in his statement, from the effect it appeared to have produced upon the faces of the right hon. gentlemen opposite.—With respect to the question before the house, he could not see any objection to the original Resolutions proposed by the noble lord. As to the objections which had been taken to the second Resolution, that it was not founded in fact, he must observe, that though it was not exactly made out by the evidence, yet it would be very easy to amend it; because the fact was, that the negociation had actually failed, in consequence of the interior agents not having been able to accomplish what they had undertaken. Did the noble lord perceive the impropriety of his conduct, and stop short in his pro-
249248247246245Sir Francis Burdett,
 agreed with what had fallen from an hon. gent. on the other side of the house, that the character of the house was more to be attended to than the character of any individual whatsoever. He perceived, however, that every gent. who had spoken, entertained a due sense of the manner in which his noble friend had conducted his defence, and did not wish to press any severe sentence upon him. They might then take into their consideration, that the intention of the noble lord was never carried into execution, and that it certainly would have been retracted, if the noble lord had afterwards come to learn the character of the person, and the circumstances of the offer. No man could say the noble lord had conducted himself with contumacious contempt. He had expressed as much humility as he could, consistently with his own honour and the dignity of the house. Every liberal person would acknowledge, that there was a manner of recanting an error which became a man, and the noble lord had a claim on that ground to the good opinion of the house. He, therefore, in voting for the orders of the day, by no means thought the house thereby would pronounce that the case submitted to them was not of very serious importance, but that the voting for the other orders of the day was, according to parliamentary usage, a way of shewing that the house had taken the case into ifs consideration, and that having weighed all the circumstances, they did not think it necessary to come to any criminating Resolutions. In order, however, to express this opinion more clearly and unmistakeably, he would rather wish that instead of the orders of the day, a Resolution should be substituted, declaring that the house saw no reason for a criminating resolution.—Mr. Secretary Canning concluded, by stating, that when the present question was disposed of, he should submit to the house the following Resolution: "That it is the duty of this house to maintain a jealous guard over the purity and independence of parliament; but that this house duly weighing the Evidence before it, and all the circumstances of the case, and considering that the intention referred to in that Evidence was not carried into effect, this house does not think it necessary to come to a criminatory Resolution upon the same."Mr. Secretary Canning
 in his reply, denied that he meant to impute to lord Castlereagh any knowledge of pecuniary advantage to be gained by the business.Lord A. Hamilton,
218217216215214213212211210209208207206205*The Report of the Committee will be found in the Appendix to the present volume.204 addressed
218217216215214213212211210209208207206205*The Report of the Committee will be found in the Appendix to the present volume.204Lord Archibald Hamilton
 said, he came to join in the discussion biassed in favour of the question; but he did not see that the noble lord, whose conduct became the subject of investigation, deserved all the displace and dishonour which had been attached to him. He preferred a moderate course of proceeding towards the noble lord. He agreed with the mild maxim of Hume, that the most moderate measures were the most wise.Mr. Johnstone
 said it was not his intention to offer himself to the house; but the Resolution of the right hon. Secretary had put the noble lord's case on a new footing. After debating the question several hours, the right hon. Secretary had brought forward the same Resolution proposed by an hon. member (Mr. Bankes.) The hon. gent. had perhaps over-heard some conversation, and finding the orders of the day would not do, because that motion could not be carried, he had brought forward his Resolution. He wished rather to be lenient than severe towards lord Castlereagh; but when so much had been said about the great candour of his defence, he must observe that in his defence he had only repeated what he had said before the Committee; and it must be recollected that the fact had been fully proved against lord Castlereagh in the Committee by the evidence of lord Clancarty and others, before lord Castlereagh had himself been examined. He did not see that it was any mitigation to say that lord Castlereagh had been so particular about the fitness of the person recommended, as those writerships were always given to boys, and the son of a chimney-sweeper might be just as fit as the son of a nobleman, if he had interest to get a recommendation. As the fact was not only clearly proved, but confessed, he could not see how the house could avoid expressing its displeasure. When the house ordered Mr. Davison to be prosecuted for a lesser offence, with respect to corrupt influence at elections, he could not see how, with any shadow of impartial justice, they could come to such a resolution as was proposed by the right hon. secretary.Mr. Tierney
256 then proposed, that there should be added to Mr. Canning's Amendment words to this effect—"That the house was confirmed in its opinion, that it
256Mr. C. Wynn
229228227 Certainly, sir, after the speech which we have heard from the noble lord, I for one did not expect that he would have concluded it with such a motion; I for one did not expect that after he said the proposition of my noble friend was rather severe, he would attempt to substitute for it a proposal that it should be dismissed altogether; that when a Resolution was proposed by my noble friend grounded upon facts, the noble lord should propose to us to pass it by without notice
229228227Mr. C. W. Wynn.
: said, that the hon. gent. seemed to have misunderstood him: he recommended no middle course. He had only said, that he expected the noble lord opposite would have recommended such a course; but for his part he did not mean to disapprove in any degree of that which his noble friend had adopted.Mr. C. Wynn
244243 as Chairman of the Committee, felt it necessary for him to say a few words upon the question, in consequence of some allusions which had been made to the conduct of the Committee. The noble lord who brought forward this subject, had, towards the close of his speech, made an observation expressive of surprise that the Committee had not mentioned this case in their Report, nor accompanied the Evidence upon it and other Cases with any remarks; and appeared to think that the question ought to have been taken up by the Chairman, or some other member of the Committee, rather than be left to the house at large to take up. But in his wish to promote his own object, the noble lord forgot what the Committee had been appointed to do, and the instructions under which that Committee acted. This case was not within the purview of the Committee, which was confined to the Abuses of East India patronage as connected with the conduct of the Directors: and to effect that object, he as chairman of the Committee was obliged to come to the house for fresh and more extensive powers. The same cause prevented the Committee from reporting upon other transactions which had been brought before them, though the evidence had been printed, and given rise to much surprise on the part of many persons whose names were inserted in the evidence. The Committee, when it found that no corrup-
244243Mr. Bankes,
237236 said, that it seemed to be generally admitted that an offence had been committed: the offence, too, was of that sort, the principle of which went to affect that house in its privilege, and the country in its constitution; but then in this, as in every other offence, there were degrees, and the punishment should be
237236Mr. Grattan
 said, the crime imputed to the noble lord was not dissimilar to a political offence committed by the late Mr. Pitt, for which parliament granted him an indemnity. He could not vote for the Resolutions, as they imposed a censure disproportioned to the crime. Still he was of opinion that the transaction was of such a nature as not to be passed over with total impunity.Mr. H. Lascelles
231230 claimed the attention of the house for a short time. He wished that, in considering the whole of the case now under discussion, they would, in the very first instance, reflect on the evidence of Mr. Reding, upon whose testimony the material part of it rested; which if they did in a dispassionate way, they would find that it was so irreconcilable to reason, truth, and common sense, that they could place no faith, no credence in it. When he was first interrogated before the Com-
231230Mr. Croker
254253confitentem reum.252 moved that the Resolution passed by the house in 1779 be read. That Resolution declared it to be a high crime and misdemeanor in his majesty's ministers or servants under the crown, to interfere in the election of members of parliament. Such interference was evidently an infringement of the liberty of the subject, and dangerous to the free constitution of this country. He called on any man in the house to lay his hand on his heart, and declare whether the offence with which the noble lord was charged did not come under that Resolution. If it did, was it possible to pass to the order of the day, after the confession which they heard from the noble lord, after his pathetic appeal to their feelings, after he threw himself, in fact, upon their mercy? He certainly had not much prejudice in favour of the political opinions of that noble lord; but there was something in his manner of leaving the house that almost wholly disarmed him. He had attended closely to the speech of his noble friend who had made the motion, and listened to it throughout with feelings of approbation; but he must say, that the manner in which his noble friend's propositions had been treated was calculated to produce a very unfavourable impression on the public mind. The offence was one of a very serious nature, and the house had not to enquire whether it had been committed. The fact of the negociation was admitted by the noble viscount; but thought he had unequivocally confessed his fault, still it was the duty of the house to express their opinion upon his conduct.254253confitentem reum.252Mr. Whitbread
235234l.233232 could not help admiring the ingenuity with which the hon. gent. (Mr. Croker) contrived to turn the attention of the house from the main question to the marquis of Sligo, whose case had nothing to do with the subject under discussion. The hon. gent., he thought, would find some difficulty in reconciling some inconsistencies that appeared in his speech. He felt the greatest indignation at the imputation that had been cast upon the deceased marquis of Sligo, in associating him with such transactions, but he seemed to lose all his warmth, when he contemplated the charge made against the living. The hon. gent. ought to have taken a little more pains to defend the living, seeing what he had done for the dead. There existed in this case a degree of guilt, which was not to be passed over in the slight way proposed by the noble lord opposite (lord Binning,) nor in a slight way at all; and nothing short of adopting the Resolutions of his noble friend would satisfy the duty of the house. He held an opinion, directly contrary to that stated by
235234l.233232Mr. W. Smith
251250 felt it necessary to explain his reasons for the vote he should give, or rather for the vote he should not give. Neither the original Resolutions, nor the motion made by a noble lord on the other side, were such as to induce him to give his support to either. He could
251250Mr. Windham
 spoke for some time, but there was such a general cry of question! question! that we could not collect his sentiments.Sir C. Price
 admitted, that where it appeared that electors had been corrupted, punishment ought to follow. But here no voter had been corrupted, and the circumstance occurred four years ago. He put it to the house, therefore, whether they could conscientiously come to any resolution of seventy against the noble viscount, even upon the evidence before them? There was no practical injury that had arisen from the negociation—no acting upon it—no result—it died in embrio. No seat was obtained or lost through it; no corruption proceeded, no body was benefitted by it, nor was the state or the individual injured by it.—He hoped that political hostility would not prevail so far as to aggravate this case, and therefore asked the gentlemen on the other side whether, with a fair view to the independence of parliament, it was necessary to enter on the Journals such Resolutions as these? He agreed that the dignity and independence of the house ought to be its primary object, but that independence and dignity would be sufficiently consulted by the notice which had been taken of this transaction, and the most moderate way of proceeding would be to adopt the proposition of his noble friend, and go to the order of the day.Mr. Manners Sutton
 observed, that he had felt great indignation at a particular part of the noble lord (Castlereagh's) speech, and indeed at the whole of it; but as to the manner of expressing that indignation, he was ready to apologize to the noble lord and the house.Lord Milton
 moved for leave to bring in a bill for regulating the Trade with Martinique.Mr. Rose
 expressed his surprize, that when a deviation so great from the general colonial system was proposed, none of his majesty's ministers had thought proper to communicate to the house any reason for such deviation; he considered the price of sugars would be equally affected, whether those from Martinique were admitted only for exportation or for home consumption also: the not allowing the inhabitants of that island the privileges of other British colonies, might create, disaffection, and was contrary to the spirit of the proclamation of our commanders.Mr. Marryatt
 defended the measure, and contended, that the restrictions proposed on the Martinique trade would be beneficial to our own colonies, and was not aware that any proclamation had been issued, of which this regulation would be an infringement. He professed his readiness to discuss the measure on a future day, and only wished at present for leave to bring in the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
260 coincided in opinion with Mr. Marryatt and Mr. Jacob in respect to placing the sugars of Martinique on the same footing as those from our own islands, and condemned the abuse which existed in respect to licences. He regretted that at a time when it was thought necessary
260Mr. Baring
, in the present stage of the business, was willing to wave the discussion of Martinique sugars, but denied any assurance being given to the inhabitants that the island should in all respects be in the same situation as other British colonies. He asserted that no licences for the importation of French brandies had been granted for the last six or eight months, except in circumstances of peculiar hardship, when the brandies had been paid for by British subjects; and that even under those circumstances, none had been either granted or renewed lately, nor would they in future.Mr. Rose
 contended, that the sale of licences had been carried to a great extent, and was an evil that much required correction: he did not altogether disapprove of making a distinction between Martinique and our other colonies, but it was of importance to ascertain whether any promises to the contrary had been held out by our commanders.Mr. Horner
 remarked, that the proprietors of West India Estates had always shewn a great degree of tenacity to maintain a monopoly of the supply of the British Islands, and that it did not appear their produce would be much affected, whatever regulations might be adopted with respect to Martinique; but as they entertained a prejudice on the one hand, and the inhabitants of Martinique on the other, it was the business of the house to legislate impartially between them. He felt it impossible not to lament the situation of our own colonies, the property of which was depreciated in a most ruinous degree. It would be no small alleviation to them if the importation of French brandies were prohibited: this would increase the consumption of rum, its natural substitute, and the production of our own colonies. Brandy was by no means a necessary of life, and by allowing its consumption we were benefiting the enemy. He gave government credit for their determination to prohibit its importation, but their views were in a great measure frustrated by the licences now outstanding circulated in different parts of Europe, and of which a shameful traffic was made.Mr. Jacob
262 said, that as, contrary to his expectation, his motion was opposed, he would beg the attention of the house while he briefly stated his reasons for making it, and why he thought the objections of no weight against it. As to the first, it would be easy for the Order of that house to be directed to the adjutant-general, and if he had not the papers, then to the adjutant-general of the army in Spain. With respect to the second objection, of the tone of a commanding officer being different to what it would be if addressed to the house, it made, he thought, rather in favour of the motion; there could not, certainly, be any object which the house ought more to wish the knowledge of, than the state of the discipline of the army. As to the gallant officer who was the object of the motion, he was sure that brave general never wrote or expressed a sentiment relative to the army under his command, which he would not have published and wished to be known to the whole world. It was very well known, that a considerable alarm had gone abroad respecting the disorder and want of discipline in the army under the command of sir John Moore, which had shewn itself particularly in the retreat from Sahagun to Corunna, and that this want of discipline was not owing to general Moore. Now, if those Orders were made public, they would shew plainly and clearly that the fault was not with him. If the noble lord meant these orders should not be known to the public, and if it were true, as the noble lord had admitted, that every thing had been done by sir John Moore in the retreat from Sahagun to Cornnna, that could have been done by the ablest general in any service, then the argument amounted to this, viz. that you must not hurt the feelings of the army, but you may sacrifice the honour and character of the officer who commanded. If any thing had been done by the gallant officer alluded to, which was at all faulty, it was entirely owing to ministers; and as he had, unfortunately for the country, fallen a sacrifice to the situation in which he had been placed by them, or by their adherents, it was extremely hard to sacrifice his character, as well as his life, to screen themselves. The whole of these Orders had been published in the newspapers, and if refused, that house would be the only place in which they would not be known. He wished, however, to place the character of the gallant and lamented
262Mr. Abercrombie
 thought, as the propriety of sir John Moore's conduct appeared such that the public were generally satisfied, the production of the papers moved for seemed unnecessary.Mr. Taylor
 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the general Orders issued by general sir John Moore at Salamanca, &c. in Spain. His sole object in moving for these papers was, that the character of that gallant and highly lamented officer might appear in its true colours. He did not apprehend there could be any objection to this motion, and should therefore mention the papers, viz. Copies of the general Orders issued on the 25th of October, 11th of November, and 23d, 27th, and 30th of December, 1808.Mr. Abercrombie
 said, he should be sorry to refuse any papers which might be thought necessary to vindicate the character of the gallant officer alluded to, but he must resist the motion; first, because the executive government could not comply with it. No such papers were in his office, nor did he know where they were, except they might be in possession of the adjutant-general in Spain. In the next place, he thought it a serious question of prudence whether such papers ought to be called for, as the orders of generals to the army under their command were conveyed in a tone which might be necessary to keep up discipline, and might not perhaps be quite consonant to the feelings of the house, and should not therefore be made public.Lord Castlereagh
 briefly replied, and gave it as his opinion, that such an inquiry at the present moment would be invidious and unnecessary.Lord Castlereagh
 had already communicated to the hon. gent, that it was impossible to comply with his motion, because government had no such papers as he had moved for to produce. He left the house to judge of the candour of the hon. gent. under these circumstances, who seemed to have taken this occasion to throw out insinuations against Mr. Frere before the time for discussing the subject altogether had arrived. He had heard this with feelings which he would not trust himself to express. When the proper moment came he would endeavour to discharge his public duties and those of private friendship. He was surprised the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Tierney) had not called the hon. gent. to order when he was reading the extract from the letter of the Junta; he who had on a former occasion made so much noise about garbled extracts. That letter, however, was not in the possession of government; and as to the other part of the motion, all the communications of Mr. Frere on the subject were on the table.Mr. Secretary Canning
 stated that Mr. Frere had accompanied the Junta when they left Madrid, and could have known nothing of Charmilly, or the letter of Morla, had it not been that the Junta stopped at Talavera de la Reyna, on their way to Seville. Here Charmilly found him, when on his way to sir John Moore, with a direct communication, never intended to be forwarded through Mr. Frere.Mr. Canning
 did not know of any.Mr. Canning
 said, there were no documents at his office on the subject, cither from Mr. Frere or sir John Moore. He wished to correct a mistake, which, he understood, to have prevailed. It had been said, that Charmilly went to Spain recommended by him. There was no foundation for the report. Charmilly had applied to him to be sent, but he had told him that he did not know of any service in which he would be wanted, and he really never knew that the gentleman was in Spain till the mention of this transaction.Lord Castlereagh
 called the hon. general to order, on the ground that this had nothing to do with the question.Mr. Yorke
 said, that he certainly was not disposed to retire on any suggestion of the hon. gent. As to Charmilly's being the messenger alluded to, he did not officially know any thing about the matter.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the majority of the house had voted that there was no reason why his noble friend should retire, and that the judgment of the house was to be regulated by its majority, and not by the minority.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, said, it was very true that an additional number of papers were continually appearing; but these papers were not diurnal prints, which incurred necessarily a very heavy expense in their establishments, but weekly and two days a week papers, which could glean their intelligence from the daily papers, without having to pay the sources from whence it was derived; of course, the circumstance of their appearance ought not to militate against the daily paper, which gave to them much of its advantages, while it could not extend any of its expences. The paper which had extended its columns to five was a daily paper, it was true; but then, in order to support itself, it was compelled to publish at an early hour, which early publication necessarily prevented it from participation in the sources of information from which other papers derive much of their interest; for instance, it was not able fully to give intelligence of what was passing in that house. He supported the present measure from an absolute conviction of its justice and its policy; for, surely, it would not be equitable to keep newspaper proprietors to the strict limitation or letter of an agreement, when the foundation on which such agreement stood had sunk. Why should they be restricted in the price of their paper, when the expence attending it had been extended? Papers which had a variety of advertisements might profit by it, but that was the result of much labour and a long establishment, and was at all events no reason why those which had fewer should suffer. A multiplicity of papers were now printed in this town, but such speculations were extremely hazardous, and were often kept alive at absolute ruin from too long protracted hope and a natural disinclination to dissolve a regulated establishment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the order of the day for the house resolving itself into a Committee on this bill. On the motion for the Speaker's leaving the Chair,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
270 agreed with the hon. and learned gent., that the subject to which he had alluded was deserving of consideration, and was of opinion that the house should come to some resolution upon the question in the present session. It would not be right to proceed further in the present instance without communication with the courts, with a view to guard, in any future measures, existing rights and vested property. In the last session, he had given notice of his intention in the present to bring forward a proposition for the increase of the salaries of the puisne judge, and he had to state, that that was still his intention. He thought it would also be right to increase the salaries of the Welsh judges, and of the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and of the chief baron of the Exchequer. He had not brought forward this measure at an earlier period of the session, because from the feelings which the mention of it seemed to have excited, he did not apprehend any opposition to it when he should propose to carry it into effect. But he trusted that the house would not think it necessary to make any provision respecting the sale of judicial offices, before this regulation should be adopted, but content itself with a resolution declaratory of its intention to take up that subject next session. In the exceptions, therefore, in the present bill, he proposed that these offices should be included, and should not propose to delay one year the consideration of the expediency of making some regulation respecting them, if that delay could effect or interfere with the administration of justice. But the offices were purely ministerial; and there were other judges in the different courts, besides those, who had the disposal of these places, and who could decide whether the persons appointed were adequate and fit for the offices. It was matter of surprise, that such places should have been excepted in the act of Edward vi.; but, as they had been so long excepted from the operation of that act, and allowed to be sold, it would not be just
270The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. stated, that there were many inaccuracies in the estimates of the Committee, and instanced one office, which they had sat down as one having 2,500l.l.Mr. Rose
l.271 thought, that not only the interests of the judges should be protected, but also the interests of other persons who held offices for life, and now exercising the right of selling offices in their departments; which right, he was of opinion, ought not to be suffered to continue. Nothing would more effectually contribute to make the public submit cheerfully to the burthens that were necessary, than that they should see that every saving of the public expenditure that was possible was resorted to.l.271Mr. C. Wynne
 said that it was difficult to know precisely, in some cases, the exact limits of order. The gallant general would use his own discretion.The Speaker
 did not know whether the right hon. gent. had attended to the extent of his hon. friend's motion. He wished he would state whether there was any communication from Mr. Frere relative to the two letters which he had sent to sir John Moore, and which had been received by him when Charmilly arrived?Lord H. Petty
 said, that if the noble lord would refer to the adjutant-general, he would easily find where the papers moved for were. As to the other objection to the tone of general orders, and their not according with the feelings of the house, he thought it very futile. They were always clear and concise, and so far not consonant with the long speeches in that house, but if those moved for were supposed necessary to clear up any doubts as to the conduct of the gallant and lamented officer alluded to, they ought certainly to be produced. He should therefore take the sense of the house on the question.General Tarleton
 proceeded. It appeared that this colonel Charmilly, had been the bearer of the dispatch to sir J. Moore; he therefore came before the house in that kind of military diplomatic character. Now when this colonel Charmilly was charged with his conduct to Mr. Devereux, what did he do? Why, simply denied ever having played with Mr. D. at all. The business was not proceeded in, owing to the interference of a very respectable man, the Compte de Vandreuil, who represented the total ruin in which it must involve colonel Charmilly. Such was the man whom Mr. Frere chose to authorise to interfere with sir John Moore!General Tarleton
266 observed, that what had been applied to Buonaparté might, with the alteration of a word, be applied to the noble lord. Buonaparté had been called the child and champion of Jacobinism: The noble lord was the child and
266General Tarleton
269 expatiated on the impro-
269Mr. Horner
 thought, that whatever obstacle from a feeling of delicacy might arise in some cases to the production of certain documents, none after what had already been produced could be supposed to exist in the present He thought they ought to be produced, to enlighten the public on a question so important.Mr. Horner
 was surprised at the motion which had been made. He had rather expected that the discount would be taken off entirely, and that the price should remain as it at present was. Various circumstances concurred to shew, that newspaper proprietors considered they had a good trade of it. For instance, a paper had been lately set up, which thought proper to extend itself from four (the usual number of columns,) to five columns. It was, in his opinion, impossible that the size of the articles should be increased, unless the value of it rose in proportion. He did not see, then, if this was the case, why this additional encouragement should be given.Mr. G. Johnstone
 observed, that the offence of his hon. friend had not deserved the wrath of the right honourable secretary. It was extremely proper to move for these papers, and to state the grounds of the motion, even though government had them not to produce; for it was very important to know that there were no such documents; and this fact did not operate much in favour of Mr. Frere. As to his calling his hon. friend to order, the right hon. gent. ought to be aware that there was a difference between reading an extract of a letter in moving for a paper, and the production of garbled extracts to form a foundation for a vote of the house. This was what they had complained of; for a Secretary of State might by this means give any complexion to the documents that would best suit his own purposes.Mr. Tierney
l.l. observed, that in his idea the operation of the bill ought to be extended to sinecures in the courts, and offices sold by persons holding such sinecures. He did not know all the cases, or how many sinecures of that description existed, but he was confident that many offices were sold that did not belong to the courts of justice to dispose of. The Third Report of the Finance Committee contained a recommendation to abolish sinecures in the courts of law. The Committee of Finance in 1797, had also recommended the abolition of such places, the profits of which were then estimated at 26,000l.l.Mr. Henry Thornton
 admitted, that some inaccuracies might have existed in the Report, which the committee was at present engaged in examining with a view to their correction, but still declared, that the gross amount of the profits of such places was such as he had stated.Mr. H. Thornton
 would reserve what he had to say on the subject of Mr. Frere's conduct till the proper time, but he supposed the right hon. secretary could not expect that any one would be prevented from saying of Mr. Frere whatever he would have said if he had not had the protection of the right hon. gent.'s friendship. There were two important facts, however, ascertained by this discussion; first, that Charmilly was the messenger to sir John Moore; and next, that the noble lord (Castlereagh) was still in office, in the face of a minority of 167. Many greater men had been driven out by a less formidable minority. But while the sturdy oak was rooted up by the storm, the pliant bulrush bent its head and recovered the shock.Mr. Whitbread
264263 rose to move for certain Papers relating to Mr. Frere's mission. After some preliminary observations, he stated, that Mr. Frere had written to sir J. Moore on the 23d of November, advising him to advance with his army. In answer to this letter of Mr. Frere's, sir J. Moore writes "I last night received a letter from the Supreme Junta. I have commanded sir David Baird to march back to Astorga, and have stopped the preparations for retreating." And this, it appeared, had been done at a period when there could, in fact, be no prospect of the British army being able to exert itself with effect. At this juncture, two persons (Thomas de Morla and the duke del Castell Franco) calling themselves the Supreme Junta, wrote a letter to sir J. Moore, dated the 1st of December, in which they stated, that they were much threatened by the enemy, that Castanos, with 25,000 men, and another army of 10,000 were falling back, and that they hoped he (sir John Moore) would fall back, and unite with their force. It had since appeared, that on the very day on which that letter was written, Morla had an interview with the French commanders; three days after from his conduct it should appear he considered all resistance as useless, and on the 5th (the day on which sir John Moore received the letter) the French were in quiet possession of Madrid. If it
264263Mr. Eden
268 said, that he for his part would be glad to take off the discount altogether, and leave the restriction in price to the fair efforts of competition. He was sure, however, that the immediate effect of that would be, the increase of the price to sevenpence. With respect to the objection of one paper having increased the number of its columns to five, the reason of that he supposed was, that its proprietors thought they should profit by the additional number of advertisements, in which the chief value of a newspaper consisted. This was the exact case, he believed, with this individual paper, which had been established by a body of auctioneers, who looked chiefly to advertisements. The great evidence of the burthen of the restriction was, that the aggregate number of daily papers was not increased since 1797. This was a fact which he had ascertained from the commissioners
268Mr. Huskisson
267 stated, that according to an agreement entered into, in the year 1797, it was stipulated that the proprietors of Newspapers should be allowed 12 per cent duty on stamps, provided they were restricted in the sale of their papers to the price of six-pence. They were to be allowed this discount provided the price did not rise above sixpence; but if it did, the discount was discontinued. This agreement, at the time it was made, was just, for the expences attending the publication were commensurate to the restriction. Since that period, however, owing to the rise in paper, the additional expence of labour, and a variety of other circumstances, the present profits were not adequate to the expenditure. It surely, then, could not be just to continue an agreement which had been made under very different circumstances from those now existing. Two modes were proposed, in order to meet the present circumstances. The first
267Mr. Huskisson
 said, he had no objection to the production of these papers; but as the subject was under the consideration of the Commissioners of Military Inquiry, and the War Office was occupied in forming arrangements pursuant to the suggestions of that Report, and also of the 7th and 8th Reports, he put it to the hon. gent. whether he should not defer his motion for the present, until he should know what arrangements would be adopted, especially as the preparation of these papers might interfere with the time of the clerks, now usefully occupied in the projected arrangements.The Secretary at War
275l. stated his surprise at hearing the noble lord say, that the grant of which he complained was unprecedented. If he had reverted to some of the grants voted during the time he was in office, he would find that there were some of an analogous nature. He by no means wished to contend the present question upon a recriminating principle, because he was aware that such an issue of public money could not be withheld without a great public inconvenience. What was the amount, either in expence or quality, of the present motion? It was no more than this, that on the 23d of May and the 3d of June, 1808, two sums of 5,000275l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 conceiving himself personally glanced at by the observations of the hon. gent., begged to assure him, that on his coming into office he had seen the necessity of making some arrangement, and had been prevented from undertaking it only by the consideration, that the subject was in the hands of the parliamentary Commissioners of Military Inquiry.The Secretary at War
278 submitted to the hon. gent., whether, when he was informed that the subject was in a train of arrangement, it would not be better for him to defer his motion till he should see what would be done with respect to it. Then it would be in his power to bring
278The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 explained, that such part of the grant to Hanover that was made independent of the intended military operations under lord Cathcart, were for the enlistment of Hanoverian troops for our service. That he presumed was strictly a military application, and therefore ought to be estimated in the annual Army Extraordinaries.Lord H. Petty
274273l.l.l. rose, pursuant to his notice of yesterday, to call the attention of the house to a subject which, in point of its principle, deeply involved their most valuable privileges. It appeared, by an account laid upon the table by order, of the house, that in the month of May, in the, course of the last sessions, a system had begun to be acted upon, which called for the most serious interpositon of that house: at that period money had been issued to foreign ministers without the consent of the commons house of parliament. It appeared that the sum of 5,000274273l.l.l.Lord Henry Petty
l.l.l.276l.l. denied that there was any comparison between the sum of 85,000l.l.l.276l.l.Mr. Tierney
277, pursuant to notice, moved, That there be laid before the house a Return of all the annual Regimental Accounts now in the War Office, specifying which were separate and which not, and also which had been carried into warrant from the 25th Dec. 1797 to the 25th Dec. 1808, and specifying whether for cavalry, infantry, or militia.—The hon. gent. also proposed to move for an Account of the Deficiencies of the several paymasters within the same period. The reason why he brought forward this motion was, that he might call the attention of the house to the Sixth Report of Military Inquiry, as the papers on the table were not sufficient to place the subject fully in the possession of the house, and that, though the clerks in the War Office had been increased since 1797,
277Mr. Wardle
 declared that he had not meant any thing personal to the right hon. Secretary at War; neither did he feel any personal hostility to his majesty's ministers; for he could assure them that he did not wish to see any other set of gentlemen in their places. All he had in view in his motion was to shew, that there were faults in the conduct of the Office to which it referred, which faults he wished to have corrected. He would withdraw his motion until some day next week. The motion was thon withdrawn.Mr. Wardle
l.l. had no desire to press his motion, if his majesty's ministers were resolved to oppose it. Why had they not made the arrangements alluded to, in all the period since June last, when the Report was laid before the house? He believed it likely, that no arrangement was in contemplation, till after he had given notice of this motion. But he could assure the house, that unless an entire change of system should take place, much loss would accrue to the public. What cost 50,000l.l.Mr. Wardle
l. contended that the periodical grants of 5,250l.Mr. Huskisson
301 was prepared, without any call, such as that made by the hon. gent. who had just sat down, to communicate to the house the measures that had been taken by the Treasury with respect to this Report. When gentlemen considered that it was only on the 25th of March that the Report had been presented to the house; that some delay had taken place in the printing of it; and that it was not in the hands of gentlemen until within a fortnight of the time when notice of this motion was given, they would not think it surprising that no measures had been taken by the Treasury before the notice of this motion was given. He could, however, state that the Treasury had applied to the Committee of the Privy Council, to call upon these Commissioners to give in their accounts to the Treasury, to be then transferred to the Auditors of Public Accounts to be passed. The Treasury had also; adopting the suggestion of the Committee, proposed that the rate of remuneration should be 5 per cent. on the net proceeds, the Commissioners being to defray the charges of their establishment, and to pay interest for any sums which they may have kept at their private bankers. It appeared, that in some of the sales there had been no net proceeds, but an actual loss, and it was thought right that the amount of these losses should be deducted from the net proceeds. From this statement the house would be able to judge whether the conduct of government merited that general censure which the Resolutions of the hon. gent. went to pass upon all the governments that had successively existed since the appointment of these Commissioners; a censure, too, which undoubtedly would least of all apply to the present government. But, was the case such as to call for this censure? This Commission was an anomalous case. Parliament took the business out of the regular course in which it would have been administered under the authority of the Court of Admiralty. No remuneration was assigned for the Commissioners, because that was never done in the case of parliamentary Commissioners. Besides, it was not for the government, in the first instance, to fix upon any particular amount of remuneration. To shew what had been the conduct of the present government, he should refer to the Commissioners for Portuguese property, who were directed to restore the whole of the property, without any deduction of per cent-
301The Chancellor of the Exchequer
303 stated, that previous to the passing the act of the 25th of the king, there had existed no effectual mode of passing and auditing accounts. Under that act these Commissioners, as public accountants, would be compelled to go with their accounts to the Public Auditors. I any blame was imputable to any government, it undoubtedly must be to that government which existed when these Commissioners had been appointed. But the act by which they had been appointed required them to furnish their accounts when called for, and to take their instructions from the privy council.—As to the proportion of their remuneration, his idea was, that when their business should be completed, that point would be settled; but he never could have had an idea that they would take to themselves a poundage upon their sales. To him personally, if any blame was imputable to any one, it might be said to attach. But as to what had been stated by the hon. gent. who opened this business, relative to any leaning he might be supposed to have towards one of these Commissioners, (Mr. John Bowles) he could assure that hon. gent., that he knew as much of that person, and was as well acquainted with him as he was himself. And what was more, he could
303Mr. Rose
320l.319 thought it impossible that
320l.319Mr. Ponsonby
322321 rose and said: Mr. Speaker; I am aware, Sir, that I am about to volunteer upon a most arduous service, for I really rise with the view of offering a few words in behalf of that arch Anti Jacobin, Mr. John Bowles. In so doing, it is right I should premise that I can be influenced by no consideration of a personal nature; for my acquaintance with Mr. Bowles is so slight, that I never was in his house, nor he in mine: but I am influenced by those feelings, of which every man of a liberal mind must partake, when he hears such outrageous abuse lavished on a person who is not present to defend himself. This abuse has come with the worst grace imaginable from the hon. gentleman who has most indulged in it; for, if party zeal and party spirit be a sin, he may well exclaim with Falstaff, "Lord help the wicked." The hon. gentleman kept his temper perfectly well till he touched upon the 30 pamphlets which he attributes to the pen of Mr. Bowles; but at the mention of these pamphlets all his wrath was awakened, and I am justified in presuming that he means to visit the sins of the pamphleteer upon the head of the Dutch Commissioner. I maintain, Sir, that Mr. Bowles has as much right to publish his sentiments on any political topics, or on the public conduct of any public men, as the hon. gentleman himself. If the hon. gentleman disapproved the sentiments contained in those pamphlets, he was at liberty to answer them. Nay, for what I know, he may have answered them, for he also is a pamphleteer; and this perhaps, accounts for the extraordinary asperity in which he has indulged against Mr. Bowles, for two of a trade, they say, can never agree. Wits are gamecocks to one another; and the hon. gent.
322321Mr. Marryatt
 for Scotland contended, that his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had no wish to veil the conduct of the Commissioners. He only wished to avoid passing an unmerited censure on government. If on examining the accounts of the Commissioners to the bottom it should turn out that fraud had been committed, parliament might then direct criminal steps to be taken.The Solicitor General
324 maintained, that the executive was acting with the most scrupulous minuteness in giving effect to the Reports of the Finance and other Com-
324Mr. Secretary Canning
 contended for the Resolutions of Mr. Ord. He could not perceive any impropriety in what was called the general censure upon government, as the Resolutions only stated facts. He commented in strong terms on the misconduct and prevarications of the Commissioners. It was not enough to appoint Committees. Their opinions and decisions ought to be followed up by the house so as to give the public the advantages they ought to derive from their investigations and reports. If the house shrunk from its duty, the public would entertain and express its opinion on their conduct.Lord Henry Petty
325 spoke with much force and animation on the duty the house owed to its own character, and to the public, to come to a decision on the merits of these Commissioners. He thought the object of ministers was to do any thing that might suit their purposes, not to prevent that house from doing any act that might gain them credit with the public. The Attorney-General, or the
325Mr. Tierney
 was sorry to see the government coupled with the conduct of the Commissioners, which he considered such as the house was bound to mark their indignation against.Mr. Henry Smith
l. explained, that although the Commissioners were not absolutely required by the act under which they were appointed, to put the money in their hands out at interest for the public advantage, yet they had put it out for their own emolument, and had put thereby a sum of 44,000l.Mr. H. Thornton
neglect in order to obviate the objections to the several Resolutions, proposed to consolidate them in one, and in such terms as should meet general approbation. The Resolution he proposed to substitute for them was as follows: "That. the Commissioners appointed in the year 1795 for the disposal of captured Dutch property, taking advantage of the neglectMr. H. Thornton,
l.l.299l. felt it necessary, as chairman of the Committee which had made the Report, to state, that he most cordially concurred in every part of that Report. He would have wished, however, to have assigned some annual rate of remuneration to the commissioners, rather than a percentage, because he thought it desirable for parliament to shew that it would not countenance the practice of giving to such Commissioners an allowance upon the proceeds of their sales. The remuneration, as recommended in the report by the Committee, was now 10,000l.l.299l.Mr. H. Thornton
 observed that the public mind had been disgusted with what had happened in that house in several recent cases. He alluded, as we understood, to the fate of the Reversion Bill, the cases of the Duke of York, lord Castlereagh, &c. &c. and now he feared the minister wished to complete this terrible climax, by refusing his assent to a mark of reprobation on a transaction, respecting the nature of which no man could doubt. He beseeched ministers and the house not to degrade parliament in the eyes of the country. It was impossible that the present system could go on much longer. If government set its face against public justice, the worst consequences might follow.—He begged of the right honourable the Chancellor of the Exchequer to open his eyes to what he was about. This was the moment in which it was possible to restore confidence to the people. He begged of him to pause before he carried through a vote of so painful a nature as that now proposed by him.Mr. Barham
 condemned the conduct of ministers in attempting to stifle inquiry and censure on this, as on other occasions; and considered the proceedings of the Commissioners as a compound of fraud and peculation, for which the Attorney-General ought to be directed to prosecuteMr. Peter Moore
318317316315314Anti-313Populus me sibilat. Populus sibilabit,312l.l.,311l."I am all for the Publico Bono.""I'll hang upon a peg:"My gown and my wigl.l.310noscuntur a socio;noscitur a sociis;309308Proh pudor! et veritas!l.307306305304 rose and said; Sir; there are several reasons which prevent my suffering this question to go to a vote without expressing my opinion upon the conduct of the Dutch Commissioners, and of those who ought to have paid some attention to their proceedings. A great smoke has long issued from the office of the Dutch Commissioners. Persons have often said that the Dutch Commission was a great job, that if it were enquired into, it would be found to be so: but no mortal alive ever expected to find such a blazing fire as that which is now known to have been so long burning in Broad-street. The right hon. gent. who has just sat down (Mr. Rose) has, after the fashion of a noble colleague of his in office, behaved himself with great decency: he has candidly confessed the omissions of that Board of Treasury with which he was connected; his own in particular, as arising out of the situation in which he was formerly placed, where it was his more peculiar duty to have attended to what these gentlemen were about.—It must be said of the noble lord (Castlereagh) and the right hon. gent. (Mr. Rose) that at the place of execution they have conducted themselves with decency and contrition; and in allowing the justice of the sentence passed upon them, or rather which ought to be passed upon them, I cannot help feeling some compassion for their unhappy lot. But the Dutch Commissioners, Sir, enter no such claims. When convicted of guilt upon the most undeniable evidence, after having in vain attempted every subterfuge; after having been allowed every possible mode of evasion and explanation, they, by a paper
318317316315314Anti-313Populus me sibilat. Populus sibilabit,312l.l.,311l."I am all for the Publico Bono.""I'll hang upon a peg:"My gown and my wigl.l.310noscuntur a socio;noscitur a sociis;309308Proh pudor! et veritas!l.307306305304Mr. Whitbread
291 then gave notice of a
291Mr. Whitbread
 put a question respecting M. Charmilly, whose name had been frequently mentioned in a late debate in that house; and, as the subject had reference to the Spanish question, he thought it necessary to receive an answer, before the discussion on that question should take place. M. Charmilly, he understood, was in the half-pay of the British establishment as a lieutenant-colonel; and rumours were afloat, that he had also, in addition to his half-pay, received a pension. The object of his question, therefore, was to ascertain the fact, whether or not that gentleman had such a provision.Mr. Whitbread
 replied, that M. Charmilly was allowed to receive his full pay; and that he was not aware of any other provision having been made for that gentleman.Mr. Huskisson
 spoke in vindication of the Treasury. The Dutch Commissioners, he said, were parliamentary commissioners; and it was considered, that, as in all similar cases, their remuneration was to be considered at the termination of their labours; but he never did conceive them entitled to deduct any percentage for their own remuneration from the money passing through their hands, nor that they were entitled to poundage as prize agents. When the immense increase of business in the department of the Treasury since 1793, was considered, and the inadequacy of the number of persons allotted to transact that business, it was morally impossible that some things should not escape attention. He could appeal to the noble lord opposite him (lord H. Petty) for the truth of this observation; and the cause he could fairly assert existed in the backwardness of those at the head of affairs to increase the number of officers, and thereby add to the public expence, by which they would also expose themselves to the imputation of extending patronage. Notwithstanding the addition of an Assistant Secretary, and the indefatigable labours of himself and his colleagues, it was impossible to prevent the business from going into arrears. Under such circumstances, then, it was not surprizing if some omissions occasionally occurred.Mr. Huskisson
 moved that the Fourth Report of the Committee of Public expenditure should be entered as read. This being done,Mr. Ord
298297l.l.l.296l.l.l.295l.l.,l.l.l.294l.l.293l.292 rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the house to the matters detailed in that Report. It must have struck every one that the circumstances of the case stated in that Report were such as to call for the most serious attention of
298297l.l.l.296l.l.l.295l.l.,l.l.l.294l.l.293l.292Mr. Ord
l.l.302 would not consent that this motion should be withdrawn, or disposed of by the previous question. If ever there had been an instance of malversation of trust, it was this one new under discussion. In all parts of the Report there appeared proofs of trangressions of the act of parliament, of an abandonment of their duty, and of their instructions under that act, upon the part of these Commissioners. Their accounts had been made up apparently according to their instructions, but in reality with a view of disguising the real state of their illegal profits. If such malpractices, when proved incontestibly, should not be marked by the severest censure of that house, it would be an encouragement to corruption. Their conduct was aggravated by the manner in which they had given their evidence before the Committee. On their examination, they gave amended and explanatory answers to the questions which were put to them, but which, in fact, amounted to nothing else than gross prevarication, and direct, falsifications of their former testimony. They had presumed to say that they placed their balances in the hands of private bankers, as public officers do. Did public officers really do so? Good God!
l.l.302Sir John Newport
337 did not rise to oppose the motion, but to observe
337The Chancellor of the Exchequer
338 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for contriving the means of draining and reclaiming the Bogs of Ireland. That this measure was desirable no man acquainted with Ireland could hesitate to admit, and that it was practicable must be obvious from a consideration of the state of the Bog of Allen, which was the largest Bog in that country. It was ascertained through the locks erected upon the canals, that the solid earth was not less than 180 feet above the level of the sea. Of course no doubt could exist as to the practicability of draining it. The object of his bill was to appoint commissioners who should undertake without salaries to examine the other Bogs of Ireland, and to suggest the means by which they might be drained, and the interests of all proprietors conciliated. The expence of such Commissioners was not to exceed an allowance to surveyors, or the persons immediately employed in exploring the Bogs. As to the benefits likely to result from this undertaking, the right hon. gentleman thought it unnecessary to say more, than that half the ground of those reclaimed Bogs, converted to purposes of agriculture, would produce in a year more corn than had ever been imported into Great Britain in any one year, while the other half would grow more hemp and flax, for which the ground would be peculiarly calculated,
338Mr. Foster
 was of the same opinion, and could not agree with those who were against preparation, from the supposition that invasion was not to be dreaded, and that the deliverance of Europe, or any part of it, was absolutely hopeless.Mr. Hawkins Browne
 saw no reason in the arguments of the right hon. gentleman to change the wise system which parliament had adopted. With respect to the expedition against Martinique, he should say that, independent of commercial advantages, the exclusion of France from any possession in that quarter of the world, must at least diminish the drafts of British troops to the defence of our colonial possessions.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the bill had already been so fully and frequently discussed, that even the rich and fertile mind of the right hon. gent. Mr. Windham had not that night been able to advance any thing new upon it. It was not, therefore, to be wondered at, that the members of that house, who had listened to so many discussion, and made up their minds on the subject, should not think it necessary to attend this last stage of it. It was that, and not any inattention to the interests of the public, that caused so thin a house at that moment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that it was the invariable custom for every member to prepare and bring forward his own bill; still if any clerk belonging to the house should refuse to give a member any assistance in his power, when asked to do so, such conduct would be without excuse. Whether any officer should be specially appointed to aid members in drawing up their bills, it would be for the house itself to consider. He only stated the practice, and he would only add, that every member must know from his own experience, here, and elsewhere, that it was not a thing of utter impracticability for any member to write a few sheets of paper.—Leave was given to bring in the bill.The Speaker
l. said, he thought the great danger of the country at the present crisis would arise from the enormous increase of its expenditure. The house ought, therefore, carefully to guard against all unnecessary expences; and as the present measure would, without any just cause, add 1,200,000l.Mr. H. Martin
340 said, that little as he had made military matters his study, he could not help being struck with the case made out this night by the hon. baronet (sir T. Turton) and the right hon. gentleman
340Mr. P. Moore
 thought that those general declarations against standing armies were very dangerous at the present times. Experience had abundantly proved that it was only by regular armies well supplied, that regular armies were to be effectually resisted. If we wished for security, we must not refuse to pay for it. He disapproved very much of the language which had been held out of doors, and which went to persuade people that this was an enslaved country. For his part, he conceived that it was the most free and happy country in the universe, and he was thankful to providence for assigning it as his lot to be born in this country, and in the present times. As to the conduct of ministers with respect to Spain and Portugal, he thought they were rather too forward than too backward in the assistance they gave. This was an error, however, on the right side, and agreeable to the general feeling of the nation.Mr. Wilberforce
339 spoke in support of those
339Mr. Windham
 could not suffer this bill finally to pass through the house without giving it his reprehension. He could not consent to keep up a much larger standing army than the necessity of the times required, and he therefore saw no necessity for adding to it now, when there was no immediate danger of invasion. As for sending armies to the continent to contend against the armies of France, he thought that this country was in no situation to cope by land with France, and therefore that we should not attempt it. The annual expence of our military force was now prodigious, amounting to nearly 25 millions, while we had in arms near 700,000 men. He saw no reason for such a vast expenditure of money, or for tearing so many men from their ordinary avocations.Sir T. Turton
l.l.;l.l.336 rose, agreeably to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the relief of
l.l.;l.l.336Sir Thomas Turton
 opposed the motion, on the grounds that there was no precedent to support it; that there was no occasion for it, as it could produce no public good; and that it could not afford any adequate information on the subject without a comparison with the sick in other armies at home. He had no wish to disguise, that from the great fatigue it had undergone, the army in question had had a greater proportion of sick than most other armies, and that a fever had prevailed on its first lauding in this country. By the exertion of the medical men, however, this had been got under; and he was happy to say that the army was now restored to perfect health. He saw no reason, therefore, having never heard any complaints on the subject alluded to by the noble lord, for departing from the general rule, particularly where a deviation from it was likely to produce injurious rather than beneficial effects.Lord Castlereagh
 declared, that no such complaints had ever come to his ears, either directly or indirectly, and that this was the first intimation he had ever heard on the subject. He pledged himself to enquire into the fact.Lord Castlereagh
 said, if there had been no particular inquiry hitherto upon that point, it was because be had never heard such a complaint made before; and there was nothing on the face of the papers to lead him to suspect any fault in this department. As the subject, however, had been mentioned in the house, he should make it his business to inquire particularly.Lord Castlereagh
 could not see that the papers moved for would throw any material light on the subject. The number of those killed and wounded in a campaign, or the number who died subsequently, either of their wounds, or the fatigue of a very rapid retreat in the midst of winter, would not, of itself, imply any charge against the medical board, or medical assistants. The house should be satisfied, or at least have reason to believe, that there was some loss occasioned by this cause, before they instituted inquiry. It, however, any regular complaint was made of actual loss from either of those causes, he would allow, that it would be proper that there should be an inquiry.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the motion was proper upon other grounds. If any unusual number of men were lost upon any expedition, it was necessary to find out the cause. If, instead of the blame attaching to the medical board, it was found to have proceeded from bad arrangements in the transport service, and from the manner in which they were embarked; this also, though affecting ministers more than the medical board, was a proper subject of inquiry, and it was therefore necessary that the facts should be ascertained.Mr. Freemantle
 said, it was true that no such return was called for when the troops returned from Dunkirk or the Helder; but then they were by no means so numerous as those upon the expeditions to Portugal and Spain, who also had suffered much greater hardships. As a soldier, he rejected the assertion of the noble lord, that such an inquiry had a tendency to damp the ardour of the troops. On the contrary, nothing could more highly excite that ardour, or more firmly attach them to the service, than to find a strict attention paid by their leaders to provide for their accommodations, their comforts, and their wants. No evil could result from the enquiry in the present case. If the rumour was unfounded, the fallacy would be proved, and the country satisfied.General Tarleton
 was of opinion, that where the country incurred great expence in paying an Apothecary-General, and a great Medical Staff, it became the duty of that house to see that the business for which these gentlemen were paid was properly attended to. He understood that complaints had been made, not only of a deficiency of medical aid in this army, but also of a deficiency of medical stores. He admitted that our army was greatly exposed to disease, both in the course of the campaign, and also on its return home, and that the detail of such distresses would be disastrous to contemplate. But, on the other hand, if complaints were made that these disasters proceeded from a want of medical aid, or from a deficiency of medical stores, he thought it impossible for the noble lord to refuse compliance with the motion.
Mr. Whitbread
l.d.l.l.l.341, referring to the accounts laid before the house, of the incidental expences of the Stamp Office departments in Eng-
l.d.l.l.l.341Mr. Whitbread
 agreed that the premiums for procuring good bills for the purpose of transmitting the Duties from Scotland to England, were an unnecessary expence. It arose from this circumstance, that the Bills sent were at ten instead of forty or fifty days. It was not necessary, however, that the bills should be at ten days date, and in future this expence would be avoided. To explain that, till now, the existence of this mode of conducting the business was unknown, he should move for a letter from G. Harrison, esq. on that subject.Mr. Huskisson
344 said, he would not feel comfortable in negativing a motion which proceeded from an anxiety to inquire into any thing which concerned the lives or health of those concerned in expeditions.
344Mr. Wilberforce
342,
342Earl Temple
, in consequence of this promise of the noble lord, consented to withdraw his motion.Earl Temple
353 rose for the purpose of stating to the house, hat when he first moved for the Papers new on the table relative to colonel Ogle's Levy, he had applied to the conduct of that gentleman some strong terms; among others, that he had been guilty of perjury, fraud, and forgery. Since then he, from further inquiry, found that he was in error, and that no such serious charge was attributable to colonel Ogle. He
353Lord Folkestone
371 said, the question of the late inquiry had already been disposed of, and he should therefore limit his observations to the motion only. His right hon. friend who had just sat down had argued this as a measure of Parliamentary Reform, and that the house should therefore reject it as such. There was a notice of a motion on that subject on the books, and when it came forward, it would then be time enough to argue that question. He could have wished that his right hon. friend, before he exerted his influence to reject the motion, would have condescended to consider what it really was, and then he would not have had occasion to combat the phantom which he himself had raised. He would state his opinion of the motion, and the reason why it had been brought forward. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had lately introduced a bill to prevent trafficking in places. He (lord Folkestone) had stated that at the treasury there existed a market, where a traffic was carried on for seats in that house, and that in consequence thereof persons came into that house bound to vote as they were ordered. There was at that moment an appearance on the other side of the house, as if they meant to deny the fact; but on its being more roundly asserted by an hon. friend of his not then in the house (Mr. Creevey,) ministers reverted to recrimination. He (lord Folkestone) then declared that he would move a clause on this subject, to be added to the bill; but upon Mr. Curwen's giving notice of this motion, he gave up the idea of introducing that clause. His right hon. friend who spoke last, had said it was senseless to sup-
371Lord Folkestone
374373372 said, that the manner in which the hon. gent. had brought forward his motion, made it necessary for him to trouble the house at greater length than he would have wished to do. The noble lord who had just sat down, had given notice of a clause which he intended to bring forward, to be added to the Bill which he (Mr. Perceval) had introduced and he had promised the noble lord to give such clause a candid and serious consideration. He did also mean, and still continued in the same mind, to give an impartial judgment on the merits of the present bill; but it was impossible he could do so at present, for he could not by any means form an opinion in what way or on what grounds the hon. gent. meant to obtain his object. There seemed to him to be an impracticability of doing it, but he would not oppose his bringing in the bill, in order that he and the house might be able to judge what the merits and demerits of it might be. But, in agreeing to the motion of the hon. gent. for leave to bring in his bill, he begged distinctly to be understood not to give any pledge to concur in the measure, or to consent to any project of alteration, regulation, or reform, such as that proposed by the hon. member. He could not, under the call of the hon. gent., pledge himself to support his measure throughout, though he should agree to its introduction, because as far as he was able to judge of it from the statement of the hon. gent. himself, he did not think he could put it into any practicable shape, which would entitle it to the adoption of parliament. The hon. gent. at the time he admitted that it was not right to hold out any language to the people, which might excite hopes that were not likely to be realized, stated in the same breath, that the people had a settled opinion that a reform in parliament
374373372The Chancellor of the Exchequer
375 heard with satisfaction the intent on of the right hon. gent. to support the motion of his hon. friend, so far as the introduction of the measure. This measure was simply an act of regulation, and, as it did not make any part of the question of Parliamentary Reform, he should abstain from making any observation upon that subject. The hon. gent. who proposed this measure to the house had said, that he would not value the support of any man who would not continue that support whether in or out of office. For his part, he had never given support to any measure that he did not continue to the end; and he was then out of office because he would not abandon the support of a measure which he looked upon as essential to the vital interests of this empire. But in demanding such a pledge, the hon. member must suppose two things; first, that his measure was such as a member could support; and next, that it was practicable. As far as he could judge from the statement of his hon. friend, he forked upon the measure he proposed not only as right and practicable, but not likely to produce any of the dangers apprehended by his right hon. friend. It would be impossible, however, to give an unlimited pledge until the measure should be before the house, and they could have an opportunity of examining
375Mr. Ponsonby
377376 was of opinion that his right hon. friend (Mr. Windham) had unnecessarily blended this measure with Parliamentary Reform. Me was pleased with the candid manner in which the proposition had been received by his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), when he admitted that the bill might be entertained. Many of the topics which had been introduced during
377376Mr. Bathurst
 Having called the right hon. gent. to order, the hon. member must proceed to prove him out of order, otherwise he is himself acting most disorderly. (Hear! hear! from all parts of the house).The Speaker.
 It will become the hon. member to be on his guard how he commits such an act of disorder, as to interrupt, by a call to order, any hon. member on his legs.The Speaker.
 disapproved of the measure, because it would have the effect of excluding a great portion of the wisdom and talents it possessed from that house. If the bill passed, it would not satisfy the persons at the Crown and Anchor that their charges of bribery and corruption were not well founded. The bill could not lead to any beneficial result, and in opposing it he trusted that he should not be considered as more a friend to corruption than any other hon. member. The bill he thought could not be rejected too soon.Mr. I. H. Browne
380379 did not intend to trouble the house at any length. He was totally at a loss to account why the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not oppose the bringing in the bill, when he had expressed so determined a resolution to oppose it in its progress. Did he say, that the evils, which it was the object of the bill to remedy, did not exist? If he did, why did he allow the bill to be brought in? He was obliged to the right hon. gent. below him (Mr. Bathurst) for the qualified promised support he had given him: but he would not admit that he was in the smallest degree obliged to the right hon. gent. on the opposite bench. Was
380379Mr. Curwen
367366365364sin quâ non363362361à fortiori,360**359358357356355354 rose and spoke as follows: Mr. speaker; the question of which I have given notice, and am now called on to submit to the consideration of the house, is as important as any recently brought under their consideration. It is not without the deepest regret I feel myself compelled to advert to the existence of practices derogatory to the honour and reputation of this branch of the legislature. I shall not disguise my full conviction that heavy responsibility attaches to the agitating unnecessarily, at such a crisis, measures by which the feelings of the people may be still more irritated: when I consider the dangers and difficulties to which the country is exposed, I am ready likewise to admit that the present moment, if the choice was open to us, would be the least proper for such an investigation. In common with other gentlemen, I feel it to be the bounden duty of us all, whatever may be our political sentiments, to promote union, and give efficacy to every measure calculated for the general safety and defence of the country.367366365364sin quâ non363362361à fortiori,360**359358357356355354Mr. Curwen
 begged to apologize to the right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham) for having interrupted him, which had arisen from the state to which his feelings had been excited, by observing an hon. member the third from him, interrupt him, whilst speaking so nobly to the subject. He could assure the Speaker on the honour of a gentleman, and his family had been for two centuries as honourable as any others in the kingdom, that he had not meant any disrespect to him. On the contrary, he had ever supported him, even against the miserable fellows who sometimes wrangled with him, (loud cries of "Question, question," and laughter). Well, he would come to the question. With regard to this same swearing, it was much beyond his comprehension, and so totally out of his way (loud laughter) that he would have nothing at all to say to it; and so he would leave them. (The hon. member then took his hat, made his bow to the Speaker, and walked out).Mr. Fuller
 I saw some gentlemen next to the right hon. gent. interrupting him by whispers; and, Mr. Speaker, I disdain to do any thing wrong as much as you do. (Universal cries of Chair! chair!)Mr. Fuller.
 rose to order. (Cries of Order! order! Chair! chair!)Mr. Fuller
378 expressed his regret that a spirit like that displayed in the very able speech of the last speaker did not pervade the house. He could not conceive what right any man had to throw the smallest reflection on the advocates of Parliamentary Reform. The principles upon which they proposed to proceed had the sanction of lord Chatham, Mr. Pitt, and Mr. Fox, three of the greatest men that ever appeared in this or any other country. Would any of the puny mortals of the present day think of setting themselves up against such men? Did any man mean to say that these persons were insincere? Would they have brought forward the subject, if they were insincere? And now, Gentlemen,—[a roar of laughter, which continued for several minutes. Mr. Smith was one of the speakers at the late meeting at the Crown and Anchor.] There was an opinion among the people, that members of parliament ought to be independent of all except their constituents. In that opinion he concurred, and that was his view of Reform. This measure was so far connected with Reform, that it went a certain way to secure the independence which he had stated. He perfectly agreed that no expectations ought to be held out to the people that could not be realized, but he totally dif-
378Mr. W. Smith
370argumentum à rentali,argumentum ad absurdum,argumentum ad hominems.369 continued.—Among the various plans which had heretofore appeared of Parliamentary Reform, that of universal suffrage was the most predominant. The monied interest might then say, it is very well for you who have landed property, but it won't do for us: other objections would be raised by those who had neither money nor lands, and it would eventually turn out just as the French revolution had done. Nothing could do: it would be impossible to produce a plan at which one party or the other would not snap their fingers. Of late days he had
370argumentum à rentali,argumentum ad absurdum,argumentum ad hominems.369Mr. Windham
368in limine, said, he had no doubt but the house was willing and desirous to receive and discuss every question in a cause which ought to be heard; but there might be instances in which a party ought not to be heard at all, instances in which, as in the courts of law, the plaintiff should be nonsuited. This was peculiarly the case with respect to Parliamentary Reform, in which nineteen in twenty, or perhaps 900 in a thousand, held such different, wild, and extravagant notions, that it was impossible any man could form a just or fair opinion of what they would be at. There were some measures which ought to be rejected 368in limine,Mr. Windham
 entirely agreed in the very able speech made by the right hon. gent. (Mr. Bathurst) on the bench below. He wished it to be understood, that the principle upon which he agreed to the motion was the principle which pervaded, what, by the courtesy of the house, was called the Grenville bill, a measure for which he had an hereditary veneration. It was upon that principle that he wished success to the bill of the hon. gent. He would support the bill also, because it took away one of the greatest arguments in favour of Parliamentary Reform. It would diffuse a salutary confidence in parliament throughout the country. With this retrospective view, and looking forward to the future, the motion should have his cordial support.Earl Temple
 (rising under evident agitation) said, that he knew not what course was pursued in 1700, the æra of the hon. member's precedents; but through the whole of his acquaintance with the proceedings of that house, he never knew any instance when an accusation was brought forward against a member, that the substance of such accusation was not previously communicated to him; and that, through the common courtesy of the house, he was not allowed to be heard in his defence. The hon. member, however, was the best judge of the course he meant to pursue. Under these circumstances, nothing remained for him but to make his bow, and leave the question to the decision of the house. [The right hon. member immediately left the house].The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that his hon. friend had no objection to state the particulars of that information, which he meant to lay before the house. He always understood that a member informing the house that a report had reached him of corrupt practices, was held sufficient grounds to proceed upon. The house had often proceeded to hear evidence at the bar, upon even slighter grounds than the mere knowledge of members.Sir F. Burden
384"Spargere voces in vulgum amhiguas"— conceived there was something extremely irregular in the form of proceeding proposed by the hon. member. It was a form of proceeding better adapted to the genius and spirit of one of the meetings that were so frequent, and so industriously promoted, than befitting the temper and dignity of that house. It would well become that meeting in which the extraordinary proposition was made and approved, that a man holding a place under government was not fit to sit in that house. Such propositions were not intended for the sober consideration of parliament. No; their object was to increase the popular ferment, to add fuel to fire; and to encourage and propagate that dangerous spirit that was circulated with a diligence the most suspicious.
384"Spargere voces in vulgum amhiguas"—Mr. Bathurst
 explained, that he certainly had no knowledge of the hon. member. What he said relating to factious meetings was meant to apply to the honourable member; but he now understood that he never attended any of those meetings, and he therefore begged pardon for having so alluded to him.Mr. Bathurst
 thought there could be but one sentiment in the house on the subject of the present motion. Considering the mode in which it was brought forward, and the mistake in the case of the precedent referred to, he was convinced that the house ought to mark its opinion in so decided a manner, as not to render itself liable to a recurrence of such a proceeding. He rose, therefore, to advise the house not to agree to the withdrawing of the motion, but without intending any personal disrespect to the hon. mover. He should consequently oppose any motion of that nature, and call for the marked opinion of the house.Mr. Secretary Canning
390 spoke with great animation in reprobation of the motion. He considered it as unjust and ridiculous. Were honourable gentlemen so ignorant of the history of their country, of the forms and privileges of that house, in which they had the honour to sit, as to encourage a motion so unjust and unprecedented? Every man who was conversant in the pro-
390Mr. Yorke
391 had never heard of such charges, unsupported by proofs, as were made from the opposite side of the house. The benches below him were, it seemed, the guards of the public purse. What then, became of ministers, and of all the rest of the house? The most severe remarks had been introduced upon public meetings. He had happened to attend at one of them for the specific purpose of celebrating, in common with all the na-
391Mr. Lyttleton
 had not attended any of the public meetings, and from his habits of life it was not likely he should attend them; but he joined in expressions of surprize at the language he had heard. If such language was correct, be should suppose that the house of commons had nothing to do with the people, but were of their own creation. If the tendency of the doctrines he had lately heard were encouraged and acted upon, he should bid adieu to the liberties of the country, and should account his being sent to parliament not an honour but a degradation. If it were thought just and expedient to attack the meetings of the public, it would be better at once to vote the constitution at an end. He conceived it to be a public duty to obtain reform in every constitutional way.Mr. Hutchinson
395 said, that whatever wish gentlemen might have to proceed further in this inquiry, he could hardly suppose them serious in proposing to call witnesses to the bar, and to consume much of the time of the house on a business of this nature. If it were necessary to leave the further consideration of such a business to a committee, the inquiry should be left to a select committee, and the time of the house should not be wasted by a long examination of witnesses. He hoped, however, that they would not think any further proceeding necessary when they should hear the statement he had to make. The case had since been inquired
395The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that col. Gordon bid for this ground as any other man might have done; and if any blame belonged to the transaction, that blame did not appear to attach to that officer.Earl Percy
398the Job.> said, that with respect to the bargain, so far as it affected the public, it was an absolute job. The pensioners were to be immured to give advantage to colonel Gordon's pleasure-grounds; and though, according to the speech of the hon. gent. who had just sat down, that officer would not take advantage of the soldier, he seemed to have no objection to take advantage of the ground. This was, in his opinion, the only spot in England fit for the purpose of an infirmary for the hospital, and he would be happy to give double the sum col. Gordon was to pay for it, and secure it on any of his estates, for the sole purpose of giving it up to the hospital, rather than this monument of national munificence should be disfigured. He thought this the greatest job he had ever heard of; it was a job of all jobs, and ought to be distinguished by the name of 398the Job.Sir Francis Burdett
 contended, that the hon. baronet had misrepresented the fact; though, he had no doubt he had done so from misconception. No idea had been formed of making the Infirmary for the poor invalids to resemble a prison.Mr. Yorke
 explained, and said he never supposed there was any fraud or delusion; but that if on inquiry it should be found a desirable thing, and that, on the new plan of Mr. Soame, the hospital would be benefited by it, the Treasury would endeavour to get the grant relinquished.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 presented to the house, the followingMr. Canning
the Job. said, the hon. baronet opposite (sir F. Burdett), who was always loud against abuses, had characterised this as being of all jobs the worst; that indeed it should be called the Job.Mr. Worthy
397 spoke at some length on the propriety of granting every comfort and indulgence to old worn-out sol-
397General Tarleton
 thought the motion irregular, as it contained no specific charge, nor had been introduced with any detail of circumstances or statement of facts.Mr. C. Wynn
 said, the board never heard a word of complaint on this subject till the 13th of April, till the morning of the very day on which the hon. baronet first brought the matter before the house; and they immediately began an investigation of the subject, and had continued their inquiries ever since. It had been said no individual ought to have this ground, but that it should be converted to the general use of the hospital. He thought so as much as any one, and no man would be more ready to put it to that use, if proved to be advantageous to the hospital. He wished the Minutes of Evidence taken before the board since the 13th of April should be laid before the house. They would then see what had been done. As soon as this motion was negatived, be should move that those Minutes of Evidence be laid before the house, and if, after they had seen those and the other papers which his right hon. friend meant to bring forward, the house should not be satisfied, they might then have recourse to a select committee.Mr. Long
l. was astonished at the report of the surveyors, who estimated the value of this ground, as he knew many members of that house who would give 2,000l.Mr. Biddulph
 thought it extraordinary that the right hon. member, with whom he had not the least acquaintance, and who knew but little of him, should charge him with participating in factious meetings, and—Mr. Biddulph
383 thought it was the duty of the right hon. members against whom the charges were brought, to stand up and second the motion, if it were only for the purpose of clearing their characters. After what had been said in that house, respecting these corrupt practices, it was impossible not to take notice of the subject. The house
383Mr. Biddulph
 rose to order. It appeared to him that the hon. member totally misunderstood the last speaker.Mr. Whitbread
389'Spargere voces in vulgum ambiguas."388387386 rose to offer a few words. He commenced by noticing the curious reason assigned by the right hon. the Secretary of State for refusing to permit the motion to be withdrawn, and then negativ-
389'Spargere voces in vulgum ambiguas."388387386Mr. Whitbread
 expressed his astonishment to hear accusations and censures on gentlemen for an ancient, acknowledged constitutional practice of Englishmen, in attending public meetings. This, he had been always taught, ignorant as perhaps he was of the history of the country. Meetings of the people for the attainment of a moderate Reform, conducted with regularity and order, did not lead to public mischief, but to open the eyes of the country and of the house. He avowed that be was a steward at one of those meetings, and joined in recommending to the counties to petition parliament for the desired Reform, temperately, vet urgently. That embraced the entire object of the meeting. He was ready at any time, to defend his conduct on the principles of our forefathers, and should continue to be guided by those principles. He rose chiefly at present to repel unfounded aspersions.Mr. Brand
l.l. said, that in whatever observation he had made with respect to lord Yarborough, it certainly was never his intention to throw any sort of reflection on the conduct of that noble lord, but merely to vindicate the government from the imputation of having obtained those grounds from lord Yarborough under false pretences. The fact was, that the bargain was fair on both sides. If the surveyors differed so widely in their report, the one valuing it at 8,000l.l.Mr. Huskisson
385Speaker said, that when he gave notice of the motion which he brought forward that evening, he stated the substance of it as fully and explicitly as he could. He conceived that he would best do his duty by resting his proceeding upon precedent. If, in pursuing this course, he could be supposed to have acted uncandidly towards the members against whom his charges were directed, he begged to apologize to them. It arose from ignorance; for he could assure those hon. members, and he trusted the assertion would be believed, that he was anxious to bring the subject forward as fairly as possible. He was ready to adopt any mode of proceeding the house should recommend. It never was his intention, indeed it would be unfair, to send out a story to the country, without being prepared to prove the fact.385SpeakerMr. Madocks
 said, that he would be the last person to staff any thing to the house which he conceived to be improper.Mr. Madocks
381 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice some days ago, relating to corrupt practices of the Treasury with respect to the return of Members to Parliament. He observed, that he was fully aware that he had no claim on the attention of the house, but that which he derived from the very important nature of the subject that he felt it his duty to lay before them. The task he had undertaken was most ungracious and unpleasant; and nothing but a strong sense of public duty should have induced him to place himself in the situation of becoming the accuser of any man. It would not be necessary for him to trespass long upon the indulgence of the house. The substance of the motion he meant to propose lay in a very narrow compass. It consisted in a charge of corrupt practices against two of its members. He wished only to be permitted to make one prefatory observation, and it was this, that the facts that came to his knowledge were so dangerous, so prejudicial to the genuine spirit and principles of the constitution, that he would have justly merited to be stigmatized as a traitor to his country if he had declined to lay them before the house. Before he proceeded further, he would move that the several entries on the Journals relating to the proceedings against the two Shepherds, members of that house, be read. [The clerk here read the entry, dated the 13th of Feb. 1700, in which it was stated, that Samuel and Francis Shepherd, esqrs. members of that house, were ordered to attend in their places, on charges of corrupt practices respecting seats in parliament; also the entry dated Feb. 15, 1700, specifying, that corruption
381Mr. Madocks
399l.l. said, that in looking over the papers, he thought government must have been imposed on. He would not suppose they were capable of making such a disposition, as to give it the colour of a job, and yet from the whole of the valuation of the surveyors, it certainly bore something of that appearance. The house of Mrs. Aufrere, which was to be converted into an infirmary, was valued, with the small piece of land adjoining it, at 6,380399l.l.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that no distinct charge had been proposed against either of the two parties accused. He never knew any motion more contrary to justice in that house, or elsewhere. He was even surprized to hear it defended by an honourable member opposite (Mr. Whitbread) versed, as he was, in his favourite character of a public accuser in the British house of commons. Was a charge of personal corruption to be treated like a general charge against an administration? He was proud that he was no party to such resolutions as those lately published, stating a clause in the Act of Settlement as the existing law of the land, which never was law. [Here it was observed that it was four years before it was repealed.] Never till lately had it been seen in this country that bodies of people, not present during a judicial examination, had met to arraign the conduct of those who found it their duty to acquit one who was accused. He never till now heard of condemning the house of commons in this manner, for the exercise of their duty in an acquittal. He could not conceive how those who called themselves the great friends of the country could reconcile it to their feelings to degrade the character of the house of commons.Mr. Sturges Bourne
 explained, that he did not state that the attack on lord Castlereagh was part of an attack on all public men, whatever opinion he might entertain on that subject.Sir John Anstruther
382 said, that the form of proceeding proposed by the hon. member was one of the strangest he ever heard. The house would pause before it came to so extraordinary a resolution. Whether
382Sir J. Anstruther
 bore testimony to the long services and professional merits of col. Cordon, who was, he was confident, one of the last men in the empire, who would appropriate to himself any thing whatever that could interfere with the comfort of a British soldier. Whatever some gentlemen might think of the value of the situation of this meritorious officer, he begged it to be understood that it engrossed the whole of his time and his mind, and left him scarcely leisure to enjoy the ordinary comforts of life.Colonel Wood
l.viva voce400 in reply, agreed that the case was not made out, because the house
l.viva voce400Sir O. Mosley
l.l.l.394l.l.393 began by saying he anticipated some opposition to the
l.l.l.394l.l.393Sir Oswald Mosley
, noticing the observation, that attempts were made to throw a slur on the conduct of persons attending public meetings, said, that if the speeches attributed to particular persons were literally so, they went near to destroy what was the most desirable of all things in the present state of the country; he meant the unanimity of the public mind; and tended to more mischief than all their authors could retrieve, if they lived to sit in the house for a hundred years to come. He would give his feeble assistance to the prevention of real abuses, but not to those general attacks of abuses, never known as such till these pure days. These public meetings could only do mischief. He did not impute improper motives to individuals, but as to voting public thanks to a gentleman for his patriotism, he would as soon vote them to Mrs. Clarke for her virtue. (A laugh. Hear! hear!) He would not be deterred from his opinions by the sentiments of any set of people. The expressions he had heard imputed to an hon. gent. did him no credit as an Englishman. He hoped always to see respectable persons opposing government. They were the guardians of the public interest; but there was a power behind those benches (the opposition benches) greater than those benches themselves. That power looked not to parliament, but to a faction who would get rid of all parties, and represent themselves to the country as the concentrated essence of political purity. (Hear!) The hon. baronet opposite (sir Francis Burdett) with whom he was once in friendship, acted, he believed, honestly and conscientiously in public life, or else his nature must have changed since he knew him; but his political proceedings had his total dissent, and he trembled at the consequence of his enthusiastic conduct.Mr. Gooch
l.l.l.396 agreed with the right lion, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it would be beneath the dignity of the house to resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, and hear witnesses at their bar on such a subject as this. The principal object of his rising was, that a noble friend of his (lord Yarborough) had felt himself excessively hurt at the representations that had been made of his
l.l.l.396Lord Milton
l.R. brought down a Message from his majesty, which was read by the Speaker, as follows:l.R.Mr. Secretary Canning
409 rose and observed, that it was a matter of public regret that the female part of that gallant general's family were not provided for in such manner as could be wished; and requested to know whether any measures had been taken for that
409Lord Morpeth
 answered, that it was certainly the intention of government to make the kind of provision now alluded to by the noble lord; but on this being intimated to the female part of general Moore's family, they expressed a wish that any provision intended for them might be transferred to a male branch of their family; and it was therefore the intention of his majesty's ministers to recommend that the provision be made for the brother of sir John Moore, whom the rest of the family wished to receive it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
427 returned his thanks to the hon. gent. (Mr. Martin) for his very fair and candid manner of making his statement, and also for allowing the house sufficient time to take the subject fully into their consideration. He was free to confess, that at the time of the meeting of parliament, he had not formed a clear idea, or at all made up his mind respecting many points touched upon by the hon. gent. in his statement. The house would, therefore, not be surprized, that since the meeting of parliament his time was so much occupied with the other important duties of his office that he had not been able to gain new lights on the subject. He should now state, that he had the pleasure of agreeing with the hon. member in many of his points. He agreed also perfectly with what had been said by another hon. member (Mr. Thornton), that the greatest publicity should be given to every question connected with the expenditure of the country, and that the whole of the public accounts ought to be produced in such a form as to be intelligible to every ordinary comprehension. This was the plan which Mr. Pitt always pursued. He contrived to disentangle financial operations from any difficulty, or obscurity, and placed them in that clear and perspicuous light that every common understanding was capable of comprehending them. The observations which the hon. member had made respecting the Superannuation Fund appeared to him perfectly proper, and he entirely coincided with him in the opinion that every branch of the public expenditure ought to be submitted as expeditiously as possible to the consideration and judgment of that house. He agreed with him perfectly about the propriety of keeping the two heads of Navy Pensions and Superannuated Fund distinct. He also agreed with him that the most effectual mode ought to be adopted for carrying the proceeds of old stores to the credit of the public. He coincided with the hon. member in most of the provisions he had suggested, though he was of opinion that there would be much inconvenience, if not an utter impossibility, for parliament to make individual grants to all
427The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.430 was satisfied there could be but one sentiment in the house on such a subject. Whether the Resolutions proposed by the hon. and learned gentleman were carried through the house, in the form of Bills, however, during the present session, could not, he conceived be of great importance. The entering them on the Journals as Resolutions of the house would
l.l.l.l.l.430Mr. Rose
429l.428 coincided in every respect with the Resolutions proposed by his hon. friend, and gave his fullest concurrence to all the sentiments he had expressed in their support. He confessed, that looking to the situation and circumstances in which the Report was drawn up, it would have been more desirable that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had assumed the task, but not having felt that to be his duty, he was glad to find that he was not for that reason averse to the spirit of the regulations suggested, and was sure that he had done no more than justice to his hon. and learned friend, when he ascribed to him that fairness and candour with which he had introduced the measure. It was not from any expectation of great saving that he advocated this measure, or with any view of being able thereby to lessen the burdens of the taxes. As the whole sphere of the pensions, sinecures, and allowances did not amount to
429l.428Lord H. Petty
, in explanation, said, that he meant not to affect the sums appropriated to Officers' Widows, or any such charge. He had distinctly stated, in setting out, that he wished those to be laid aside in the consideration to which he was about to call the attention of the house.Mr. H. Martin
l.d.s.l.d.s.l.420Jobs,l.419l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.418bona fidel.l;l.l.417416l.415l.l.l.l.414primâ faciel.l.413412l.411410 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to call the attention of the house to the contents of the Third Report of the Committee on Public Offices. Though aware, that in bringing this subject under the consideration of parliament, he was bus barely doing a duty, yet, if the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes) who had taken so large a part in framing the Report in the Committee, had shown any disposition to take up the question, or if his majesty's ministers had, since the commencement of the present session, manifested any intention to bring forward any measures with a view to act upon the suggestions of the Report, he should never have thought of interfering with the subject. He should, therefore, be exempt from the odium of bringing forward the subject unseasonably, because the Resolutions which he meant to propose would have a tendency to assist in carrying the Resolutions of that house, into effect, and to comply with the recommendations given by his majesty in various Speeches from the throne. The house, in passing the Resolutions to which he adverted, and in appointing the Committee which had made this Report, had given a pledge to the public to prosecute a reform in the public expenditure, so far as was consistent with the public service; for he could not suppose, that the only use, for which Committees were appointed, was to make reports to lie on their table, without leading to any practical reform of the abuses which might be detected. The appointment of the Committee, therefore, was a pledge on the part of the house, that every reform would be promoted which could be effected without detriment to the public expenditure. It would be for the house, then, to see what the Report contained, and to judge how the suggestions it
l.d.s.l.d.s.l.420Jobs,l.419l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.418bona fidel.l;l.l.417416l.415l.l.l.l.414primâ faciel.l.413412l.411410Mr. Henry Martin
 rose to second the motion. He concurred most cordially in all the Resolutions proposed by the hon.Mr. H. Thornton
livre rouge432l. said he had never till lately understood that sums voted by parliament were for any other than public services. All others he conceived misapplications of the public money. The 95,000livre rouge432l.Mr. Peter Moore
l. was sorry that any thing should have occurred to induce gentlemen on the other side of the house to suppose that there was no necessity for carrying these Resolutions into effect during the present session. If one million could be saved on the whole expenditure of the country he should esteem it nothing; but if 100,000l.Mr. Biddulph
l.l.l.431 said, he did not rise to object to the Resolutions of his hon. and learned friend, but to claim to himself the right of going beyond them on a future occasion by other resolutions of his own. His hon. and learned friend had been much too tender upon the subject of the 4½ per cent. toward Inland duties, considering them as private property of the crown, and disposable at its pleasure. For his part, he was convinced this fund was public property, and ought not to have been used as it had been. It was excepted by name out of the royal revenue by the first act of queen Anne, and again by the acts on the accession of George the first and second; and on the accession of his present majesty it was not specified amongst the small hereditary revenues then given up, for a very good reason, because it had long been alienated from the crown. Through the whole of the last century to the few remaining years of it, this fund had been considered as public property. Lord Grenville, as chairman of a committee of that house, returned it amongst the public revenue of the country in 1786. Lord Harrowby (then Mr. Ryder), did the same in 1791. It was in 1797 that the Finance Committee, for the first time, raised a doubt, about it; and from that time Mr. Pitt's government, which till then had treated this fund as public property, immediately cut and carved it up in pensions to an enormous amount, amongst Mr. Pitt's private and political connections,
l.l.l.431Mr. Creevey
481 did not think it necessary to go at any length into a question, which had been already so much and so fully discussed. But he wished to know from the right hon. gent. who spoke last, whether he meant to arraign ministers for having sent an army into Spain too soon, or for not having sent it sooner; for from his speech it was difficult to collect which was the charge. But whatever course ministers took, the right hon. gent. was resolved to blame them. If, however, ministers had not sent an army, the gentlemen on the other side would have had much better ground for censure. If, instead of the exertion that had been made, no army had been sent, what would now have been the state of Spain? Had it not been for the diversion made by the British army, the French would have got possession of the south as well as of the north of Spain, and the cause would now have been indeed rendered hopeless. He blamed the gentlemen on the other side, for not pointing out any other course of proceeding, which either with a view to expedition or diversion, would have been better than that which had been actually adopted. With respect to the fleet at Ferrol, he denied that Spain had been prevented from admitting a British garrison into their arsenals, owing to any consideration connected with Copenhagen. Spain, perhaps had felt some jealousy with respect to the views of Britain, from the operations of the French, and of those who echoed French sentiments. But as Spain was unwilling to, accede to any proposition of this kind, it was impossible, under the circumstances, to press the subject further than the naked offer. He contended that it was impossible that general Moore should have acted contrary to his own views of what was proper. It was injurious to the memory of sir John Moore to say that he had acted merely upon the advice of Mr. Frere. He further said, that Mr. Frere had not impertinently obtruded his advice, for that advice had been solicited by sir John
481The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 spoke in favour of the motion. He did not see what ministers could have expected, to induce them to hazard such an army in such an expedition. They took credit to themselves for the diversion effected in favour of the Spanish cause. But looking at the subject in another view, it was no merit of their's that the army had escaped at all. He was of opinion that it would have been better to have retreated to Portugal; and he thought it impossible for any candid man to read the papers, and not to be convinced that sir John Moore had been induced to adopt the measures which led to the disastrous retreat, by the interference of Mr. Frere, whom he understood as speaking the sentiments of ministers.Mr. Bathurst
461460459à priore,458457456455 rose to reply, and observed, that if any complaint could be made by his majesty's ministers against the noble lord, it certainly could not be for the manner in which he had conducted the attack he had this night made, except indeed for the generality with which he had conducted that attack, accusing them of the want of all that ability, that foresight and vigour, for which his lordship's colleagues were so eminently conspicuous during the period they were in office. Certainly, his majesty's ministers stood in need rather of excuse than apology, on account of the extent and range of information which they had afforded for the purpose of the present investigation; but they considered that, upon a cause so grave and interesting, it was impossible they could stand right with the country, if the principles upon which they had acted were not fully explained: and if they did not put parliament and the country in possession of all the facts of the case; if they did not meet boldly all that ingenuity could suggest against them, and justify their conduct as far as the complicated nature of the transactions could admit of; transactions, upon which he could not but consider the attack just now made, the most futile, vain, and unfounded that ever was attempted. The noble lord appeared to him to have adopted, not only various, but some not very consistent grounds, upon which to form that attack; in the first place, he complained of their acting without that due and necessary information which would justify their proceedings; and he therefore contended that they were answerable for all the consequences that had followed, and that they ought rather to have waited for such knowledge and details of circumstances, as would have guided them successfully in their subsequent proceedings. But if ministers had waited in a state of inactivity until they had obtained that full knowledge, deemed so requisite, this would have afforded a well-grounded charge of the most culpable tardiness on their part; for how could anyone suppose they could act with any effect under such a system?—It was made another ground of attack, that ministers had not sent out any
461460459à priore,458457456455Lord Castlereagh
465"Spread the soft intercourse from soul to soul, "And wait a sigh from Indus to the pole."464463462 said that the noble lord had begun his speech by censuring that of his noble friend, as being too succinct and concise, and therefore but ill suited to a subject upon which the noble lord had satisfied the house, it was possible to be diffuse, erratic, and tedious. The noble lord, too, had condemned the speech of his noble friend for being so destitute of point. The speeches of the noble lord himself abounded so much in pith and point, that the charge acquired additional force in coming from him; the speeches of the noble lord at least generally abounded in something or other, and he would not take upon himself to decide whether they were right who thought that some-
465"Spread the soft intercourse from soul to soul, "And wait a sigh from Indus to the pole."464463462Mr. Ponsonby
477476475474473472471"To crowd an Iliad into one campaign."470469468467466 without meaning any disrespect to the noble lord who brought forward this question, said, he could not have thought it possible for the gentlemen opposite, provided with so numerous a band ready to undertake their cause, to have pitched on one who would have supported it on such objectionable grounds. The noble lord had, however, been followed in his arguments by the right hon. gent. who spoke last, who
477476475474473472471"To crowd an Iliad into one campaign."470469468467466Mr. Secretary Canning,
 rose, amidst loud cries of Question, and in a short but animated speech contended; 1st, that Mr. Frere had displayed such a want of temper and capacity, as to render him unfit for any diplomatic situation whatever; next, that the ministers had not acted fairly by sir J. Moore; and, in the next place, that M. Charmilly was a person unworthy of any confidence, from every thing that he had heard of him.—He wished principally to know, whether, as Mr. Frere was understood from report to be superseded by a noble marquis, he was to be appointed to any other situation, as report had also sent him to Constantinople. This, notwithstanding the defence made for him, he thought highly improper, as he had, in his mind, evinced himself disqualified for any situation. The conduct of M. Charmilly he equally reprobated, and painted in very disadvantageous colours, as having been first known as a revolutionist in St. Domingo; from thence coming to France, where he had attempted to raise an insurrection; after that, retiring to this country, where he was successively known as a coal merchant, a distiller, an usurious money lender, and a bankrupt. These were facts which he said, could be proved. He had afterwards, he understood, applied to ministers to be sent out to Spain, and was refused; yet he was since found employed by Mr. Frere, though said to be unknown to him, as a confidential agent to sir J. Moore.Mr. Whithread

adverted to the extraordinary sort of defence made by the noble lord, when he said, that the most extraordinary exertions had been made by the French. The noble lord might have calculated upon that, for many of his failures had been owing to the same cause. In remarking upon the conduct of ministers to sir J. Moore, he mentioned an observation of cardinal du Retz, who said that men might be placed in situations in which, turn how they would, they must Commit a fault; but that fortune never placed them in such situations, which were only the effects of their own errors. In such a situation had sir J. Moore been placed by the ministers.Lord H. Petty
480479478 although he was not quite so sanguine as the right hon. gent., did not yield to him in good wishes for the Spanish cause. The difference between them was not as to the principle of assisting Spain, but as to the mode of acting upon that principle. All the papers confirmed the opinions which had before been given from his side of the house. Mr. Frere had, at last, found a friend; and certainly no one ever stood more in need of one. But though Mr. Frere had found a friend, the noble lord (Castlereagh) had
480479478Mr. Tierney,
454453452451450449448447446"Do good by stealth, and blush'd to find it fame."445444443442441440 in rising to submit the motion of which he had given notice, observed, that, now the cabinet ministers had laid all the documents upon the table, on which they wished the house to decide upon their conduct, in the management of the most important trust that had ever been confided to any ministers, in direction of the most powerful resources which had at any period of our history been placed at the disposal of the government, for the purpose of assisting to promote the greatest object that had ever, in modern times, been presented for accomplishment, he conceived it to be his duty to call upon parliament for a distinct opinion upon the case: and though he should be short in what he had to say, yet he felt that he should stand in need of the whole, indulgence of the house. Whilst they had to lament that the efforts of the country had failed in the course of the campaign, they had, in the documents before the house, enough to satisfy them, that such failure was not attributable to those, to whom the immediate conduct of its operations had been confided. Upon these, that house had already conferred the highest honour which it was possible for a grateful country to bestow. To those, too, who fell in the contest, they had raised the proudest monument, the most lasting and enviable memorial, that a just sense of the most distinguished merit could dictate, or the most eminent services deserve. On the conduct of such persons, therefore, the house was not in this instance, to pronounce judgment. They were to decide upon those persons only whose incapacity and misconduct were the cause why even
454453452451450449448447446"Do good by stealth, and blush'd to find it fame."445444443442441440Earl Temple,
484 did not mean to give any effectual opposition to this motion, at the same time that he trusted he should be able to persuade the hon. member to withdraw his motion. A commission had been appointed to examine and report upon this subject, and had already produced three reports; the one of which, that related to the Accounts, had been drawn up with great ability and precision. The subject had been seriously taken up by his majesty's ministers, who had frequent communications with the war-office, relative to some new arrangement. He could assure the hon. member, that his majesty's ministers were equally with himself impressed with the necessity of a comprehensive and radical reform in the business
484The Secretary at War
 also bore testimony to the great difficulty of bringing up arrears, and producing regular accounts with minute detail. He denied that the system of those accounts was at all to be compared with the business of a merchant's counting-house. It was a mere business of audit at the war office, the minuter details being collected from a vast variety of other departments. The production of regular and minute accounts in the way proposed would cost the country infinitely more, in the addition of officers, than any real advantage to be attained was worth. It was therefore necessary either to increase the establishment, or diminish investigation. He should be happy to see the golden remedy promised by the hon. gent. who made the motion; but until it was explained and proved to him, he must be allowed to question its practicability.Mr. Bathurst
 said, it was an established maxim in all French books upon military affairs, never to enlist into the army prisoners of war, the subjects of a hostile state.General Tarleton
l.l.l.l.483 pursuant to notice, rose to move for the production of certain Accounts from the War-office. His object in moving for them was to put the house in possession of the state of accounts in the war-office. Since 1797, when the establishment was enlarged, with a view to bringing up the arrears, the number of clerks had been greatly increased, and yet the accounts were in greater confusion than ever. If the papers should be granted him, he would show, that this increase, instead of expe-
l.l.l.l.483Mr. Wardle,
 said, that it had fallen to his lot as a member of the Finance Committee, to examine many items of those accounts, both printed and written, without being able to arrive at any clear or comprehensive idea upon the subject. It was one of much complication and difficulty, and the committee of which he had the honour to be a member, finding that the Commissioners of Military Inquiry were occupied upon the same subject, deemed it advisable to await their report before they proceeded further on the topic.Mr. H. Thornton
l.l.;l.l.l 486 thought it rather hard
l.l.;l.l.l 486Mr. Peter Moore
 agreed in the necessity of adopting some new system for the simplification of army accounts, for the excellent system introduced by Mr. Burke would be wholly ineffectual at this time; for instance, a number of differences in the pay of the soldiery had been introduced depending on the local, or temporary prices of bread, or meat, at their respective quarters. Hence, it was not possible to go into a minute inquiry of the accounts, with any hope of an accurate result.Mr. Long
485 thought that if the business of the army accounts was the private concern of an individual, there would be no more difficulty in avoiding arrears, and producing regular balances, than in any mercantile house. With respect to the foreign corps, the hon. gent. took occa-
485Mr. Whitbread
 respecting the money advanced to M. Charmilly, for the enlistment of foreign soldiers, said, that he rendered a fair and satisfactory account; but he himself fully coincided in condemning the enlisting such soldiers into our service.Mr. Huskisson,
 said, that the only practicable mode for attaining accuracy in the accounts, was to simplify the mode of paying the soldiery. In investigating the cause of the arrears which had accrued, much would depend on considering the degree of zeal, integrity, diligence, and intelligence employed by the persons to whom the investigation was referred. During his own continuance in office, he was conscious that much of each was exerted; and still the desirable result of bringing up those arrears could not be accomplished. The real cause of accumulation in those years was the great increase of the public force. Gentlemen who complained of these arrears seemed to forget not only the great increase of the regular army, but the addition of the Army of Reserve, the Supplemental Militia, the Volunteers, and Foreign Corps. The grist had exceeded the powers of the mill; and to remedy that defect, there must be more mills and more millers. However, if the hon. gentleman who made the motion, could produce any effectual plan to remove the defect of which he complained, he would render a great public benefit. But he must allow him to doubt the practicability of such a plan, from what he himself had already experienced.Mr. Windham
 then rose, and said, that he could not express what he felt on this occasion better, nor more adequately, than by adopting the statement which had been made by his right hon. friend who had just left the house. He had nothing to add to that statement, and fully adopted every part of it. Whatever might be the practice on similar occasions, he could not, under the circumstances in which he was placed, sit in the house during the discussion of the question. He did not conceive that he was in the present stage of the business bound to give that explanation which he was confident he could, if it should be the pleasure of the house to enter into the investigation. To the house, therefore, he should leave it to determine, whether he should be called upon to give that explanation, which at present he was prepared to do, if it appeared to him to be called for, on this occasion. (The noble lord then made his bow, and withdrew).Lord Castlereagh
. This is of the nature of a double question, the latter part presuming an affirmative of the former; and therefore when it is said that the charge shall be taken into consideration upon a certain day, the hon. gent. takes it for granted that the charge shall be gone into. This would render the motion objectionable, but if so altered as has been suggested, I apprehend there can be no objection to the charge being entertained, and the first question upon an oral charge is certainly as to whether it shall be entertained or not. If it be determined that it should be entertained, it will then become a matter of justice that it should be put into so clear a shape, as that it may be delivered in writing to the members so charged; and in order that the house may be enabled to know what they are to discuss upon a future day.Mr. Secretary Canning
. If the house be to conform itself to this precedent as a standard, I hope they will adopt it strictly, for otherwise we shall fall into error. The right hon. gent. opposite says, he hopes that the charge will be given to the accused in a particular form; that may be very convenient to him and his colleagues, but it is not so in the precedent, for in it there appears to have been merely a statement of the names of places, where corruption and bribery had been alledged to have existed. There can be nothing less precise or particular than such a charge; and therefore I think it will be sufficient, to deliver in the present one in as general words as were used upon that former occasion.Lord Folkestone
508507 said, that on a question which so nearly concerned the character and hononr of the house, he was anxious to hear the opinions of persons of more experience than himself. The subject under consideration, was one of the most important that could engage the attention of parliament; and one in which the character of the house was more involved, he could not well imagine. As to what related to the point of order, he would undertake to shew, that in whatever point of view it was considered, the conduct of his hon. friend, as well on this as on a former occasion, was strictly parliamentary, and that it was supported by usage and precedent. He had examined into the proceedings on former occasions, and from a great variety of precedents from the earliest period of the constitution to the present time, he could shew that the house had always received the assertion of a member in his place, as information sufficient to exercise its inquisitorial functions. In exercising these inquisitorial functions, in the better times of our ancestors, it was not the practice when a member preferred charges, to retort upon him, to question his motives, and the authenticity of the facts into which he proposed to inquire. Formerly they decided that even common fame was a sufficient ground for investigation. By this he did not mean mere rumour in the streets, but that general kind of report and understanding which came within every man's knowledge and belief. He should like to see the man who would stand up in that house, place his hand upon his heart, and say, upon his honour, that he did not believe that such abuses existed, as it was the object of his hon. friend's motion to investigate. He did not believe there would be one found who would stake his veracity and character upon such a point. Why was there such a reluctance to entertain this question? Was it from the dread of French principles? Why, this was the very way to avoid the danger of such principles, and the dreadful consequences that flowed from them. Did any man deny that the fact charged did not exist? If there did, he should be glad to listen to his argu-
508507Sir F. Burdett
517 complained of the countenance given by the hon. gent. to the language held out of doors, arraigning the judgment of the house delivered after deliberate and painful investigation. From this superstructure it was, that he argued for the necessity of Reform. As one of that majority he would ask the hon. gent. why, because he gave no credit to a woman of Mrs. Clarke's character, he was to be accused of corruption, and such an assumption raised upon the case? The hon. gent. had told them, he approved of every sentiment expressed at one of those Meetings so much spoken of. One of the sentiments supported by the hon. baronet and his friends was, that there should be no placeman or pensioner in the house. How happened it then, that the hon. gent. ap-
517Mr. Bathurst
520519 said he could remember no debate in which so many speeches had been thrown away. Ministers being accused of having procured the election of an individual by improper influence, and of dismissing or causing that individual to vacate his seat, because he refused to vote contrary to the dictates of his conscience; the question was whether or not an inquiry should be made into the circumstances, and in answer to it they had been about five hours debating on the proceeding that had taken place out of that house at public meetings, and discussing the propriety of attempting a Parliamentary Reform. Such a change as they proposed endeavouring to effect, he thought no trifling question. It would be a change most awful, most tremendous in the present state of the world, he should therefore be silent on that subject till some measure was proposed to that effect which he felt called upon by his duty to support. It was impossible for him to vote that the whole should be passed over without farther notice. He did not know that the facts stated were correct, but he did know that the individual whose name had been mentioned was a member of that house, and that he did vacate his seat about the time stated: whether or not it was in consequence of an intimation to that effect from the Treasury, he could not take upon himself to state. Therefore, when an hon. member brought such a subject forward, and stated it to be in his power to prove the truth of such allegations, he certainly could not oppose the inquiry.—With respect to the mode of procuring Seats in that house, it certainly was highly improper; but knowing how long such practices had been carried on, knowing how many had sat there in every parliament since the Revolution through similar influence, he could not think it would be acting like a man of honour were he to take advantage of a political adversary under such circumstances. There existed no man on the face of the earth who had so
520519Mr. Ponsonby
521 did not agree with the hon. gent. who had just sat down. He had stated two reasons why they should not proceed against the ministers charged with corruption: The first, because a Bill had been brought into the house which might prevent the so frequent recurrence of such abuses; the other, because the facts were so notorious that every one knew of them. He wished to know how long the hon. gent. who spoke last, as well as the right hon. gent. opposite, had thought so favourably of that Bill. Whatever might be the ultimate success of that bill, he thought it no argument against inquiring into the conduct of those accused, nor did he think the enormity of such practices diminished by their notoriety. He remembered with what a jeer of denial the statements he had made of a similar nature had been greeted. They did not deny that such abuses existed in words, but they did by signs, which every body understood; but now gentlemen opposed the measure, because they were ignorant how far its effects might extend. When he moved that a Committee should be appointed for the purpose of making a general inquiry into Abuses, it was opposed because it was too general. Had specific charges been brought, it was stated no opposition would have been made; but now specific charges were brought forward, it should appear they were too specific, and a general measure was to be preferred. Those who then said, "bring forward specific charges; let us see who among us is unworthy a seat in this house," now unblushingly stood forward to prevent such an inquiry being instituted, and to screen those charged with corruption. If their recent proceedings had excited the indignation of the country, he did not think their acting thus would tend to allay the ferment excited in the minds of the people. They ought to consider the question as it stood by itself, and pronounce aye or no accordingly, as the evidence adduced might preponderate for or against the persons accused.—The noble lord then entered into the case at large, and concluded by stating, that under all the circumstances, though he knew a general election had taken place since those who were accused had been in
521Lord Folkestone
525524 begged leave to offer a few observations, even at that late hour of the night, although he had but little to add to the arguments which had already been urged against the motion of the hon. gent. He could not well refrain from reminding the house that the motion at present before them was acknowledged to be a first step towards Parliamentary Reform; and that the means proposed for enabling the house to take that step, were impracticable. Against such a measure the house had now to make a stand—a determined stand against the encroachments of the factious. The time was now come, when not only a great majority of that house, but also all the reflecting and sound part of the country, would pronounce an opinion, that in resisting the motion of the hon. gent. they acted a part not less acceptable to the feelings of the people, than it was conducive to the safety of the state. The question before the house should not be considered on narrow grounds, or on its own particular and separate merits. It was the duty of parliament to view it in all its bearings, and while they attended to the particular case, not to overlook its general consequences; what these consequences might be, it was no difficult matter to conjecture, when due attention was paid to the nature of the Resolutions which had been passed elsewhere, and to the names that were affixed to those Resolutions. The house were told to take care how they acted in contradiction to the sense of the people. But how and where was the sense to be ascertained? Was it in the commons house of parliament, or in those meetings which were held to canvass the conduct of that house? Were the house to listen only to those among them who came reeking from those meetings, and who would inculcate on the house the lessons which they received and brought from such a school? Should we not look to the motives from which such persons acted, as well as to the principles they thought proper to profess, and in taking this view of the nature and tendency
525524Mr. Secretary Canning
 protested against the doctrine of that night, which posterity would reprobate. When it should hear that a house of commons was found so debased as to acknowledge the existence of corruption in its formation, and justify the existence of it. (Cries of withdraw, withdraw, and violent uproar). It was at least consistent for those, said the hon. member, to drown, if possible, the discussion of men who opposed them. Convinced, as they must be, that such conduct as they pursued that night, could neither bear inquiry, argument, or the touchstone of common integrity.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that though an oral charge was perfectly regular, yet it was necessary to have the allegations recorded; and called on Mr. Madocks to furnish the Clerk with a copy of his motion.—This being done, and the Charge, being an epitome of the accuser's speech, read by the Clerk, the Speaker noticed that the motion contained two distinct points; first, a charge of trafficking in the seats of that house; and second of influencing the vote of its members. He then explained the manner in which the question would be put, and informed the last speaker of the mode in which he could introduce his Amendment.The Speaker
 stated that it would be convenient for the house to know whether it was the intention of the hon. mover to regulate his future proceedings by the precedent in the case of Mr. Samuel Shepherd. He wished that the two Resolutions subsequent to the information being given by a member in his place, should be read.—The two Resolutions were accordingly read:—the first, where a reference was made to the protest of Mr. Shepherd, as to his innocence, and the next as to the particular boroughs, viz. Newport and Wootton Basset, where he had been guilty of the corrupt practices, and the course pursued by the house in consequence.—From this precedent it did appear, resumed the Speaker, that after the member made the information to the house, a motion was made to hear the accused at the bar, previous to which hearing the particulars of the charge were ordered to be given to them in writing; and, lastly, that a particular day should be fixed.The Speaker
 rose, amidst a tumultuous call of question, question! His lordship expressed great surprize at the doctrines he had heard delivered on the present question. One right hon. gent. (Mr. Ponsonby) had declared, he could not listen to the charge, because the practice on which it was founded had long been as open and broad as the sun at noon-day. For his own part, if he understood the constitution; if he understood his duty as a member of that house, if he wished for the prosperity and tranquillity of the country, he should suppose that such a conviction in the mind of the right hon. gent. who made it would have been a very strong reason for his voting in favour of the motion. With respect to the speech of the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, he had with pain heard and observed that it seemed to cast such indulgence on every species of corruption, that if he had not himself heard he could not have believed. There seemed to be a doubt between that right hon. gent. and his majesty's ministers whether there was any thing whatever to correct in the present system of parliamentary representation. If the house should unfortunately determine to overlook the present charge, he trembled for its dignity and character having any longer a place in the estimation of the people.Lord Archibald Hamilton
518 said, his principal reason for supporting Parliamentary Reform upon old constitutional principles was, as he had stated at a late popular meeting, in order to set ministers free from those discussions, which occupied too much of their time, and rendered them unable to attend to the important business of their several departments, the neglect of which
518Lord Cochrane
512511510 expressed his wish that the charge against Mr. Perceval should be separated from that preferred against lord Castlereagh; and observed, that in the case of Shepherd, the charge had been given in writing, and he hoped the hon. gent. would give in his charge in this way, that gentlemen might clearly understand upon what they were to vote. He thought this question had, strictly speaking, nothing to do with Parliamentary Reform, for the offence was one which might be committed under any circumstances. The charge against Mr. Perceval and Mr. Wellesley was so vague, that he should be ashamed to receive it in its present shape. But as to the charge against lord Castlereagh, that certainly deserved attention, both from its being more distinctly laid, and from the circumstance that 167 members of that house had already pronounced that noble lord to have been guilty of a bleach of its privileges.—With regard to Parliamentary Reform, Mr. T. said, that he was as warmly attached to that measure as he had ever been. It was one of the greatest advantages of the constitution, that when things went wrong the house had the power of making them better. He, however, was perfectly aware of the inconvenience of the time which had been chosen to bring forward the question; chiefly because it did not appear to him that either the sense of the country or of Parliament was decidedly in its favour. The question had been raised merely by the business of the Duke of York; and he believed that there were many who supported the cry for Parliamentary Reform who had no specific view of the subject which they themselves desired to attain—(Hear, hear!) What many, he believed, understood by Parliamentary Reform was a relief from the weight of the taxes. He must have little associated with the various classes of society in this country, who was not convinced of the deep-rooted complaints which were called forth by the burthens of the taxes, and the manner in which they were collected. If any one would for a moment consider the weight of all the other taxes, added to that of the Income Tax, he would not be surprised that numbers were disposed to listen to any proposal which premised an alleviation of that burthen. There was no disposition any where for overturning the establishments of the constitution; but the people readily listened to those who from good or bad motives proposed Reform, because
512511510Mr. Tierney
 explained. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer was privy to the second part of the charge, he had no wish to exclude him from his Amendment.Mr. Tierney
497 suggested the propriety of having the Paper, from which the honourable member had read the information he communicated to the house, laid upon the table, in order that gentlemen might have an opportunity of ascertaining what the
497Mr. Tierney
505 had never risen in that house under more difficulty, because both his wishes and his duty inclined him to adopt a different line of conduct. His wishes prompted him to put an end to this question at once; but a sense of duty made him feel that something was due on such an occasion to the dignity of that house, to the nature of the charge, and to the character of parliament. He agreed with the noble lord behind him (lord Milton), that the more eligible course would be to refer the charge to a committee above stairs. The charge was of such a nature, that if the hon. member had brought it forward lightly or upon weak grounds, or should fail in substantiating it, much injury must be the consequence to the public. He did not himself believe that the hon. member would have brought forward this charge without having good grounds for it. The house was placed in an embarrassed situation by this charge, which consisted of two parts; the first was that of undue influence used to bias the votes of members of that house; the second, that corrupt means had been employed to procure the return of members to parliament. The charge he considered a grave one, and if the house should pass it over without ne-
505Mr. Curwen
 stated, that on a former occasion, when he opposed himself to the general motion of a noble lord (Folkestone), because it did not state some definite grounds, he had then the honour of being cheered by his majesty's ministers and their adherents. Their objection then was,—your motion is too wide-wasting, too indefinite, and therefore we oppose it; but give us something in a tangible shape and we will withdraw our resistance? Here then was something in a tangible shape; here was specific corruption offered to be proved against two members of their body, in confidential situations under the crown. How has it been received? Shame to say, its existence has not only been admitted from time immemorial, but even justified from both sides of the house. Let the house cautiously reflect how it sends abroad such principles, sanctioned by their decision. In such an attempt to vindicate the character of the two rt. hon. gentlemen, they will fail to retrieve them, whilst they sacrifice to eternity the honour, the credit, and the character of the house of commons.Mr. Peter Moore
 supported the motion, which in his conception related in no way to Parliamentary Reform. He never adopted the opinion that all public men were corrupt; but whether the assertion were true or false, the best way of deciding it was by investigation.Mr. Biddulph
516515514513 expressed his astonishment to hear the measure of Parliamentary Reform objected to by his right hon. friend in point of time; the more so as that objection was grounded upon the same arguments which his right hon. friend, he, and others, had on former occasions to encounter from the other side of the house. With regard to the public meetings, from which declarations of opinion had been published upon the subject of the decision of the house, relative to the conduct of the Duke of York, he maintained the right of the people to express their opinion upon any public question, asserting that there were numbers among the public who were as competent to form a correct opinion upon that or any other question, as the members of that house. To think otherwise on the part of the house, he would consider as an indication of arrogance and folly. The people had the whole of the evidence before them with respect to the transaction alluded to, and upon that evidence they thought proper to come to a conclusion directly contrary to that of the house. Was
516515514513Mr. Whitbread
 complained that the right hon. gentleman's speech was a tissue of misrepresentations of what he had said. He had never said the house of commons decided from corrupt motives, but persons out of doors said so, and not that he agreed in opinion with them.Mr. Whitbread
498 said, he apprehended it would not have been consistent with the course of proceedings, had his hon. friend given in any written charge, and that therefore this being an oral charge, he could have no objection to leave out of the motion, now to be made, the naming any specific day, when it should be heard at the bar. We all knew, that in the late case relative to the Duke of York, the charge was orally made, and yet the house appointed a committee to inquire into the charge. As to the statement of his right hon. friend near him, (Mr. Tierney) that many of the members did not understand the nature of the charge, he had to observe, that it was always presumed that all members were in the house, and that the house collectively speaking was that body present at the time the charge was made, with the exception, that the individual charged must be necessarily present, particularly where an oral charge was made.
498Mr. Whitbread
496495494 then rose, and said that he had waited for the decision of gentlemen upon the point of order, as he felt himself na-
496495494The Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Perceval)
501500499 said he was decidedly adverse to the motion, and whether he referred to the notice upon which it was founded, or the opinions of the hon. gent. who brought it forward, as expressed in the Resolutions which he seconded at the Crown and Anchor, he could only consider it as the first step to Parliamentary Reform. Mr. Cartwright was not ashamed to acknowledge himself one of those, far too much attached to the constitution as it
501500499Mr. Cartwright
 thought that those who were so loud in the condemnation of corruption did not sufficiently distinguish between corruption, properly so called, and the influence which property would always have in every well regulated society. The influence of property was one which ought to prevail as well as that of ability. He would always be glad to have some eminent lawyers in the house; to see gentlemen of the army and navy there. The landed interest ought unquestionably to have its full weight, but he saw no reason why those who had their fortunes in chattels or money should be excluded. He saw no reason why some of the Directors of the East India Company should not possess seats in that house, since they had important interests to defend. (Hear, hear! in one quarter, and a laugh in another). There never was a question of importance discussed in that house, without a proof that the interests affected by it had some persons to represent them.—Under this system the country, in spite of all the wars in which it had been engaged, had flourished. Every town had been improved: new harbours had been constructed; and manufactures and trade en-creased together. These were blessings not to be rashly risked for any fanciful schemes of reform (Hear, hear! from Mr. Windham). At the same time, where corruption was proved to exist, he would concur in adopting the proper means to check it; always, however, distinguishing between corruption, and that just and proper influence which ought to be inseparable from property.Mr. Davies Giddy
 then begged leave to move, "That the matter of the Charge be heard at the bar of the house."—Mr. Whitbread and sir F. Burdett both rose to second the motion.—Upon the motion being put from the Chair,Mr. Madocks
 then explicitly moved, That the said Charge against the right hon. Spencer Perceval and lord viscount Castlereagh should be heard at the bar on Monday next.Mr. Madocks
493492l.l.l.l.491l.l.l.490489488487 began by moving that the Resolution of that house on the 10th Dec. 1779; be then read; it was read accordingly, and stated in substance, that it is "highly criminal for any minister or ministers, or any other servant of the crown in Great Britain, directly or indirectly, to make use of the power of his office, in order to influence the election of members of parliament, and that an attempt to exercise that influence was an attack upon the dignity, the honour, and the independence of parliament, an infringement of the rights and the liberties of the people, and an attempt to sap the basis of our free and happy constitution." Mr. Madocks next moved the Resolution of that house on the 25th April,
493492l.l.l.l.491l.l.l.490489488487Mr. Madocks
—225Majority against Inquiry
—225Majority against Inquiry85Ayes
85Ayes310Noes
310Noes
—225Majority against Inquiry
—225Majority against Inquiry85Ayes
85Ayes310Noes
310Noes'Ingrediturque solo, et caput inter nubile condit.'527 made a brief reply, defended the consistency of his public life and the purity of his motives. He felt impelled to the course by the sense of public duty, from which, not even the conduct of that night should succeed in
—225Majority against Inquiry
—225Majority against Inquiry85Ayes
85Ayes310Noes
310Noes
—225Majority against Inquiry
—225Majority against Inquiry85Ayes
85Ayes310Noes
310Noes'Ingrediturque solo, et caput inter nubile condit.'527Mr. Madocks
 thought the house bound to reflect upon the alledged interference of lord Castlereagh, with the vote of Mr. Dick upon a judicial question of high importance. [No, No, from the ministerial benches]. If the fact be not so, why not inquire? [No, No, from the same quarter]. I repeat the words—If the fact be not so, why not inquire? and if with the question thus put to you, you refuse to inquire, the country will not fail to form its own decision.Mr. W. Smith
523 declared he never rose to speak with more pain and surprise. He thought the house ought to come to a resolution in favour of the motion for the sake of its own honour and dignity. There never was a time when under any state of things, either within or without the house, they ought to be more careful of observing the opinion of the people.—He was as much disposed as any man, not only to vindicate the character of the persons accused, but even to acknowledge the zeal and assiduity exerted
523Mr. Wilberforce
522 said, the abuses now so heavily complained of, had existed unnoticed in those times which had been called the best. They ought not with a rash and violent hand attempt to eradicate them till the whole of the circumstances had been maturely considered. For by so doing, we might with, or instead of, the evil, tear up that which was infinitely more valuable to us than any thing we could possibly gain by such a procedure The elements of the air we breathe contain particles which we know to be of a poisonous nature, but were we to attempt taking those away, we should probably take with them that which was essential to our existence. So if we attempted to reform and alter the representation from what it ever had been since the formation of our constitution, we might deprive our constitution by so doing of all that was good and valuable. Attempting to remove a blemish, we might tear the garment and render it worthless. Were all the great men of former times, whose names we had been accustomed to venerate, to be set down as corrupt men by the adoption of such a plan? He would not have that constitution, by which the country had risen to what it was, altered in any respect whatever. That corruption did exist was undeniable, corruption existed from top to bottom, but he believed more would be found at the bottom than at the top. The lower they went the worse they would find it. What man, however prudent and frugal in the administration of his own private affairs, could prevent the existence of abuses on his own premises? Abuses would exist in his kitchen, in his stable, or in his garden, which he could not see nor prevent. The motion went to charge government, not with abuses countenanced by them, but with those which they could not prevent, and seeking a reform in parliament they would go near to overturn the government. He did not know whether the taxes, great as they were, bore a greater proportion to the revenue of the country than formerly. If luxury did not increase with the taxes, he did not think their weight would be found so excessively great. Mr. Quintin Dick had not been forced to vacate his seat as his noble friend, had incorrectly
522Mr. Windham
 observed, that, it was the duty of every man to make a stand now, in support of the dignity of that house, and of the happiness of the people. He did not wish to see every public man, who was at present, or might at any time be employed in the administration of government, vilified and calumniated, and themselves thus rendered incapable of serving their country; therefore he should object to the motion. Would the hon. member stop here? would he be satisfied with his present victims? Certainly not: more, many more, would be brought to be filtered through the vessel of Reform. He did not wish to see a new order of things. He did not wish to see the valuable time of that house taken up in censorial proceedings against its own members, instead of being engaged in forwarding the public business. He had heard much of the sense of the people. No man valued the approbation of the people more than he did, or regretted their disapprobation more; but this was a case in which he could not suffer himself to be influenced by any thing but his own impressions. He should give the motion his decided negative.Sir Charles Morgan
504503 rose to oppose the motion, not from any partiality to the individuals who were the objects of it, but from a partiality to the constitution of the country, because those individuals formed a part of the executive government under this constitution. If this proceeding should be adopted against the present government, a similar proceeding might be directed against any other government. The hon. gent. who brought forward this motion had stated that he was no party-man. Did the hon. member mean by that declaration, that he did not agree in the opinions of the great body of those who sat on the same side of the house with him? If he did, he had stated a great truth. But there was another party, to which he did not know whether the hon. member belonged; nor should he be solicitous to inquire, if the motion of the hon. gent. was calculated to promote the views of that party. The object of that party was to level every thing that was above themselves. Being unable to level up, they were determined to level down. Though he did pot say the hon. member belonged to that party, he must say, that his motion was calculated to promote the views of that party. The hon. member had, however, acted with candour; because though he said he should begin with
504503Sir John Anstruther
 observed, that if the last speaker was even correct in the motives he attributed to the hon. gent. who brought forward the present motion, he must assure him that if such motives were justified, those who supported the motion were actuated by inducements wholly different. For instance, if he thought that the present motion tended to the success of the question of Parliamentary Reform, he would have been the first to oppose it; because he was free to say, that from its adoption he could not foresee any practical benefit. He still was impressed with the necessity of correcting public abuses, and none more imperatively called for correction, as none were more dangerous, than palpable and trident interferences of the king's ministers in obtaining the return of members to that house. In giving such an opinion, and whilst he voted for the motion in part, he still, in whatever way it was decided, should not think one jot the worse of either of the right hon. gentlemen accused, or that they were in any degree more criminal than all former governments. The evil ought, however, to cease, and any prospective remedy should have his support. As leading to that object he was anxious to refer the consideration of this charge either to a Parliamentary Commission or to a Select Committee, convinced that the greatest injury had evinced itself by giving a parliamentary strength to a government which did not possess the confidence of the people. The noble lord concluded by moving as an Amendment, That in place of the words "at the bar," the said Charge be referred to a Select Committee.Lord Milton
 laid before the house, a copy of the Convention between the king of England and his Swedish majesty, concluded on the 1st of March, 1808. He said, this Convention had been alluded to in his majesty's speech on the opening of the session, and would have been sooner laid before the house, but that it was necessary to accompany it by some communication which, under the existing state of circumstances between both nations, it was necessary to postpone. He had now to state, that no part of the stipulated subsidy had been paid to Sweden beyond the first three months' instalment, nor would it be requisite to propose any vote more in the budget of this day. The existing state of circumstances between both countries was such as did not enable him to make any definite communication to the house at this time; but it was necessary to lay the paper before the house as a ground for the vote to be proposed.Mr. Secretary Cunning
 apprehended, the hon. gent, would not wish to postpone the Budget on this account. By law, these accounts were to be delivered by the 25th of March in every year, before which time it was impossible, on account of the multiplicity of papers to be laid on the table, to prepare them; and it was not till lately that the Budget was opened so late as the 12th of May. This business used formerly to take place before Christmas, and it would always in such a case, be utterly impossible to get the accounts printed before the opening of the Budget.Mr. Huskisson
 doubted this impossibility, since Irish accounts could be always ready at an earlier period. It was of no consequence to lay them before the house, if they were taken away for so long a time to be printed; and he thought that either they should not be taken away for this purpose, or that duplicates of them should be provided to lie upon the table, for the use of members.Sir John Newport
 informed the hon. member, that pursuant to an order of the house, duplicates were now always laid upon the table; and as to the length of time lost in printing, the hon. member would recollect that of all printing, figure printing was the most tedious and intricate.The Speaker
 asked if the only advantage to be derived from laying these Annual Accounts on the table, was their consideration on this particular day? and contended that their production at any period of the session, would operate as a sufficient check, although they might not be produced previous to the opening of the Budget.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 bore testimony to the difficulty of getting the Accounts ready even by the 25th of March.Mr. Rose
 said, that last session he wished to look at these accounts, and was informed that they were gone to the printer's, and that he could not see them. Duplicates of the Irish Accounts, he knew, had not been laid upon the table, and that led him to suppose, that the same was then the case with respect to the Accounts of this country.Mr. Parnell
l.537l.536l535d.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.d.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.sl.d.s.l.d.s.l.534d.s.l,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.533l.1080Lone Annuities
1080Lone Annuities00603 per Cents
00603 per Cents00£·604 per Cents
00£·604 per Cents
1080Lone Annuities
1080Lone Annuities00603 per Cents
00603 per Cents00£·604 per Cents
00£·604 per Centsl.l.130,028Surplus Ways and Means
130,028Surplus Ways and Means47,588,024Supplies
47,588,024Supplies47,718,052
47,718,05211,000,000Loan
11,000,000Loan150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal
150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit
3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.
1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.
3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery19,000,000War Taxes
19,000,000War Taxes2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 1808
2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 18084,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 1810
4,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 18103,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.
3,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
£.WAYS AND MEANS.
130,028Surplus Ways and Means
130,028Surplus Ways and Means47,588,024Supplies
47,588,024Supplies47,718,052
47,718,05211,000,000Loan
11,000,000Loan150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal
150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit
3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.
1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.
3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery19,000,000War Taxes
19,000,000War Taxes2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 1808
2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 18084,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 1810
4,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 18103,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.
3,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
£.WAYS AND MEANS.47,588,024.On account of England
47,588,024.On account of England6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List
6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List53,861,990Total Supplies
53,861,990Total Supplies5 per cents. 1797, 60,867
5 per cents. 1797, 60,867Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,000
Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,0001,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211
1,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211England's Separate Charges.
England's Separate Charges.
47,588,024.On account of England
47,588,024.On account of England6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List
6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List53,861,990Total Supplies
53,861,990Total Supplies5 per cents. 1797, 60,867
5 per cents. 1797, 60,867Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,000
Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,0001,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211
1,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211England's Separate Charges.
England's Separate Charges.53251,934,911Total Joint Charge
51,934,911Total Joint Charge400,000Sicilian Subsidy
400,000Sicilian Subsidy300,000Swedish Subsidy
300,000Swedish Subsidy300,000Ireland
300,000Ireland3,300,0003,000,000England
3,300,0003,000,000EnglandVote of Credit,
Vote of Credit,726,249Ireland
726,249Ireland1,900,0001,173,751England
1,900,0001,173,751EnglandMiscellaneous,
Miscellaneous,627,876Ireland
627,876Ireland5,903,1745,275,298England
5,903,1745,275,298EnglandOrdnance,
Ordnance,21,144,770Army
21,144,770Army18,986,867Navy
18,986,867Navy£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.
51,934,911Total Joint Charge
51,934,911Total Joint Charge400,000Sicilian Subsidy
400,000Sicilian Subsidy300,000Swedish Subsidy
300,000Swedish Subsidy300,000Ireland
300,000Ireland3,300,0003,000,000England
3,300,0003,000,000EnglandVote of Credit,
Vote of Credit,726,249Ireland
726,249Ireland1,900,0001,173,751England
1,900,0001,173,751EnglandMiscellaneous,
Miscellaneous,627,876Ireland
627,876Ireland5,903,1745,275,298England
5,903,1745,275,298EnglandOrdnance,
Ordnance,21,144,770Army
21,144,770Army18,986,867Navy
18,986,867Navy£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.l. rose, pursuant to notice, to submit to the committee a statement of the Ways and Means of the year. In proceeding to propose the resolution with which he meant to conclude, for ratifying the contract, made that morning by the Treasury, for a Loan of 14,600,000l.537l.536l535d.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.d.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.sl.d.s.l.d.s.l.534d.s.l,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.533l.1080Lone Annuities
1080Lone Annuities00603 per Cents
00603 per Cents00£·604 per Cents
00£·604 per Cents
1080Lone Annuities
1080Lone Annuities00603 per Cents
00603 per Cents00£·604 per Cents
00£·604 per Centsl.l.130,028Surplus Ways and Means
130,028Surplus Ways and Means47,588,024Supplies
47,588,024Supplies47,718,052
47,718,05211,000,000Loan
11,000,000Loan150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal
150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit
3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.
1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.
3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery19,000,000War Taxes
19,000,000War Taxes2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 1808
2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 18084,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 1810
4,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 18103,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.
3,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
£.WAYS AND MEANS.
130,028Surplus Ways and Means
130,028Surplus Ways and Means47,588,024Supplies
47,588,024Supplies47,718,052
47,718,05211,000,000Loan
11,000,000Loan150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal
150,000Repayment of Sum advanced to Portugal3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit
3,000,000Exchequer Bills on Vote of Credit1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.
1,355,900l.Excess of ditto, voted in the present Session, after reserving sufficient to pay off 4,644,100l.3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.
3,154,800l.Excess of Exchequer Bills, 49 Geo. 3, cap. 21. after reserving sufficient to pay off 7,345,200l.300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery19,000,000War Taxes
19,000,000War Taxes2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 1808
2,757,352Surplus Ways and Means, 18084,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 1810
4,000,000Estimated Surplus Consolidated Fund, to April 5, 18103,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.
3,600,000Duty on Malt, Pensions, &c.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
£.WAYS AND MEANS.47,588,024.On account of England
47,588,024.On account of England6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List
6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List53,861,990Total Supplies
53,861,990Total Supplies5 per cents. 1797, 60,867
5 per cents. 1797, 60,867Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,000
Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,0001,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211
1,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211England's Separate Charges.
England's Separate Charges.
47,588,024.On account of England
47,588,024.On account of England6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List
6,273,966Deduct Ireland's proportion of Supply and Civil List53,861,990Total Supplies
53,861,990Total Supplies5 per cents. 1797, 60,867
5 per cents. 1797, 60,867Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,000
Int. on Exch. Bills 1,500,0001,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211
1,927,078Def. Malt Duty, 1807, 366,211England's Separate Charges.
England's Separate Charges.53251,934,911Total Joint Charge
51,934,911Total Joint Charge400,000Sicilian Subsidy
400,000Sicilian Subsidy300,000Swedish Subsidy
300,000Swedish Subsidy300,000Ireland
300,000Ireland3,300,0003,000,000England
3,300,0003,000,000EnglandVote of Credit,
Vote of Credit,726,249Ireland
726,249Ireland1,900,0001,173,751England
1,900,0001,173,751EnglandMiscellaneous,
Miscellaneous,627,876Ireland
627,876Ireland5,903,1745,275,298England
5,903,1745,275,298EnglandOrdnance,
Ordnance,21,144,770Army
21,144,770Army18,986,867Navy
18,986,867Navy£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.
51,934,911Total Joint Charge
51,934,911Total Joint Charge400,000Sicilian Subsidy
400,000Sicilian Subsidy300,000Swedish Subsidy
300,000Swedish Subsidy300,000Ireland
300,000Ireland3,300,0003,000,000England
3,300,0003,000,000EnglandVote of Credit,
Vote of Credit,726,249Ireland
726,249Ireland1,900,0001,173,751England
1,900,0001,173,751EnglandMiscellaneous,
Miscellaneous,627,876Ireland
627,876Ireland5,903,1745,275,298England
5,903,1745,275,298EnglandOrdnance,
Ordnance,21,144,770Army
21,144,770Army18,986,867Navy
18,986,867Navy£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether any or what portion of the war taxes was to be saddled with the charges of the loan.Mr. N. Vansittart
 replied, that the whole of the charges were to be discharged from the war taxes, and particularly that part of them which came under the head of Excise.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
540539538 wished to offer a few observations on one part of the right hon. gentleman's statement, and particularly that which related to the bills drawn by the Austrian government. The propriety of that step would depend on the previous relations subsisting between the two countries, an explanation of which, he presumed, his majesty's ministers would feel it their duty to offer to the house before parliament rose. That explanation would determine whether that most extraordinary step, as he must characterize it, was to be attributed to his majesty's ministers, or the Austrian government. It would be
540539538Lord H Petty
542541 although he agreed with many of the remarks of the noble lord, and particularly with that which stated that the particular circumstances were to be considered in the granting of subsidies to continental powers, had yet a few observations to make on what fell from him in the early part of his speech. As to the policy of subsidising foreign powers it was impossible to lay down any general rule on this subject. In any assistance that we might deem it adviseable to afford foreign powers, the propriety as well as the extent of that assistance must depend on the value of the effort to be made, and the particular circumstances of the country at the time it was solicited. With respect to the Treaty with Sweden, which the noble lord had seized on as the ground for his arguments, he had to state, that it was owing to no instigation of this country, that she had undertaken a war far above her strength, and which had been so disastrous in its consequences. If this country had never, for many years, inculcated such a line of conduct, so it was particularly true in the late struggle, when it was perfectly understood by Sweden, not only that we had no wish for her continuing the war, but that her making a separate peace, advantageous to herself, if it did not oblige her to become hostile to Great Britain, would be acceptable to this country. But while they did not instigate war, the government of this country were not prepared to push their opinion to the extent of denying the means of supporting the other alternative, if Sweden made that election. The noble lord had not been in the house when he laid the Treaty before them, or that part of his speech respecting the Subsidy would have been spared. With respect to the other powers, the noble lord had misunderstood his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The same abstinence he had noticed in our transactions with Sweden, had been pre-eminently attended to in our communications with Austria. Government had stated that Austria (as every nation was) was the best judge of her own interests; that there was no disposition on the part of Great Britain, for the sake of any combination against the common enemy, or for any temporary diversion in the cause of Spain, to have
542541Mr. Secretary Canning,
543 commended the conduct of ministers in having, as they stated, so long left it entirely at the discretion of the sovereign of Sweden, to conclude peace when he should feel it adviseable; but in his opinion ministers ought to have gone farther, and strongly advised that that sovereign to conclude a peace. According to his judgment, that advice ought to have been offered, and the subsidy granted by this country withheld. No such subsidy ought to have been advanced for the last twelve months. It was not, indeed, improbable, that this money had served in a great measure to urge the unfortunate monarch who received it, to pursue his wild scheme and policy, which led to the overthrow of his government. He was glad to understand that ministers had no concern whatever in advising Austria to engage in the present war. Had they any influence, indeed, they would have used it more wisely in dissuading that government from any such proceeding; and if any money was meant to be advanced to Austria, he begged to be exempted from those who would sanction any such advances, which he was convinced could not be of the least use to Austria, while it
543Mr. Ponsonby
 wished to observe, lest his silence should be construed into any acquiescence in the right hon. gentlemen's statement that ministers would not bind themselves as to the line of conduct which they might feel it expedient to adopt with respect to any pecuniary supplies to foreign powers.Mr. Secretary Canning
547546545l544l. would have been much better pleased if the 600,000547546545l544l.Mr. Whitbread
, adverting to what had fallen from the hon. gent. who had just sat down, said, his lecture on the good faith of France and the bad faith of Austria, must have an excellent effect when spread by our newspapers over the continent (Hear, hear!). He wished to know upon what proof the hon. gent. rested the assertion that Austria broke faith with France. For his part, he was quite of a different opinion, and that Austria was in hostility against France, because France was bent on her destruction. This, indeed, must, he thought, be obvious to every man who looked fairly at the state of Europe, and that, whether Austria entered into hostility or not, she was doomed to perish by the tyrant of France. But from what had escaped the hon. gent., it would seem that, in ascribing perfidy to Austria, he meant it to be understood that fidelity was to be ascribed to the councils of Buonaparté. The conclusion of his mind, however, was directly the reverse of that of his hon. friend. With respect to lotteries, he had never any concern in them. He was adverse to the system, and would be ready to support any proposition for putting an end to its existence.Mr. Ponsonby
549 expressed an entire concurrence in the sentiments so ably stated by the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, with regard to the principles and conduct of Austria. The hon. gent. who preceded him had observed, that ministers ought to have advised Austria to abstain from the war; he would be glad to know upon what ground he could justify the offer of such an advice? The hon. gent. must take a very strange view of the character of the French Ruler, if he could suppose that any country could look to safety from being at peace with such a power. But an independent state in such a case was the best judge of its own views and circumstances. It was not for the government of this or any other nation to dictate to it. He could say that Austria was in no degree influenced to take the steps she had resorted to by the influence of any British interest. God forbid that any such attempt should be made! At the same time he must add, that as safety was not to be had from peace with France, he should, of course, regret to see a great nation like Austria attempt to seek it by tame submission and dastardly acquiescence. Whatever the present situation or future fortunes of Austria might be, his opinion was, that as the
549Mr. Secretary Canning
 observed, that the right hon. Secretary had, for the first time since his right hon. friend came into that house, paid him a compliment this night. What! was it to be understood that there was a Treaty of Subsidy with his right honourable friend?Mr. Whitbread
 assured his hon. friend, that he valued not such Subsidy! His object in rising before was Merely to correct what he thought a nisconception on the part of his hon. friend; by charging upon France the bad faith which he attempted to fix upon the counsels of Austria.Mr. Ponsonby
550l. could not help adverting to the astonishment expressed by the hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread) how the right hon. gent. (Mr. Ponsonby) had been prepared to discover the good faith of Austria, and the bad faith of France. For his part, he was rather surprized that the hon. gent. who had no doubt on the one side without any evidence whatever, should express so much astonishment at any difficulty felt by those who were of a contrary opinion. He presumed the hon. gent. took his faith from the Papers of M. Champagny. On the other subject spoken to by the hon. gentleman, it was not his intention to argue it this night. The hon. gent. had said it might meet with an abler advocate: that he denied. The house had seldom or ever felt an argument come more forcibly home to their feelings; nor was it possible that the subject could ever be in more able hands. It would be for the house on some future occasion after this night to determine if the Lottery should ever again form part of the Ways and Means of the year. It should not, however, be taken for granted, because the guards against improper practices in Lotteries had once failed, that they must always fail. He was satisfied it was not to the Lotteries but to the Insurance that the objection lay. He did not say, that for the sake of a revenue of 300,000550l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l. could not rest satisfied without expressing upon this subject an opinion formed alter much enquiry and consideration. He thought the speech of the hon. gent. on the floor, (Mr. Whitbread) the most forcible appeal he had ever heard made to that house. He agreed, that when we looked to the widely extended ravages of war, the evils arising from Lotteries might be thought of little importance; but when the vice was seen to have spread through every situation of common life, it seemed to him to be utterly astonishing that it could be defended. He should not press the matter at present. The right hon. gent. said, he should put a stop to the mischief by abolishing insurance; and he was sure his right hon. friend persuaded himself of that, or he would not for much more than 300,000l.l.l.Mr. Wilberforce
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation given with respect to Sweden, and his coincidence in sentiment with Mr. Ponsonby on the affairs of Austria. He however disapproved of the Loan, which he considered as less advantageous in the 4 and 5 per cents. than it would have been in the 3 per cents. The present system made too great a fund of the 4 per cents. He commented upon the enormousness of the demand for the expences of the army; and wished to direct the views of economists to the diminution of the standing army. He desired the house not to do any thing in a moment of heat respecting Lotteries, and wished to know if the same scale of exemptions and contributions on the Income Tax were to remain as last year.Sir T. Turton
 said there were to be no new statutes this year respecting the Income Tax, they would act upon old laws.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it useless to enter into the question respecting lotteries at that time: whatever might be their decision, it would be of little importance, as the subject would be brought before the house, when they would have an opportunity of expressing their sentiments of the measure. The hon. gent. proceeded to shew it would not have been an advantage to the country, had the loan been negociated in the 3 per cents, as had been suggested: for if the interest were less, it should be remembered, that as the capital grew larger, the amount of the sinking fund would increase, and consequently such an arrangement would not appear eminently economical. He concluded, defending the propriety of funding Exehequer Bills in the 5 per cents.Mr. Huskisson
553552 was extremely sorry to hear his right honourable friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) treat the case of the Lottery as if it fell as a matter of course, to form part of the service of the year, without seeming to pay any attention to the Report of the Committee on that subject. The hon. baronet behind him had talked of not doing any thing in a moment of heat. Did the hon. baronet not know that a Committee had been appointed to inquire into this very subject: that that Committee, had reported during the last session; and that their Report had lain on the table from that time without any thing having been done upon it? The house was now situated as to this subject much in a similar way to
553552Sir Samuel Romilly
 said, the subject had been discussed over and over again, and that the result had been uniformly in favour of Lotteries.The Chancellor of the. Exchequer
 alluded to the evidence of Mr. Wood, the Inspector of Lotteries, who, it now appeared, notwithstanding the abuses which existed, thought he had no duties to perform; that his was merely a nominal appointment. He was resolved to make a stand some day or other against Lotteries altogether, and not to forget this man, who it appeared betrayed his duty to the public.Mr. Whitbread
 considered the bills concerning Lotteries as libels on public morals, and as they were, sanctioned by government, all the sense he entertained of public morals amounted to complete nausea.Mr. W. Smith
 objected to Lotteries as a financial measure. The test of a good tax was, that it put into the Exchequer the greater part of what was drawn out of the pockets of the people. Here, however the greater part went into the hand of the agent.Sir J. Newport
 opposed the continuance of Lotteries. Though the Chancellor of the Exchequer purposed to do away a great evil, could he shut his eyes against what remained?Mr. Babington
 said, that he only requested the hon. member yesterday to postpone his motion, in order to have an opportunity of consulting with others, how far it might be adviseable to grant the return. Upon the fullest consideration, however, it was thought that the names of those officers, and their present situations in the service, could not be communicated without exposing them to great hazard and injury at some future time; and, upon this account only, he must resist the motion.Lord Castlereagh
530 said, that the names of those officers were by no means secret; they were inserted in an authentic list of the army, published monthly, and must be known to every body desirous of learning their names. Therefore, he must consider the reason assigned by the noble lord, as a mere subterfuge for withholding the document he required. He could not, however, avoid remarking again, that while his majesty's government had thought fit to refuse the late duke of Bedford a commission, for the command of his own tenantry, in the defence of his native land, as too dangerous a confidence to repose in a nobleman who differed from them in politics, and also to refuse to lord Petre a commission for the command of 400 of his own infantry, armed and clothed at his own expence, for the like purpose, upon no other pretence than that of his being a Roman catholic; still they felt no hesitation in granting to colonel Charmilly, a Frenchman, an utter stranger, and a Roman catholic, letters of service to recruit French soldiers at the door of a military prison, for his majesty's service, and at a bounty of sixteen guineas per man; and afterwards, when they deemed it expedient to disband this regiment, to turn them loose upon the public. One of the motions he made upon a former night, was
530Mr. Whitbread
 declared himself perfectly satisfied by the explanation upon this subject.Mr. Whitbread
529 rose to revive a motion which he had proposed yesterday, but which he was then induced to defer at the request of the noble lord opposite to him (Castlereagh). It was for a return of the names of all the officers attached to the foreign corps, raised under colonel Charmilly: the various sums advanced to them in the way of allowance, or otherwise; and also their present state in his majesty's service. It did not strike him that there could be any objection to comply with the motion. The whole of those officers were known to be Roman catholics: he believed there were many of them, who from their conduct had not proved themselves to be men of the most unexceptionable character, although there were many others whose conduct was certainly irreproachable. It was, however, pretty extraordinary, that in 1794, when the letters of service were issued to French officers to enlist French soldiers from a military prison into his majesty's service, a positive refusal was given by the government, of the late duke of Bedford's request for a commission for the command of his own armed tenantry in the defence of his own country, under an apprehension
529Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that there was a difference between the manner of appointing the Masters in Chancery in Ireland and in this country; such appointments being made by the crown in the one, while they were made by the Lord Chancellor in the other. In consequence of this difference, it had become a practice for such masters as were about to retire to dispose of their places for money. A case of this nature occurred while he had the honour to hold the seals, and being applied to as usual, to sanction the sale, he hesitated, conceiving it rather extraordinary that a place for the administration of justice should be sold for money. However, upon being informed of the custom, and that the person seeking to dispose of the place had himself bought it, he gave his consent, on condition that the place should not again be sold by the purchaser. Yet as the circumstance of such purchases on the part of other masters created a case with regard to Ireland, to which the provisions of this Bill would not in equity apply, he suggested the propriety of introducing a clause upon that subject.Mr. Ponsonby
 expressed his readiness to support a clause to meet the case referred to, and recommended the right hon. gent. to propose it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 intimated his intention to do so.Mr. Ponsonby
 then stated, that if it was the wish of any member to propose further amendments, he would propose a re-committal of the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
574 said, the bill in its present state was perfectly nugatory. He had formerly had it in contemplation to introduce a clause into it, but on its being pointed out to him that the clause he thought of bringing forward would countenance the continuation in place of a person who had procured his appointment by corrupt means, in consideration of his having afterwards given information against others, he had not submitted it to the Committee. He was of opinion, that it would be proper to hold out some inducement to persons thus situated to inform against others concerned in such corrupt practices that some of the offenders might be punished (A cry of move, move! from the Opposition). The noble lord concluded, ex-
574Lord Folkestone
 wished the bill to be made as effectual as possible. He had no objection to give the noble lord every opportunity to improve it by the introduction of a new clause, and he would therefore move that it should be recommitted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. then moved "That for every such offence the party should be liable to forfeit and pay the sum of 500l.Lord Folkestone
 said, as he understood the noble lord intended to bring forward another clause, he wished to hear that; that knowing the substance of both, he might be able more correctly to judge of the measure suggested.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in reply, stated it to be somewhat on the same principle as the clause which he had formerly been induced to suppress; namely, the exonerating from punishment those who informed for having participated in the offence. Though he would have the party disabled from holding a situation obtained through such improper and unconstitutional influence.Lord Folkestone
l. did not think the Committee could go to the length of the noble lord's proposal. Were there no other ways of gaining information of such practices, it might be expedient to resort to the mode he had pointed out. But in the present state of things, he did not think it proper to hold out such a temptation to false evidence, or obtain true information by such means, and under such circumstances; possessing, as they did, other means of obtaining information, it was unnecessary. The temptation held out to false information, by adopting such a measure, he thought extremely dangerous, as the artifices of an infamous scoundrel might procure him 500l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said it was unnecessary to resort to such an expedient to obtain information, as sufficient information could be derived from other sources. This he denied; without the evidence of some one concerned, to obtain information was difficult, and perhaps in some instances impossible. He never thought the bill would do much good, but from the view he then had of it in its present state, he thought it might do harm. He thought with the right hon. gent., that it was but fair if the patron of an infamous scoundrel should suffer for endeavouring to advance such a character to a place of emolument or trust.Lord Folkestone
 declared his mind was open to conviction. The words of the right hon. gent, had had some effect on him, and if they could satisfy him that such a measure would be likely to benefit the country, he would give it his support. The noble lord had spoken as if information thus gained must be true; but that he thought extremely doubtful. He was of opinion, punishment would frequently fall where it was least deserved. Men might have exerted their influence with others to obtain a situation for scoundrels, who had got round them, and who might be wholly unknown to the person who gave them their situations. Yet against that person might they give information, though no party in the corruption. He might have given places to various persons on the recommendation of others, on whom he thought he could rely, since he had been in office, and a man thus appointed, might, were such a clause received, accuse him of corruption. Information might be given of the wrong, and, wrong or right, the informer would be rewarded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed the clause, on the grounds that punishment might fall where it was least deserved. A and B might be trafficing for a place, which B might obtain for A, through the influence of C, who might be wholly ignorant of the traffic between them. B being dead, A might charge C with corruption, though only culpable in yielding to the solicitations of B, and bestowing an office on a person he thought deserving of such a situation. A might, in fact, be more likely to accuse C than B, however culpable B might have been; as A and B might be supposed to be friends, while between A and C no connection whatever might have existed.The Attorney General
l.,l.l.l.l.577 rose to oppose this motion. He said, that this bill went merely to amend the laws as they now existed, and to continue a principle of finance which had been proved to be ineffectual. It was under these laws, and the principle of them, of collecting the duties by what was called a system of survey, that is, by measuring the wash, low wines and spirits, that all the illicit distillation had flourished, and still continued to flourish. He said, he was borne out by the Commissioners of Inquiry in desiring that this system should be departed from, as they had recommended another system, called the licence system, under which a distiller had only to take out a licence, and pay for it according to the number of gallons of spirits which it was presumed he could make in a year, by which means the revenue was sure of being very considerable, and the distiller was left at liberty to work without the vexatious interference of the excise officers. He was of opinion, that unless small stills were allowed to work, the illicit distillation would never be put down. He referred to Mr. Croker's evidence to prove, that a small still would
l.,l.l.l.l.577Mr. Bernard
 said, it was admitted that the laws on this subject wanted amendment: he knew that they did, and it was an object that the bill should go to a committee to find out the best mode. There was not one clause in the bill contrary to the opinion of the committee; there was a clause expressly for the encouragement of small stills, and if any gentleman wished to read the clause, he would read it to him [a laugh]. The right hon. gent. then read the clause, and argued that it was one of the leading principles of the bill to license small stills. His object for introducing it was, that it would afford a market throughout the country for small farmers to sell their corn. Whether the duties were raised by survey or licence, he was sure they could never be collected without the co-operation of gentlemen and farmers, but he would make great sacrifices to public opinion, to forward the object in view. He concluded with recommending to the house to go into a Committee on the bill on Thursday next.Mr. Foster
 said he had heard no objection but what could be answered in the Committee, and would therefore vote for its committal.Col. Barry
l.l.l.581 would wish the bill to go
l.l.l.581Mr. French
 said, where private distilleries were put down, loyalty increased, and he knew it was in the power of the gentry to do so. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave up his penal clause, it would give life to illicit distillery and disloyalty.Mr. Dennis Browne
 was glad to hear the hon. gent. argue as he did, but thought, if he acted on his theory, he would vote against the Chancellor of the Exchequer. From the sentiment of that right hon. gent., others must have a higher opinion of his complacency than he had, to think he would give way in the committee to change the substance of the bill.Mr. Fitzgerald
 said, his object in wishing the bill to go to a committee was, that its severities might be softened.Col. Barry
 withdrew his amendment, and the bill was then read a second time.Mr. Barnard
582 said, he was surprised that the measure should be brought forward without any attempt to prove its expediency. It was not beneficial to the British West India islands, but it would be a serious injury to the sugar refiners of this country, by bringing the sugar of Martinique in competition with theirs in the foreign market. Another class to whom it would be injurious was the inhabitants of Martinique themselves, who had agreed not to obstruct the army, in consequence of a proclamation which declared that they should be restored to the same government they had before;
582Mr. Marriat
 said, that he could not help thinking the gentlemen who belonged to the British plantations good judges of their own interests. With respect to the Sugar Refiners, he admitted they would incur some disadvantages from the bill. As to the promise held out in the proclamation, it could not mean that they should be restored to their former government and state, but signified a general expression of kindness which was not violated by the bill before the house. By it they were placed in a situation little inferior to the British planter; and by the 13th article of the capitulation, provision was made to keep that measure open to the adoption of the legislature. Where then, he asked, was the breach of faith? It had been said that a remonstrance was coming over; it might be the case, but he could not believe that it would be signed by the officers who commanded until he saw it.Mr. Rose
 said, that the public faith of the country was not pledged to the proposition stated by the hon. gent. The officers could not use a language capable of such an interpretation. They had gone out unshackled, and there was no stipulation or understanding between them and the inhabitants of Martinique previous to the proclamation. Upon that ground, therefore, the question was to be argued; he lamented that the principle of that measure was not taken up at an earlier period, as much benefit would result from it. Upon the whole, the motion had his approbation.Lord Castlereagh
 said, as a mere question of policy it was necessary to cultivate the militia of the island; for when we were last in possession of it, they repulsed several attacks made by the enemy from Guadaloupe, and as the bill did not go to give that encouragement, he would give his decided opposition to it, as he conceived Martinique was entitled to the same favour bestowed on other conquered islands.Mr. A. Baring
576 knew of no information that could be procured from accomplices, which would not be attended with such concomitant evils. He, however, thought the informer more likely to accuse the right than the wrong, for this plain reason; it was more easy to substantiate the fact in the former case than in the latter. He thought with the noble lord, that the bill in its present state was useless. That which it proposed to make a misdemeanor was before punishable by law, but no pro-
576Lord H. Petty
 said a few words in opposition to the bill.Mr. Hibbert
575 thought the objection of the Chancellor of the Exchequer not a very strong one. If the benefactor of an in-
575Mr. Tierney
572l. rose to call the attention of the house to a subject, trivial certainly in one point of view, though of some importance in another, and relative to which he proposed to offer a motion. It was a disgusting circumstance which ought not to exist; namely, the appointment of a person to the office of Ordnance Store-keeper in Hyde-Park, with a salary of 120572l.Mr. Whitbread
, in explanation, said, he had thrown no blame on any person whatsoever; all he had said was, that in his opinion the military were the proper persons on whom such appointments should be bestowed; and he was sure he could get a hundred officers who would be happy to accept it. He also thought the Master General of the Ordnance should have looked out for some such, upon whom to bestow it.Mr. Whitbread
 thought the bill should be allowed to go to a Committee, in which the fines and the drawback allowed to large distilleries might be so regulated as to prevent their being injurious to the smaller ones.Mr. Huskisson
 contended that they were to construe the capitulation, not according to the intention of the officers, but to the sense in which it was taken by the people who were the subjects of it.Mr. Jacob
l. said, he was the person who had five years ago recommended this Mr. Walter to the situation, in consequence of an application from lord Chatham, then master of the ordnance, to him, requesting him to look out for a trusty person to fill that office; and it was he also who had named the salary of 100l.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 was surprized at the motion of his hon. friend for putting off the second reading of this bill. Having been privy to many conversations between the distillers and the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland, he bore testimony to the attention with which every suggestion from them was received, and was sure that the fullest consideration would be given to any amendments which honourable gentlemen might be disposed to propose in the Committee.Sir George Hill
580579s.l.578 said he rose to support the amendment of the hon. member who spoke last but one. He thought with him, that this bill ought to be opposed on its principle, which was to continue a system of collecting the duties on spirits, which
580579s.l.578Mr. Parnell
 said, that though he agreed for the most part with what had fallen from the last speaker, he thought it better to let the bill go to a Committee.Mr. J. Stewart
 said, he would allow the bill to go to a committee if it were likely to answer the object. The officers under the survey system had been guilty of great fraud, and he had complained of one who was subsequently promoted; the present bill went to the indemnification of all officers who had been guilty of collusive seizures, and he could not think the bill likely to go to a committee; it was incapable of emendation, and he wished it to be rejected altogether.Sir J. Newport
 said, that being a relation of the gentleman whose name had been just mentioned, and having been long a friend of his and his father's, he had received a letter from him upon that subject, to which the hon. member alluded, from which letter the right hon. gent, read the following extract: "I beg to assure you that the statement of lord Castlereagh having suggested to me that I ought to resign my seat rather than vote against the Duke of York, is totally unfounded."Mr. Foster
598 observed, that understanding a report had gone abroad, that the case which he felt it his duty to submit to the consideration of the house in the course of last week, was brought forward at the in-
598Mr. Madocks
 said, that on occasions such as the present, it had been the invariable practice of parliament to vote its thanks to those who distinguished themselves in the service. There was a class of actions which he said was not at all inferior in importance to those of a general nature, he meant actions between individual vessels. There was no species of merit greater than that of individuals, on such occasions. In the present instance, death ensued to the individual, but it was death connected with victory, and met by the opposition of an inferior to a superior force. The principle of the present motion he should consider not only as fair, but extremely advantageous to the interests of the navy. Had it not been brought forward by his hon. friend, he would himself most eagerly have undertaken it.Lord Castlereagh
 thought, that if they were to erect monuments to every heroic officer that fell in the service, they would have to raise buildings, in the first instance, to contain their monuments.Mr. Marryat
613 rose to move, that a committee be appointed to inspect the Journals of the house of lords as far as related to any Standing Order with respect to the introduction of Divorce Bills into the upper house. He commented at some length on the hard-
613Lord Porchester
 could not follow the noble lord's argument to the conclusion which had been drawn from it. The alarm which the noble lord desired to excite on this subject appeared to him most unfounded. There could be no doubt that the lords had the power to introduce such a clause into a bill, without any Standing Order; and this house had nothing further to do with it than to canvass the propriety of the clause when it came up in any bill. The order, he said, did not provide that the bill should not go out of the house without such a clause; but went merely to regulate the mode in which Divorce Bills should be introduced. The lords had nothing more than abridge their own privileges to a certain extent. Both houses were perfectly competent to regulate their own modes of proceeding. They had nothing to do with bills till they came before them. This was a regulation binding merely upon the lords themselves. He therefore objected to the motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
614 thought the stile of argument of the right hon. gent, very extraordinary. He said that it was a regulation as to the introduction of bills; but the meaning was, that no bill should go out of the house of lords without such a clause. The object was, to compel this house either to do individual injustice by rejecting a bill, or to pass it with this clause. This,
614Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that the house would have to discuss every bill on its own merits. If the clause in question should be rejected, than the lords themselves, would have to consider whether they would sacrifice the principle or the views of the parties. The inconvenience rested with the lords themselves, and not with this house.Mr. Bathurst
615 contended, that the spirit of the order must be, that the lords would not in any way entertain a bill of Divorce without such a clause. To prove this, he quoted the rules with respect to Naturalization Bills. If it could be supposed that this was the meaning of the order, then it was a most serious measure, and ought to be examined. The difficulty on this house would be extreme, as they would be called upon in every particular case, to beware, because, if they rejected this clause the bill would be thrown out. He was surprised at the objection of his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The object was to see what the order was. At present it appeared to be an attempt
615Sir S. Romilly
 observed, that although the lords, by their Standing Order, declared that they would not receive a Divorce Bill without a clause to prevent the guilty parties from intermarrying, they had not declared that they would not receive such a bill from the house of commons. It was fairly to be presumed that they meant to confine the influence of their Order to bills originating in their own house. Conceiving that the noble lord had not made out any breach of the privileges of the house, as having been attempted by the lords, he should give his negative to the motion.Mr. Hawkins Browne
 supposed that the hon. and learned gentleman would not have brought forward a proposition of this nature without having some good end in view; although he professed himself perfectly at a loss to comprehend his meaning, and requested he would have the goodness, for the benefit of himself and his friends near him, to be a little more explicit.Mr. Ponsonby
 entered into a more detailed explanation of his object. By the act of the 36th of George 3, it had been enacted, that houses where debating societies were held on certain subjects therein described, and where money was received at the doors, should be licenced; and that those houses in which such debates were held, and where money was received at the doors, without a licence, should be punished as disorderly. By the act of 39 Geo. 3, it was enacted, that where debating societies of the description alluded to were held, and money received, and where the houses in which they were held had no licence, those houses should be deemed disorderly, "within the meaning of the 30th of George 3."—Now, if the 30th of George 3, had created the offence of disorderly houses, then the signification of those words would have been plain, and it would have only been necessary to refer to the 36th for a definition of the term; but that was not the case. The 39th of George 3, had full operation, as declaring what was disorderly, and what was punishable, although the 36th were out of the case. But as he understood that by the introduction of the words referring to the 39th, doubts had arisen with respect to the meaning of the 39th, his object was to repeat those words, and leave the 39th without them.The Attorney General
618 stated, that he thought it right to take that opportunity of mentioning to the hon. gentleman, and to the house, the objections which pressed upon his mind as to this bill. He should not say that these objections might not be obviated; but he felt it desirable to state them in that instance, in order to give gentlemen an opportunity of turning them in their minds, with a view to obviate them if possible. His first objection applied to the manner in which the bill described the offence; his next objection was, to the manner in which the offence was to be punished; and his third objection was against the manner, in which by a precautionary provision, it was proposed to prevent the recurrence of the offence. If the bill were to pass in its then form, it would comprehend a variety both of acts and conduct, which he was persuaded had never been in contemplation of the honourable framer. It would apply not only to the sale of seats in that house, but to the sale of property or interests, which might give influence in the return of members to that house. If this bill were to pass, no burgage tenures could be sold, nor any property that would carry with it influence at an election, without incurring the penalties of the bill. This was an insurmountable objection to it in its present form. Besides, it would act prospectively and retrospectively, directly and indirectly, so that no man who had a vote at an election, could at any time receive a favour from a member. This was an operation of the bill, which he was convinced had never entered into the mind of the honourable gentleman. He had himself turned his thoughts to the bill, and discovered difficulties which could not be obviated without getting rid of several clauses which the honourable member wished to retain. It was not a satisfactory answer to say that a jury would not construe the act to extend to such cases as were not obviously intended to bias the particular election. The house should not leave that to a jury to decide, and besides it was highly ob-
618The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, that when the house had agreed to the second reading, it sanctioned the principle of the bill; and that they had a right to know from his right hon. friends, whether they thought the abuses proposed to be remedied by this bill were such as ought to be corrected. He considered the house as placed in a situation in which it had never been before. It was new to parliament to have the practices proposed to be corrected by this bill admitted within that house. This bill was not to interfere with the sale of property; neither would it touch, in the remotest degree, the question respecting a reform in the representation in that house. It was intended to correct an evil acknowledged to exist, and upon which the house had a right to expect an opinion from his majesty's ministers. As to the first objection of his right hon. friend, it might be got over by leaving out a few words. The other objections also, he was of opinion, might be got rid of in the committee.Mr. Bathurst
 was of opinion that parliament had not lost the confidence of the public; and if it had, this bill was not calculated to retrieve it, for it had not met with the approbation of the Solon and Lycurgus of the Crown and Anchor.Mr. Dennis Browne
620 did not think it necessary to argue with the right hon. gent, whether the house had or had not lost the confidence of the country. The right hon. gent, had not lately been found in attendance on the debates of the house, and probably from that circumstance, and
620Lord Folkestone
 should object to this measure if it were intended to stop here, and allow the rotten boroughs to be held by their present tenures. He had always been of opinion that a moderate reform was necessary.Mr. Lockhart
 understood the discussion of the principle of the bill to have been postponed till the question for the Speaker's leaving the chair. Many members, he was convinced, were now absent on that understanding.Mr. Ponsonby
624 defended
624The Chancellor of the Exchequer
625 would not have obtruded himself on their notice at that late hour, had he not thought the arguments of his right hon. friend opposite, sophisticated and fallacious. The right hon. gent. had stated, that if Lotteries were abolished, Little Goes would still exist, and cause all those evils to fall on the lower orders, which were deplored as resulting from State Lotteries. Had not public Lotteries been countenanced, Little Ones would never have been so general. The latter, however, were only sought after by per-
625Sir S. Romilly
54Majority in favour of Lotteries
54Majority in favour of Lotteries36Against them
36Against them90For Lotteries
90For Lotteries
54Majority in favour of Lotteries
54Majority in favour of Lotteries36Against them
36Against them90For Lotteries
90For Lotteries made a few remarks on the bad effects of Lotteries.—After which the house divided, when the numbers appeared,
54Majority in favour of Lotteries
54Majority in favour of Lotteries36Against them
36Against them90For Lotteries
90For Lotteries
54Majority in favour of Lotteries
54Majority in favour of Lotteries36Against them
36Against them90For Lotteries
90For LotteriesMr. Bahington
 observed, that while this was confined to bills originating in the house of lords, he saw no objection to it. Both houses had a right to regulate its own proceedings. But these bills might originate in this house; and the words of the order were, that the lords would not entertain any bill without such a clause. It was possible, therefore, that they might apply to bills sent from this house. For this reason he would vote for the motion.Mr. C. Wynn
 professed as high a sense of the merits of captain Hardinge, as any gentlemen who heard him; but he thought it necessary to draw some line of distinction. Captain Cook had got no monument; captain Farmer, who was blown up in his ship, the Quebec, disdaining to quit his post, though inevitable death was the result, had got no monument. He could not agree to this motion, though at the same time he did not wish to give it a direct negative. He should therefore move the previous question.Mr. C. Wynn
 deprecated the injury to which individual parties might be subject by a difference of opinion between the two houses of parliament on an abstract question. With a view of giving an opportunity for an assimilation of their sentiments, he should vote for the motion of the noble lord.Mr. H. Smith
 moved the second reading of the Seats in Parliament Bill. The bill was then read a second time, and on the question that it be committed,Mr. Curwen
 thought it would be cruel to stop the practice in this particular case. The respect of the country to their memories was the only reward which the brave men who fell in its defence could receive.Mr. Curwen
, in explanation, stated, that he had not been present at the meeting at the Crown and Anchor.Mr. Curwen
 congratulated the house that the objections of the right hon. gent, were not to the principle of the bill. What the right hon. gent. said, had certainly considerable weight with him. It was never in his intention to destroy the right of disposing of burgage tenure, because that would lead to the destruction of the right to dispose of freeholds. But when the bill should come into the committee, he hoped that means would be devised to get rid of all the difficulties stated by the right hon. gent. As to the Oath, he thought it ought not to be imposed in the detail, if not in the wholesale. At all events, nothing could tend so much to set that house right with the public, as to shew that no persons could get improperly into it. If parliament did not reform itself, it would, according to the saying of a great man, be reformed with a vengeance from without. When abuses were proved to exist, it would add to the dissatisfaction of the people, if the necessary remedies should not be applied to correct them.Mr. Curwen
nem. con. bore his testimony to the particular merits of captain Hardinge. After a few words from sir C. Pole, and Mr. Whitbread, the previous question was negatived without a division, and the vote for the monument was carried nem. con.Admiral Markham
 could not conceive that the lords would have been so foolish as to make a Standing Order without intending that it should have its effect. That purposed effect appeared to him evidently to be, that no Divorce Bill should pass them without such a clause as the one alluded to. If, however, their object were confined to prevent the introduction merely of a Divorce Bill, without the clause in question, till he conceived that the step taken by them was highly objectionable. Adverting to the principle of the standing order itself, he expressed his disapprobation of it, and his conviction that it would not contribute to the cause of morality.Mr. Barham
 supported the original motion.Mr. Long
611610609608, in rising to address the house
611610609608Mr. R. Ward
617 would have an opportunity, on the second reading, of stating his opinion of the bill. At the same time he must observe, that he thought the honourable and learned gentleman must have some cases to state to the house as the ground of his motion, or he would not, after the lapse often years, touch so delicate a question. He did not mean to dissent from the motion for bringing in the bill; but he begged not to be understood as
617Mr. Whitbread
l.623l.622l.621 restated his objections to Lotteries, and declared his determination to take the sense of the house on the Resolution on this subject. A Committee had been appointed to consider the subject, and after a laborious investigation their report had been unfavourable. There was an argument advanced on the other side, that such was the spirit of gambling existing in the country, that whether parliament
l.623l.622l.621Mr. Whitbread
 followed upon the same side, and said, that it had been admitted that since the year 1760, there had been but four instances of the same service. Had captain Hardinge survived that glorious victory, his majesty no doubt would have made him an object of the royal favour: as he had fallen, that house ought not to refuse him the only mark of public gratitude, that they now could confer upon his memory.Mr. W. Adam
 did not conceive by the present vote, that the value of the honour would be at all diminished. He thought the monument ought to be voted, and that unanimously and honourably.Mr. W. Smith
 considered the Lottery peculiarly objectionable, because it diffused a spirit of gambling among the people, while it produced no benefit to the public treasury in any degree commensurate to the injury it inflicted upon the interest of the community, by the number of victims which it produced; by the crowds which it deprived of the means, and detached from the pursuit of industry. With regard to the argument that gambling would still go on, if this licensed course were put an end to, and therefore that it was better to continue the Lottery, and thus place the system under certain regulations, it appeared to be quite of the same nature, and equally fallacious with the reasons advanced to palliate the Slave Trade. For there it was urged, that if we discontinued the traffic, that it would be prosecuted by others without the mitigation of our regulated system. But such pretences could never reconcile his mind to the existence of a law for the toleration of that which was obviously wrong.Mr. Wilberforce
612 concurred in the original motion, and thought the country had no ground for disagreeable sensations, in the apprehension of such a consequence as that predicted by the right hon. gent.; namely, that if we were to vote too frequently distinctions of this sort, we were in danger of being overwhelmed with monuments to the brave, whose valour would call for such honourable distinction in death. On the contrary, he feared we were rather too niggardly of our honourable distinctions to the army and navy,
612Mr. Wilberforce
 felt himself under the necessity, however reluctantly, of opposing the motion; because, if once the principle were to grow into practice of voting a monument to every officer whose valour might lead to a loss of his life in actions with single ships or frigates, not only Would the claims upon the country become innumerable (such was the prominent valour of our naval officers), but the thing from its frequency would cease to be, what it now was, an honourable distinction, the very rarity of which constituted its chief value. This was not the kind of case in which the country had been accustomed to vote monuments; it was not that great and signal victory of vast national importance, by which the gratitude and the enthusiasm of the country were wound up to such a pitch, as in fact to run before the house in the wish of distinguishing the memory of the deceased.Mr. Windham
 thought, that his honourable friend, when his bill had been suffered to take its chance for a second reading, had no occasion to make the harangue he had delivered, or to utter the menaces against that house with which his speech concluded. He had himself determined to remain till the question of the second reading of this bill, though he was jealous of its progress. He would not admit that parliament had lost the confidence of the public, at least of the thinking part of the public; and he did not allow that the corruptions alluded to by his hon. friend existed, at any rate not in the sense in which his hon. friend said they did. He had risen only to protest against the harangue of his hon. friend, and to lay in his claim to an unfettered exercise of his judgment upon the merits of his bill.Mr. Windham
 contended, that the motion ought to be adopted, in order to see what the exact nature of the order was. If it should be found that it had any effect on the privileges of this house, then this house would have to consider how it should defend itself. He argued strongly upon the unfairness of not being permitted to discuss any individual case, without being shackled by such a clause as this. No evil could arise from an inquiry into the nature of the case; and there was sufficient ground to authorize such an inquiry.Mr. Windham
 said he did not wish to detain the house by going into a detail of the measure, but he believed it to be a most scandalous and injurious way of raising money upon the public. That a lottery engendered vice no man could deny; the seductions were strong and numerous, and calculated to catch the lower orders of the people, whose minds were as weak as their passions were strong. A guinea for a shilling, and twenty thousand pounds for twenty were allurements they could not with stand. His feeling had ever been uniform on the subject, and he thought the evil so great that nothing but the necessities of the state could justify the resorting to lotteries. If it were at an earlier period of the practice, he should certainly vote against it, but as it was now become so interwoven with the system of finance, he saw no particular advantage in opposing it at present.Mr. Windham
l.l. replied to the arguments of the last speaker. He did not conceive him warranted, on good grounds, to state that all the ills he detailed arose from the lottery. Neither was he right in stating the sum accruing to government, from the lottery, at 300,000l.l.Sir T. Turton
638637636 in rising to give his most decided opposition to the measure now proposed, felt himself also bound to state his reasons for that opposition, and though he owned he had felt himself in some degree waver in his opinions, in the course of the conversation he had with the hon. gent. on the subject, yet, upon the most mature consideration he could give it, he was now already of opinion, that nothing radically beneficial could be effected. He had even so strong a wish on the occasion as to go the length of preparing a bill for the purpose, although the hon. gent., in all he had said, had not stated how his plan was to be carried into excution. In the course however of his investigation, he had found such difficulties in his way, so various and so multiplied, as obliged him to abandon his intentions, as altogether impracticable. He wished to look at it as a measure likely to calm the disquietudes
638637636The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 thought it was the most serious duty of government to attend to the evils arising out of the present system of tithes in Ireland. He was friendly to the motion of the hon. member, and to any proposition which had for its object the amelioration of the state of the Irish peasant. He feared it was too late in the session to enter with due deliberation on so important a subject? but if it was brought forward early in the next, it should have his support.Mr. D. Browne
 thought, that after a discussion which had lasted for six hours, this question could not receive a full discussion and he was therefore for the postponement.Mr. G. Jahnstone
 declared, that if this bill were to pass, four-fifths of the boroughs would be affected by it. The motion of which an honourable friend of his had given notice for a Reform in Parliament, was less objectionable than this measure, and therefore this bill should have his decided negative.Mr. Ridley Colburne
** then moved that the debate be adjourned, and it was accordingly adjourned to Thursday next.**Mr. Lemon
 supported the motion, and in doing so, represented the hardships of a million of the people of Ireland, who were exposed to greater burdens in regard to tithes than the people of England: and in Ireland no poor rates and no paupers were supported at the public expence, while those here were supported by poor rates and in workhouses. He thought the fate of the Irish peasant not superior to that of the negro. The present measure went to his amelioration, and therefore he contended it ought to be voted for.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 argued against the motion. He should be glad to hear of any plan that was likely to effect a change that could add to the comforts of those paying tithes, but he had as yet heard of none that could meet with his approbation. He recommended to gentlemen not to bring forward any measure of this sort until they could prepare a proper substitute for that which they meant to remedy.Mr. M'Naghten
 supported the motion. He thought the tithe system in England was perfect in comparison to that of Ireland, and although the present proposition did not go to remedy the evil, yet it pledged the house, that early in next session they would turn their attention to it.Mr. Hutchinson
 moved the Previous Question, as he saw no prospect of the house being able to discuss the measure during this session, and it was only encouraging a feeling which they could not gratify.Mr. French
 said there was no reason to apprehend that the measure for remedying the evils complained of could infringe upon the Protestant Church, as it was one of the essential) provisions of the Union that that should be maintained as the established religion of the land. He understood that the generality of the ecclesiastical bodies in Ireland were all in favour of a change in the system of collecting tithes, and it was only a few of the higher order who objected to it.Mr. Ponsonby
 after the long discussion which had already taken place, submitted whether it would not be desirable to postpone the debate upon this important subject to a future day.Lord Folkestone,
667666665664663662661660659658657l.l.l.656655654l.653652651650 rose and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker; I much approve of the sentiments expressed by the hon. gent. (Mr. Ridley Colburne) who first spoke in this debate. He has stated sufficient ground to satisfy the house, that if it were to adopt the remedies proposed by the author of the Bill, there would ensue evils much greater than those which it is now sought to cure. But there are reasons still more cogent, which induce me to believe, that it is the duty of the house to reject the proposition in its present stage. This is a measure of no ordinary nature; my hon. friend modestly professes to desire only to carry into effect the Resolutions which stand recorded on our Journals; but his Bill is broad and comprehensive in its enactments; and, if passed into a law in its present shape, will alter the composition of parliament in such a degree, that few, indeed, of the persons I have now the honour to address, could retain their seats, if they complied strictly with all the obligations about to be imposed.—It appears to me, that there is no sufficient ground stated for the house to adopt measures of so dangerous and so in-
667666665664663662661660659658657l.l.l.656655654l.653652651650Mr. George Johnstone
 observed, that he was descended from those persons who had originated the acts against bribery at elections, and for the trial of controverted elections, and consequently a friend to any measure, calculated to promote the objects professed in those acts. Those who gave money for their seats, did it with a view to get it back; and, though some of those who get into parliament in that way were good members, others were bad, and consequently he should support the bill.Sir W. W. Wynn
645644 observed there was no subject that pressed more upon the feelings of the Irish people than tithes. It affected them in every way. First, it came in the shape of the proctor to the door of the poor man's hovel, backed by an indefinite demand, and followed by a law-suit and a charge for agency.—The proctor was odious
645644Mr. Grattan
647 said, that he had often turned his attention to the subject of the tithe system of Ireland, and never had done so without coming to a conclusion that this system was a great inconvenience, if not a severe grievance to that part of the empire. No one could feel more desirous than he did to amend or alter the oppressive parts of it; it was the conviction of his mind, that some modification would be useful, and he felt it to be his public duty to take the first fair and favourable opportunity of effecting it; but it was those very feelings that obliged him to oppose the motion of the hon. gent. which he sincerely thought would render more difficult, if not altogether impossible, the effective remedy of the evils complained against. In the first place, the time at which this measure is proposed is totally unsuitable: at so late a period of the session, to enter on a subject of such vast importance, of such intricate detail, and such various interests, would be in fact to insure its defeat, and by such defeat to create a prejudice against it, when hereafter brought forward at a fitter season. He thought, too, that as a remedy of the system, it was totally inadequate, and he could not think that enabling the clergy to make tithe leases for 21 years, would in any considerable degree alleviate the pressure on the peasant and the poor. But his great objection to the motion arose out of his anxious wish to ameliorate the existing system, because the proposed bill went in fact to perpet-nate it; it went to pledge the good faith of parliament to its continuance for 21 years at least, during which time no change could be proposed; but it went farther, and extended its existence for 21 years, from the date of any future lease that might be made under it, before the actual change should be approved; so that at whatever time we should agree to a modification of the system, 21 years must elapse before it could become effectual. Under these circumstances, and from this pressing consideration, he felt himself obliged, as a friend to the principle of
647Mr. Croker
649 was at all times anxious to hear the sentiments of the house upon this question; but as he was aware that some of the clauses in the bill were dis-
649Mr. Curwen
643642641640639 Sir, as I intend to support the motion of my hon. friend, because I conceive it might be of some service in doing away part of the evil, which results from the mode of collection according to the present system, yet I cannot support it without declaring that I consider it totally inadequate to give that relief which I should wish to give to the people of Ireland, and consequently that it will be unsatisfactory to that nation. And moreover, this discussion must be attended with something more than disappointment to the people, when they know that the Chancellor of the Exchequer having, as he says, long contemplated a similar measure, and even prepared a bill for the purpose, was induced by what he calls an infinity of difficulties, to abandon even his inadequate modifications. And having contemplated in his mind what was little more than futile, to have ended his purposes in nullity. For I agree with my hon. friend that nothing but a general measure can be satisfactory to the people: a measure of complete commutation or abolition. And as the right hon. gent. intended the bill which he contemplated as a bar to future relief so I may doubt that, even if the present motion were passed, it might not be considered rather as an impediment than as an assistance to the speedy accomplishment of a general and perfect relief from the system of tithes. At any rate it would be only a slight palliative to an inveterate disorder.—Nor can I ever agree to consider the declarations of the British ministers at the time of the Union as less than pledges on the part of Britain. So were they held out to the Irish nation, and so
643642641640639Mr. Tighe.
648Canning rose, and stated his anxiety that some remedy should be adopted for the evils complained of, but he saw no prospect of effecting any thing effectual during the present session. The house were at present much in want of information upon the subject of Irish policy, a circumstance which was much to be regretted, but as it could not proceed to propose a remedy, he should wish this question to be disposed of by the previous question, rather than an actual negative.648CanningMr. Wilberforce
l. said in reply that he by no means desired an abolition of tithes; that he did not wish for any alteration, but such a one as would secure the clergy a fair equivalent for what they now possessed; that the inference he drew from the relative numbers of Catholics and Protestants went merely to this, that if nine-tenths of the people were to pay the clergy of the remaining one-tenth, they ought to be permitted to pay them in the way the most easy and agreeable to themselves. He said he was extremely surprised to hear it objected to his motion that the period of the session was too late for entertaining it; because the Irish Chancellor of the Exchequer would on Wednesday next propose to the house to lay new taxes upon the people of Ireland, to the amount of 2 or 400,000l.Mr. Parnell
635M'Nevin.Speaker.634633632l.l.s.631630l.l.s.629stand628627s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.d.626 rose to make his promised motion on the subject of Tithes in Ireland. He desired that the petitions from the Queen's county and the county of Kerry might be read; he then read the resolutions of the counties of Tipperary, Clare, Wicklow, and Armagh, the purport of which went to point out the policy of a Commutation of Tithes, and addressed the Chair nearly as follows: I have thought it right, Mr. Speaker, to put the house in possession of the information contained in these petitions and resolutions, in order that it might be known to the house, that the motion which I shall have the honour to submit to it, is not one that arises from the wish of an individual to agitate this most important subject, but that it is one which has been called for by the public voice of a large portion of the people of Ireland. The six counties which have thus delivered an opinion upon the subject, being each of them of very considerable extent, and, as far as I am able to form an opinion, the faithful organ of the universal opinion of the people of Ireland.—I have no hesitation in saying, that it is the universal wish of the people of Ireland, that an alteration should take place in the mode by which the clergy of the established church are now paid, and amongst the people of Ireland I will go so far as to include the clergy themselves, because I know from an extensive personal acquaintance with that body, and from the grievances that they sustain under the existing system, that it is their wish, as well as their interest, that an alteration should take place. Before, Sir, I enter upon an explanation of the motion which I shall submit to the house, I wish to make a few prefatory observations. I am particularly desirous to be understood as not attri-
635M'Nevin.Speaker.634633632l.l.s.631630l.l.s.629stand628627s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.d.626Mr. Parnell
669 called the attention of the house to a subject which he considered of great importance, and requiring the application of a speedy and effectual remedy; he meant the mode hitherto practised in the raising, expenditure, and accounting for the monies voted by the Grand Juries in the several counties in Ireland; the latter particularly of which was become a mere form, and wholly inoperative. The evils arising from the multiplication of oaths were universally felt and acknowledged. In the case of treasurers for counties in Ireland the mode of accounting was merely upon oath, before a single magistrate, and was found to be wholly nugatory. By the bill which it was his intention to move to bring in, he proposed to correct this evil, by making them, instead thereof, to account regularly, in open court, before the Judge of assize; which, he conceived, would prove a check upon them; and also that they should give security for the trust reposed in them.—Another evil which he conceived to call for redress was the way public works were carried on. By the present system any work voted by a Grand Jury at one assizes was necessarily executed, and the accounts passed at the ensuing assizes; this was attended both with fraud and imperfections in the execution of such work. The remedy he proposed for this, was a delay of a certain period of time, intervening between the execution of such work and the passing the accounts; for the purpose of affording leisure both for examining into the work itself, and the accounts of the expenditure thereon. With regard to the levying the money necessary for the carrying on such works, he proposed that this should, in future, be fixed at stated periods, that so the persons called on might not be taken by surprise. He also promised to introduce into his bill a power in those interested to traverse either the work itself, or the accounting for it, by the means of civil bill, before the assistant barrister of the county, as a check before the passing the accounts.—As a further improvement, he proposed that in future all proceedings of Grand Juries, on all subjects relative to presentments, should become matters of record, by being entered on their books, for the inspection of future Grand Juries, thereby enabling them to
669Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 observed, that as it was not intended to press any measure during the present session, he should, without pledging himself to agree to any thing specific, not oppose the bringing in the bill.Mr. Foster
 expressed himself adverse from any measure of this kind, which he considered as an innovation upon those who had purchased lands, subjected only to the present rate, and as such entitled to call for compensation.Col. Barry
 coincided in opinion with the right hon. gent. opposite him, as to the necessity of some regulation in the mode of levying the tax, which was at present grounded upon what was called the Down Survey; since which there were ten acres for one in cultivation, and which, by the present system, were exempted from the tax.—Leave was given to bring in the bill.Mr. Dennis Browne
673672 said, he believed the hon. officer who brought forward this motion, would not have been induced to call
673672Lord Castlereagh
, in explanation, stated that the 24 British officers appointed to serve in the Portuguese army were obliged to give up the commissions they held in this service; and although he could not then say whether the vacancy of lord Burghersh's majority was yet filled up, yet he assured the house that it was impossible for that noble lord to retain it.Lord Castlereagh
, although as strenuous a friend as any in that house to the propriety of conferring military rewards upon all officers who had signally conducted themselves, still declared his opinion, that lord Burghersh's late promotion was an act of gross and crying injustice. The hon. member next adverted to the illustration which the noble lord had attempted to make, by alluding to the case of general Graham, and concluded with a high eulogium upon the truly distinguished services and numerous advantages conferred upon his country by that officer in Italy and in Egypt, in Portugal and Spain.Mr. Hutchinson
 stated his anxiety to give an explicit reason for his vote on the present motion, particularly as he was in the habit of generally supporting the present servants of the crown. He considered that promotion highly improper from the effect it would have in creating great dissatisfaction amongst many very meritorious officers of high character and great experience in the military service, and therefore he should support the motion.Lord Newark
 said, that he could never subscribe to the doctrine that night maintained, viz. that the interests of the crown and the country were at variance. Thinking the contrary, he was determined to support the motion for investigating the causes of a promotion which, in his opinion, was highly unjust and improper. There could be no similarity between the services of general Graham and lord Burghersh. The former had conferred lasting and admitted benefits upon the country, and particularly in the important information he procured for sir John Moore; whilst he never heard any specific circumstance or place which were either the effect or theatre of the noble lord's exploits.Sir Charles Burrell
 defended the course of argument pursued by his noble friend (lord Castlereagh), and contended, that six years had expired from the appointment of lord Burghersh to his ensigncy until his promotion to the majority.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d.s.l.d.;s.l.l.,d.s.l.l.l.,680l.l.l.679l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.678£.216,500£.618,000
£.216,500£.618,00060,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills
60,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits
32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in Brewery
£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in BreweryInInPer Ann.Per Ann.
InInPer Ann.Per Ann.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
£.216,500£.618,000
£.216,500£.618,00060,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills
60,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits
32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in Brewery
£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in BreweryInInPer Ann.Per Ann.
InInPer Ann.Per Ann.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.(In 1809 £.212,800)
(In 1809 £.212,800)264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon
264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)
£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)
(In 1809 £.212,800)
(In 1809 £.212,800)264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon
264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)
£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)10,514,694
10,514,69427,494Excess of Ways and Means
27,494Excess of Ways and Means10,487,200
10,487,2003,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund
3,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.
6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.
10,514,694
10,514,69427,494Excess of Ways and Means
27,494Excess of Ways and Means10,487,200
10,487,2003,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund
3,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.
6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.10,514,694
10,514,6944,500,000
4,500,0001,250,000Ditto in Ireland
1,250,000Ditto in Ireland3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British
3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British4,500,000Estimated Revenue
4,500,000Estimated Revenue1,514,694
1,514,694224,687
224,687191,793—Navigations
191,793—Navigations3,814—Arrear to Howth
3,814—Arrear to Howth£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt
£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt1,739,381Unappropriated Balances
1,739,381Unappropriated Balances£.£.
£.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
10,514,694
10,514,6944,500,000
4,500,0001,250,000Ditto in Ireland
1,250,000Ditto in Ireland3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British
3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British4,500,000Estimated Revenue
4,500,000Estimated Revenue1,514,694
1,514,694224,687
224,687191,793—Navigations
191,793—Navigations3,814—Arrear to Howth
3,814—Arrear to Howth£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt
£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt1,739,381Unappropriated Balances
1,739,381Unappropriated Balances£.£.
£.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS., in the said Committee, stated the annual Ways and Means for Ireland, commonly called the Budget; which were as follow:
d.s.l.d.;s.l.l.,d.s.l.l.l.,680l.l.l.679l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.678£.216,500£.618,000
£.216,500£.618,00060,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills
60,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits
32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in Brewery
£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in BreweryInInPer Ann.Per Ann.
InInPer Ann.Per Ann.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
£.216,500£.618,000
£.216,500£.618,00060,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills
60,0002 mouths240,0003. Increase work on Stills32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits
32,5002 months130,0002. Increase of Duty on strength of Spirits£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in Brewery
£.124,000hf.-yr.£.248,0001. Prohibiting Raw Corn in BreweryInInPer Ann.Per Ann.
InInPer Ann.Per Ann.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.(In 1809 £.212,800)
(In 1809 £.212,800)264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon
264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)
£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)
(In 1809 £.212,800)
(In 1809 £.212,800)264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon
264,000Int. and Sinking Fun thereon£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)
£.4,500,000Money to be borrowed (Irish)10,514,694
10,514,69427,494Excess of Ways and Means
27,494Excess of Ways and Means10,487,200
10,487,2003,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund
3,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.
6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.
10,514,694
10,514,69427,494Excess of Ways and Means
27,494Excess of Ways and Means10,487,200
10,487,2003,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund
3,690,404Interest and Sinking Fund6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.
6,796,796l.Quota for Ireland, 6,273,966l.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.10,514,694
10,514,6944,500,000
4,500,0001,250,000Ditto in Ireland
1,250,000Ditto in Ireland3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British
3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British4,500,000Estimated Revenue
4,500,000Estimated Revenue1,514,694
1,514,694224,687
224,687191,793—Navigations
191,793—Navigations3,814—Arrear to Howth
3,814—Arrear to Howth£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt
£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt1,739,381Unappropriated Balances
1,739,381Unappropriated Balances£.£.
£.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
10,514,694
10,514,6944,500,000
4,500,0001,250,000Ditto in Ireland
1,250,000Ditto in Ireland3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British
3,250,000Loan in Great Britain, 3 millions British4,500,000Estimated Revenue
4,500,000Estimated Revenue1,514,694
1,514,694224,687
224,687191,793—Navigations
191,793—Navigations3,814—Arrear to Howth
3,814—Arrear to Howth£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt
£.£.Deduct unfunded Debt1,739,381Unappropriated Balances
1,739,381Unappropriated Balances£.£.
£.£.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.Mr. Foster
682 answered, that he had the satisfaction to state, that the regulations of the Duke of Bedford had been actually followed up. There never was a period when there was so little money left in the hands of the Collectors of Excise for contingencies; and the papers on the table would shew it. As to the post-office accounts, they had never been settled since
682Mr. Foster
683l. said, that he proposed to make several amendments to it. Where an inhabitant of a parish informed against a private still, he meant to afford the parish an opportunity of being relieved of the fine, by the parishioner giving the information consenting to acquit the parish of any claim to it. He would still, however, continue the clause for making the fine on the parish 100683l.Mr. Foster
s.s.s.l.l.687 stated, that in withdrawing his motion on the principle of the bill the other night, he did so only with a hope that the objects he had would be met in the committee, and not from being perfectly satisfied that if the bill passed into a law in its present shape, it must prove insufficient and most injurious, not only to the agricultural interests of Ireland, but to the revenue; we already had some proof of it, for by the right hon. gentleman's bill of last year, stills so small as 200 gallons were allowed to work; he could bring evidence to the bar of the house, of men of experience, new in London, that had given both 200 and 500 gallon stills a fair trial, and who really were anxious to carry on the business in Ireland in that way, and who would declare that it was impossible to carry it on, while so great an advantage as 8 and 16 per cent. was allowed to large stills; it was therefore utterly nugatory in the extreme to talk of allowing small stills to work on such terms, the consequence must be, that illicit stills will be substituted, or the farmer will be
s.s.s.l.l.687Mr. Bernard
688 said, that he held the opinion of his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer in such high veneration, that he was always ready to believe whatever he said was right, would prove to be so. He had always proved himself to be a great friend to the interests and welfare of Ireland, and he would not desert him in this instance. He said that disloyalty and illicit distillery went hand in hand over the kingdom, and that till illicit distillery was put down, disloyalty would increase. The best mode to put it down was to increase the fines, and to punish all those with severity who broke the laws: in his county the exertions of the gentlemen had proved effectual, and he knew of no illicit distillery; he had great veneration for existing esta-
688Mr. Dennis Browne
 said he was surprized to hear the hon. member say that there was no illicit distillery in the county Mayo; he lived within a few miles of that county, and had himself assisted in seizing several illicit stills last year, and he knew the trade was now very flourishing in that quarter. If the hon. member means that there is no illicit trade near Westport, he could understand him, because there was no corn there. There were nothing there but those sort of inaccessible mountains which the hon. member talked of lately as being of such great value in the county of Cavan, for scites on which to establish illegal stills.—As to the amendment of the right hon. baronet, he should certainly vote for it, and nothing could be so clear as that it would be impracticable for any one to set up a small still in the face of these bounties.Mr. French
 said he was a friend to the system of bounties, as he was to all long established systems; that he disliked all speculative plans, and new fangled inventions. The large stills were productive of great revenue, and had advanced the agricultural interests of the country to their present flourishing condition; for it was in those districts where they were established that the tillage of Ireland was most flourishing.Mr. May
 supported the Amendment.Mr. O'Hara
 contended, that it was impossible to take away the power of fining, without doing an injury to the country. There were instances of town lands being fined three times over for the same still. The informer should be rewarded, otherwise no discovery would be made.Mr. Magens
 said, that there was a law already, by which the misconduct of officers was severely punished, which rendered it unnecessary to introduce any clause to that effect into the bill. The fact was, the revenue was injured by illicit distilleries, and the morals of the people corrupted. They were arrived at such a pitch as to require severe enactments. If gentlemen did not exert themselves to put them down, the severity of the law would not be the fault; their own conduct alone would be liable to the charge of having given them encouragement.Mr. Foster
 said that the proposition was to fine the vicinity where any materials used in a distillery were discovered. He was not against fining a guilty individual, when he could be found; but it was not fit that any gentleman should be fined for offences committed while he was doing his duty in that house. That the law to prevent collusion between officers of excise and illicit distillers was not enforced was sufficiently proved by the circumstance of 375 applications having been made to fine the county of Cavan, at the quarter sessions, for illicit stills, while not one prosecution was instituted for a misdemeanor to punish collusion.Colonel Barry
 thought the proposed clause feasible; but did not approve of the manner in which it was supported.Mr. D. Browne
 was sorry that he could not agree with the right hon. baronet. The object which he conceived the legislature to have in view was, to promote the agricultural interests of Ireland. Bounties, by promoting trade, would contribute to that object, so that the hon. baronet's amendment going to take away the inducement of bounties, could not, in his opinion, be advantageous.Mr. Hutchinson
685 said, that if the clause to which the right hon. baronet objected would have the effect of suppressing the small stills, he would vote against it: no such consequence, however, in his opinion, could result. In many of the interior parts of Ireland, the only fuel they had for their stills was turf: some distinction,
685Colonel Barry
 said, that where collusion was practised by officers, he thought an immediate remedy should be sought; and that there was no occasion to put it off till next session. He should have little hesitation in proposing, that officers so offending, should be subject to double the penalty of town lands; the half of which should go to the informer, and the other half to be appropriated to some other purpose.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
676, after the able manner in which the motion was supported by his noble and honourable friends who preseded him, was determined not to enlarge
676Lord Henry Petty
d.s.686d.d.l.l.l.l.l.l. said he agreed with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland, that it was of the greatest importance to have small stills established in the country parts of Ireland, and he would therefore give his support to the amendment of the right honourable baronet, as it was the plain, direct, and he thought the only way of carrying the object into effect of putting an end to illicit distillation. To enable smaller stills to work was an object not only of importance but of necessity, for in consequence of the demand for corn arising from distillation, many tracts of country had been brought into cultivation, and if illegal stills should be put down, and none others established, that demand for corn would cease, and a check would be given to the increased and increasing cultivation of land, and perhaps these lands already reclaimed would be suffered to relapse to their former state of waste. He agreed perfectly with the right hon. gentleman, that from a variety of causes, no large stills of 1,000 or 1,500 gallons would ever be established in the country parts; but he could not agree with him in thinking, that if the amendment proposed was rejected, and if the bounties of 8d.s.686d.d.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. J. Latouche
671 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, previous to the holidays. He was, he said, perfectly sensible that it could never be the wish or intention of that house to attempt any wilful or unnecessary interference, in the interior management or regulation of the army of this country; that had by the constitution been placed in other hands; and he well knew the house would not interfere in it, but in extraordinary cases, where certain rules laid down for its most essential and vital interests were rashly or premeditately broken through. When the duke of York was made the Commander in Chief, certain Regulations were issued by his majesty, by which it was settled that no officer should be made a field-officer till he had served six years, nor a lieutenant-colonel till two years after he was made a major. The present Commander in Chief had made that regulation stricter than it was before, by extending the term to nine years. In defiance of those regulations, lord Burghersh had, on the 4th of May instant, been appointed to a majority, and in a few days afterwards made a lieutenant colonel, by which he had been put over the heads of many officers who were senior to him, and particularly the oldest captain in the regiment to which his lordship belonged, and who was five years and a half an older officer than lord Burghersh; and by his recent advancement his lordship passed over the heads of 600 officers, many of whom were in the army before lord Burghersh was born. If he had been the son of an Abercrombie or a Moore, he
671Colonel Shipley
l.l.l.l. observed, that when it was said, that the net addition to the revenue by the post-office, was 68,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Parnell
689d. said he could not permit this question to go to a vote without expressing his sentiments upon it. It appeared to him that the right hon. gent. was attempting to practise upon the house the greatest delusion that ever was heard of. He says that he is a friend to the system of small stills; that it is only by establishing small stills, that the illicit trade can be put down, and in the face of these admissions, he calls upon the house to continue bounties on large stills, which give the persons who work them an advantage of 12689d.Mr. Parnell
690 agreed that in the greatest tillage counties there were no such
690Sir J. Newport
l.l.l.l. said, that he believed the tight hon. gent. (Mr. Foster) was mistaken as to the punishment of officers for collusion. The existing laws went to punish them by a fine of 10l.l.l.l.Sir J. Newport
684d.d.d.d. said, he would confine what he had to say to an amendment, which he should now propose, for doing away the bounties of 16 and 8 per cent. on large stills of 1500 and 1000 gallons content. When the right hon. gent. tells the country gentleman of Ireland, that the existence of illicit trade is the consequence of a want of exertions on their part, he tells them what is not true, and attaches blame to them where they do not deserve it. The true cause of the illicit trade is, the great bounties on large stills equal to 1–2684d.d.d.d.Sir John Newport
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.681l.l. —Although Sir, the right hon. gent. has stated that the balances in the hands of the present collectors have decreased considerably within the last year, yet if the orders issued by the duke of Bedford, when lord-lieutenant of Ireland, in 1807, had been enforced, they would not have remained at one quarter part of the amount at which they now appear to be. The fact is, that from the period when that order was issued, the cash balances in the hands of the collectors were reduced to 33,400l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.681l.l.Sir John Newport
670 declared, that he had it in contemplation to propose some new regulations, relating to the mode of assessing the Land Tax in Ireland. By the present system, the tax was assessed by plough lands, some of which might be only of three or four hundred acres, while others contained as many as thirteen acres, so that it followed that some paid as much as two shillings an acre, where others did not pay more than as many pence. It was therefore certainly desirable to ascertain the number of acres that should be
670Sir J. Newport
675674 declared, that when he first heard of this promotion in defiance of the existing regulations, he formed a strong opinion upon it; but if he had not been before so decided upon its impropriety, the defence set up by the noble lord on that night, would fully have confirmed his opinion. The noble lord had stated that lord Burghersh's promotion did not stand in the way of the senior captain of the West India regiment, the majority of which the house had no reason to believe was now held by lord Burghersh. If that was the case, and there was no proof to the contrary, he would contend that the promotion of that noble lord to the rank of a lieutenant colonel was an act of double in-
675674Earl Temple
scire facias700 was of
scire facias700The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. professed himself willing to allow the general merits of Mr. Palmer at to the invention and execution of his plan, and the benefits he had rendered the country; but in respect to the agreements, it was to be remembered that the advantages enjoyed by Mr. Palmer in right of the situation he held, supposed a strict and faithful discharge of the duties attached to it; so far, however, from these promises being complied with by Mr. Palmer, it appeared he had acted in the most improper manner by his superiors in office; that he had endeavoured to throw the different arrangements into confusion, by encouraging the subordinate clerks to quarrel with each other; and that he had connived at frauds in the department he presided over. Under these circumstances, he conceived Mr. Palmer had partly forfeited the advantages he held. Of this he was certain from eighteen years experience, that Mr. Pitt in settling the 3,000l.Mr. Rose
703 conceived, that as there appeared to be a difference of opinion as to the wording the address between those who supported it, this circumstance should induce them to lay the proposition on the table for further consideration, in
703The Solicitor General
704 said, that all Mr. Palmer wished for was, that the Receiver General should be desired to defend the action, which he intended to bring against government, for the breach of contract entered into; and all the house was asked to do, was to admit the case to be brought forward fairly in a court of law, or equity. How, he would ask, was the dignity, the character, or the honour of that house to be compromised by its directing such a cause to be tried, even although the claimant did not succeed? It had been said by a right hon. gent. opposite, that the courts were open to every one, and that there was a legal remedy for every thing of this nature; but he had always under-
704Sir S. Romilly
 hoped that the strong personal allusions which had been made to him, would sufficiently apologise for his again rising. He denied that he had been influenced by any other motive in the parts he took in this business, than a wish to defend him who could not now defend himself, and who had been charged with gross injustice in this transaction towards Mr. Palmer. Mr. Pitt had an high opinion of Mr. Palmer's talents and services; but nothing, he was concerned to state, but Mr. Palmer's own misconduct, was the cause of his removal. At the same time he admitted, that certainly Mr. Palmer had in the beginning many difficulties to encounter, and had to contend against a teazing opposition on the part of those who did not think as highly, nor (as the event proved) as justly of the plan as Mr. Palmer did. As to the origins of Mr. Palmer and himself, he asked, if he ever had made any allusion to Mr. Palmer's origin? Never. He was incapable of such indelicacy.Mr. Rose
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer123Against it
123Against it127For the Resolution
127For the Resolution
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer123Against it
123Against it127For the Resolution
127For the Resolution711 suggested that the officers of the crown should not take advantage of the Statute of Limitations, nor of the non-liability of the public officer. This was the purport of the address; to place Mr. Palmer in a situation to try the merits of his case. He stated that he meant to propose an Amendment pursuant to this suggestion.-4Majority for Mr. Palmer
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer123Against it
123Against it127For the Resolution
127For the Resolution
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer
-4Majority for Mr. Palmer123Against it
123Against it127For the Resolution
127For the Resolution711Mr. Ponsonby
onus699698697 rose to make his promised motion and observed, that as the circumstances of Mr. Palmer's case must be so well known to the house, he should not take up their time by entering into a detail upon that subject; in consequence of being disappointed in the expectations he had formed from the votes of the house last session, as to the final decisions of his claims before parliament, Mr. Palmer had now resorted to what appeared to be the only method of obtaining that justice, to which, in common with every other subject of this kingdom, he conceived himself entitled. Previous to submitting the present motion, his first object had been to ascertain that it
onus699698697Major Palmer
710l.d.d.l.709l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.708707706705 rose again, and apologized to the house for what might appear to be unnecessarily taking up their time; but as gentlemen on the other side had not confined themselves to the expediency of the present motion, and still denied the justice of those claims which had been repeatedly acknowledged by the house; he hoped to be excused in once more replying to the various misrepresentations which had been made since he first had the honour of addressing them upon the subject. He could not help complaining, that so many gentlemen should have formed their opinions without really understanding the case. They seemed to consider Mr. Palmer in the light of any other subordinate officer in a public department, and as such to have justly incurred his dismissal. If they would be content with this, and not insist that the forfeiture of his office included his agreement for the percentage in the encreased revenue, which in justice and common sense must be considered as distinct; having on his part upon a former occasion, in order to conciliate as much as possible the general feeling of the house, given up the salary, to which the whole of the committee with the exception of only one hon. member, a strenuous advocate for the rest of the claim, had declared Mr. Palmer to be entitled to; he should not now say a word on the subject, but as the forfeiture of both had been insisted on, it became necessary to defend both. Considering Mr. Palmer as a mere subordinate officer, whatever opinion he might have had of his own merits or the demerits of the Postmaster general, having the authority they were justified in dismissing him. But the hon. member hoped to place Mr. Palmer's conduct and situation in a very different point of view, and from the sentiments he had lately heard expressed on all sides the house, he trusted the attempt would not be
710l.d.d.l.709l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.708707706705Major Palmer
 was of opinion, that it would be unbecoming the dignity of the house if they were to address his majesty upon the subject, unless the affair could be regularly entered into in a court of law; it appeared that this could not be done, even if the impediments complained of were removed. Mr. Palmer, it was supposed, had forfeited all pretence to a claim of right, by his own misfeasence; taking the case as such, the address itself if agreed to, would become a mere nullity.—He conceived Mr. Palmer's best claim would be upon the liberality of the house; however he professed if it could be made out that the case was capable of being received, and decided upon in the courts, he should be ready to give it all the support it should teem to deserve.Mr. Stephen
 was of opinion, that nothing could be more fair than the modes of proceedure proposed by the hon. gent. who brought forward the motion. The question as to Mr. Palmer's claim had been frequently discussed in that house, and decided upon by large majorities, and as he could not avail himself of these decisions he was willing to remove his cause into another court. In respect to the impossibility of bringing it before a Jury in a tangible shape, that would be proved when it was brought into court; at any rate, after all that had past, it would be only consistent in the house to remove all impediments as far as in them lay.Mr. Fuller
 defended the evidence he had given before the committees of the house, and affirmed that he had never varied from, any evidence or opinion delivered by him on this subject. There never was an agreement with Mr. Palmer, which did not include the discharge of his official duties. Mr. Palmer had misconducted himself in his office, and had therefore violated the agreement. At the same time he acknowledged the merits of Mr. Palmer.Mr. Long
701 said, that the motion did not go to direct an issue; it only went to the removal of an impediment; this was a contract entered into with his majesty's government, and his majesty was addressed to prevent the person against whom the action was to be brought, from pleading the nonliability of the public officer, unless this was done, Mr. Palmer would be nonsuited, without the merits of the case being at all entered into.—With regard to the proceedings of a court of law, that had nothing to do with the question; if the motion was agreed to, and Mr. Pal-
701Mr. W. Adam
 thought the house bound to enforce by agreeing to the motion, that justice they had already admitted by their former votes upon the subject. The crown was not called on to abandon its prerogative, but merely to forbear in this instance; a forbearance neither unusual or unfrequent, and this was all that was asked, namely, that if that house would not enforce its own decisions, to let the cause go before another tribunal. He could see no danger to the prerogative by agreeing to the motion, but much to the dignity of that house by refusing it.Mr. Windham
702 observed, that the simple question was, whether an agreement entered into between Mr. Pitt and Mr. Palmer should be abided by? It was monstrous to suppose, that a bargain which would bind an individual, should not be held equally sacred in respect to the government of the country. It was true that the agreement was only a verbal one with the ministers, but if that would not hold good, he for his part would much sooner take the note of a common swindler in the street. 'A tangible shape' had lately become a fashionable phrase, and all that was asked upon the present occasion was to put this agreement into one.—It was argued, that the Receiver General was an improper person to bring the action against, because he was not a party in the agreement; the fact was, Mr. Pitt, who absolutely made the agreement, being deceased, the Receiver General was selected as the person to whom the revenue was paid, and consequently the fittest person to sue on the occasion. The action was in fact, against the public purse, and against that particular branch of the revenue which Mr. Palmer had created, and out of which he had been faithfully promised his hard-earned reward. He should certainly support the motion, although he should have preferred
702Sir T. Turton
l.l.l.l.l.l. presented, pursuant to leave given, a bill for the relief of Insolvent Debtors in England. The hon. baronet expatiated at some length upon the necessity for this bill, in the miseries long sustained, and still suffered, by the unfortunate persons for whose relief it was intended. The prisons in every part of the kingdom were crowded by those unfortunate persons, in the aggregate proportion of five to three, compared to the number of prisoners for debt at the passing of the last insolvent bill. The prisons of the metropolis especially were crowded almost beyond example; in so much, that in one prison there were no less than thirteen persons crowded into a room, only fifteen feet by sixteen square, and in no room of that prison were there less than three at this hot season of the year; so that, in fact, the passing of such a bill was not only a measure of humanity and justice, but of sound policy. The bill was, as nearly as was consistent with its objects, a transcript of the last insolvent bill. He was aware it was at best but a temporary and palliative measure towards alleviating that system of misery and oppression which had so loug subsisted under our statute law, namely imprisonment for debt, which was a disgrace to our civil code, and ought to be abolished altogether; a consummation, he hoped, ere long, to see effected. The principal difference in the present bill from the last was, to extend the limitation of debt, up to which prisoners were to be relieved, from 1500l.l.l.l.l.l.Sir Thomas Turton
715714 rose, pursuant to notice, to submit certain motions, with regard to persons accused, committed, discharged, convicted, or punished for particular offences in this country for a certain period. The object of his motions, the hon. and learned gent, stated to be preparatory to a measure which he had had some time in contemplation, to propose for the amendment of our Criminal Law, with a view to diminish its severity, and at the same time, to ensure the certainty of punishment. In looking into the practice, he found that it was at vari-
715714Sir S. Romilly
 stated, that it would be difficult if not impossible, from the nature of the returns in the Secretary of State's office, to make out certain pans of the returns required by the learned gentleman. He therefore suggested to the learned gentleman, the propriety of withdrawing those parts of his motion which related to the several gradations between committal, conviction, and execution, which from the kind of returns sent into the office by the several jailors, could not be made out; nor could a return be made as to the period of the embarkation of transports. With regard to the hulks, he was enabled to say that very salutary alterations had been made in their conduct, and he had himself ordered inquiry to be made, with a view to some farther regulations, which he hoped would, particularly under the superintendance of the present inspector, Mr. Graham, operate to remove the evils complained of.Mr. C. Jenkinson
716 adverting to the notice of a motion which he gave last sessions, with regard to the state of New South Wales, observed, that he had not redeemed his pledge, because he was induced to calculate upon the introduction of some measure on the part of his majesty's ministers, who had the opp6rtunity of being much better informed, and the power of enforcing the arrangements, which were obviously necessary to amend the civil establishment of this colony. Recent events in New South Wales should urge ministers to take this business into their most serious consideration, and it was the duty of parliament to inquire into the grievances complained of by our fellow subjects at so great a distance. Indeed, it ought to be the policy of both government and the legislature to take up this inquiry, in order that a colony, the extension of which no one could anticipate, should be attached to the mother country, by the interests which we manifested in its concerns. He would, from these considerations, bring the matter forward at an early period of the next sessions, if mi-
716Mr. Abercrombie,
 stated, that a most competent person had been sent out as governor of New South Wales, invested with ample powers to correct any defects which might appear in the system of its government, and also to investigate the cause of the events which had recently took place in that colony. Those events could not be ascribed to any degree of inattention on the part of ministers, who, as soon as the necessary information should be received from the colony, would take care that such measures should be adopted as circumstances should appear to require.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he should not follow the example set him, by going into the question of Parliamentary Reform, but should merely touch upon the motives which induced him to think this bill should be allowed to go into a committee. A more imperfect bill he had never before read, and more objectionable clauses were never before put upon paper, and therefore as he had no objection to the discussion of the principle adopted by his hon. colleague, he should wish it to be committed, in order that it might be more fully discussed and amended. He was sure that if this were a question for the third reading of such a bill, he should give it a hearty negative.Mr. Spencer Stanhope
727 declared, that doctrines so novel and extraordinary had lately been introduced into that house; doctrines so subversive of every sound principle of the constitution of parliament that he was altogether at a loss how to discuss them. He stood in a situation unprecedented in the history of the country, for he had not to address the Representatives of the Commons in parliament assembled; that title they had disclaimed by the avowal and defence of their corruption; but he was about to speak to an assembly composed of some representing the Treasury; some the Admiralty; some their patrons; some their own money; and a few representing populous places; an assembly constituted under a system resembling the fortuitous concourse of the atoms of Epicurus. Under these circumstances, he felt himself somewhat at a loss what to say; but in justice to the large body whom he represented, he thought it his duty to raise his voice and reprobate doctrines the most abominable that had ever been avowed since England was England. Much had been said of the dignity of that house; but if they were not Representatives of the people, where was its dignity?—The present debate had been opened, on a former night, by an hon. gentleman opposite, (Mr. George Johnstone) whom he did not then see in his place, in the most extraordinary manner, and upon the most extravagant ground, that had ever been avowed by any member of parliament. That hon. member had attempted to justify the present mode of sending members to that house, by comparing it with the abuses and corruptions of former periods: he had, for the purpose of covering the disgrace incurred by the late transactions in that house, even gone the length of avowing, that the British parliament had been formerly in the pay of a French monarch. To what particular period the hon. gentleman alluded, he knew not; nor upon what, information he grounded his statement. He might perhaps have had in view that period of the reign of Charles 2nd, when a British sovereign was not proof against the temptation of French gold, and the important fortress of Dunkirk had been sold for a sum of money. But he would ask that hon. gentleman, whether, in his charges against
727Sir Francis Burdett
733732The Rehearsal:731730729728 then observed, that he was perfectly aware of the impartiality of the Speaker's conduct on this as well as on other occasions; but he would recollect, that until the 12th of this month of May, the claim of the house to be called the House of Commons was founded on its assumed purity. He admitted, however, the necessity of some rules to guide the proceedings; and the Speaker, no doubt, spoke from the remembrance of former periods. But, then, he must allow that he (sir F. Burdett,) spoke in a situation and under circumstances entirely new.—The hon. baronet then resumed his argument, and said, that the hon. gentleman (Mr. G. Johnstone) had boasted of the purity of the present Assembly, by comparing it with what the House of Commons was during the existence of the South Sea scheme. But the hon. gentleman had forgotten to state, that the members who had been detected in that instance were expelled the house, and punished in various ways; and that the commons then had purged off the baser matter. (Hear! hear!) Now, however, they seemed to want the instinct of brutes. Wolves would not allow certain animals to herd with them, and yet they could sit there and associate with ministers and others who had practised corruption, and had even the effrontery to acknowledge it. In order to prove the purity and dignity of the house
733732The Rehearsal:731730729728Sir Francis Burdett
773 said, of two dangers he would prefer that which was most open and avowed. When Mr. Horne Tooke presented his petition to that house, the statements it contained were not credited, though now they were admitted to be true. He thought the house ought to take notice of practices, which, to whatever degree they might have existed, had never been till lately avowed. The right hon.
773Mr. Bathurst
l.l. said, the bill had been opposed because it did not sufficiently further a parliamentary reform on the one hand, and for a contrary reason on the other. If he gave 5,000l.l.Lord Porchester
 said, that he had not used the particular expression to which Mr. Tierney had alluded; that he could not answer for the correctness of the reporter, and that, for any expression which he really did use, he would be personally responsible.Sir F. Burdett
 also supported the motion, and pledged himself to join the advocates for a parliamentary reform, whenever it should be brought forward.Sir R. Milbank
777 observed, that from the tone which the debate had assumed, he should look upon himself a traitor to his opinion, and a coward with respect to his duty, if he omitted to state the impressions upon his mind. He was certainly not prepared to go the length of the hon. baronet (sir F.
777Mr. Lyttleton
 called the hon. baronet to order.The Speaker
 said, that it was his duty to call any Member to order who affirmed that this was not the House of Commons; and he would do so as long the house supported him (Hear, hear!).The Speaker
 submitted, whether, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, the hon. baronet might not deny that this was properly the House of Commons, since, by the openly avowed and defended corruptions, the house itself appeared to have disclaimed that title,Lord Archibald Hamilton
 hoped the house would feel itself pledged to consider this subject, and particularly how far the experiment of transportation upon our criminal law had been successful.Mr. Horner
776775774 said, if the design of die noble lord who had just sat down was to prove himself an honest man, he might just as well have remained silent, for certain persons would never think either him or any one else so, who did not acquiesce in all the chimeras of the hon. baronet (Hear! hear!). It was the design of him and his friends to excite such an opinion among the people; and he believed, in his soul, it was also their wish not to have many supporters in that house, lest their
776775774Mr. Tierney
 denied having ever said that he had a plan to liquidate the Income Tax; he had said that he had plans of economy by which many millions of the public money might, be saved; and these he was ready and willing to produce.Mr. Wardle
 said, that before the end of the session he should state the grounds upon which he had formed the opinion contained in the assertion alluded to by the hon. gent. In order to prove that assertion, it would be necessary for him to move for voluminous papers, which he could not expect to be produced before the close of the present session.Mr. Wardle
784783782781780779778 rose and said:—Mr. Speaker; in rising after the house has been so exhausted, and after the able discussion which has taken place, it would be presumptuous in me to think of detaining them long if my strength would permit of it. In justice to myself and the important measure which a sense of duty could alone have induced me to bring forward, I have
784783782781780779778Mr. Curwen
 moved the order of the day, for resuming the adjourned debate, on the bill for the prevention of the sale of Seats in parliament.—The Speaker explained, that the question was, that he do now leave the chair.Mr. Curwen
734l. was astonished that a gentleman should depreciate the liberty of his country, at a time when he was making one of the freeest speeches that had ever past the lips of man. With respect to being a real representative of the people, he certainly had as much right to call himself so as the hon. baronet; for he had never bribed the county of Middlesex, and thrown away 70,000734l.Mr. Fuller
 rose, merely to put a question to an hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle). That hon. gent. had asserted without doors, and had repeated the assertion in the house that night, that a sum of eleven millions had been added to the taxes, in consequence of the corruptions and abuses of that house. His object in rising, was to ask whether the hon. gent, had given notice of any motion upon the subject; and, if he had not, to press upon him the necessity of giving such a notice, which might lead to a decision upon that point, before the close of the present session.Mr. Barham
 was disposed to allow the bill to go into the committee, because the many objections that applied to it in its present shape; might be removed in the committee.Mr. William Adam
726725724 differed in sentiments from those, who had spoken before him; he thought that property and power should invariably be connected together, for without that connection, no peace could be maintained in society. Corruption, influence, and property, were as closely connected as usury and money. Formerly, the taking of interest for money was invariably denominated usury, and it was not till after the lapse of many years, that the proper line was drawn in regard to that most important article, the loan of money and the recognition of a legal rate of interest, in a commercial country. Now the same mistake seemed to have taken place in regard to influence and money, as formerly in regard to interest and usury. Property must necessarily give a person influence, and the latter would naturally tend to procure returns of members to parliament. The landed interest was no doubt the great leading interest; but there were other interests which should have the opportunity of obtaining seats, to a certain extent, in that house, as they could render essential service to the country, by expressing their opinions there, even as connected with their own interest. Some individuals objected to the state of representation, because some small places sent an equal number of members to parliament as larger ones; but it would, upon examination, be found, that great advantage arose to the country by, this being the case. Most of the small boroughs sent to parliament merchants, and gentlemen of the army and navy, who otherwise could not get seats in that house. Those who adverted to the great advantages of commerce to the country, and the dangers
726725724Mr. Davies Giddy
723722721 said he concurred with the right hon. bart. who had just spoken, in regard to what he had said, relative to anarchical reform differing from parliamentary Reform, for the latter was a reform that took place in parliament, itself, and carried into execution by the collective wisdom of the nation. He should not, however, scruple in saying, that, unless he believed that the measure under consideration would lead to something further, as he hoped it would, he should not even vote for its going into a committee. He was of opinion that, amongst the electors of this country, even amongst those best constituted, there was infinitely more corruption than any man wishing well to the country could desire to contemplate; and if that corruption were corrected, much would be done with regard to reform in parliament. It was a mere mockery, a gross and insulting mockery to say, that they shall not sell their votes one by one, when one individual was allowed to sell them all in the gross. He had no doubt that the hon. gent, who brought this measure forward, was actuated by the best intentions, as he thought it would be no inconsiderable step towards rectifying that degree of corruption to which parliament had sunk. But his own objection to the measure was, that it did not cut up that corruption by the roots but only lopped off a few branches from the worst parts of the constitution of parliament. The bill provided that every man
723722721Mr. William Smith
 bore testimony to the discretion, firmness, and judgment of the officer alluded to by the noble lord, than whom a more eligible person could not have been selected for the purpose. Indeed it came within his knowledge, that this officer was previously quite unknown to the noble lord, and selected only in consequence of his fitness for the appointment. The hon. gent, also testified to the qualifications of Mr. Graham, who would, he had no doubt, introduce every practicable improvement into the system of the hulks.Mr. Wilberforce
736735 could not consent that the admirable constitution of this country should be founded on open and avowed corruption, and was unable to understand the distinction between corruption in the gross and in detail. Why should a man be punished for selling a single vote, when he who sold the whole escaped? He should not say, that he observed no utility to result from the present system. It was often pleasing to the great Author of all, to produce good from evil; but though we saw that the effect of the evil had been mitigated, it could furnish no argument, upon the ground of political expediency, to justify and to defend it. He must also disapprove of the conduct of the hon. baronet, upon whom he called to acknowledge, whether it was fair in him, while he contended for the doing away of abuses upon the one hand, to enter into an abuse of the constitution upon the other? If such things were acknowledged to exist, as had been acknowledged lately, and if they still suffered and tolerated them, after they had been published to the world, could they not see what an effect must be produced upon the morals of the people at large? Sure he was, that in the times, and under the circumstances in which they lived, they should consider well before they gave their sanction to such abuses. It constituted one of the multitude of blessings enjoyed in this most happy country, and under this constitution, so speculatively and practically beneficial, that free discussion was permitted, the liberty of the press established, and the means of political information generally diffused. But this blessing, at the same time that it was such a source of pride, should also be a source of caution; it should make them careful to correct those faults, which, though they might not be injurious in other countries, must be peculiarly so in this, from the rapidity with which they were circulated, and the freedom with which they were discussed. As Gulliver saw blemishes in the most beautiful females of Brobdignag, so public affairs were here regarded with a microscopic eye, and the slightest defects perceived. These abuses could not with
736735Mr. Wilberforce
malum in se.772notOh just beloved and lost, admired and mourned!771770769768767766765764763762761stratamedia,commands,760759758757756mutatis mutandis,755nostrum,754laudare diversa sequentes,ut illâ contend vivantqui fit Mecœnas,753752751750749748747746745havehave744743742741740739738737 rose and said:—Sir; I am well satisfied to have heard, before I address you, the speeches of the two hon. gentlemen who have last sat down, as those speeches will have helped to recall our attention to the question more immediately before us, from which the speech of the hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett) had in some measure led us away, though not to any topics, which I mean to describe, or which I wish the house to consider, as unconnected with the subject. Those topics are indeed most closely connected with it, as they are in themselves also of a nature and character, to which I must not fail hereafter to advert, and with which the house will I hope be duly impressed.malum in se.772notOh just beloved and lost, admired and mourned!771770769768767766765764763762761stratamedia,commands,760759758757756mutatis mutandis,755nostrum,754laudare diversa sequentes,ut illâ contend vivantqui fit Mecœnas,753752751750749748747746745havehave744743742741740739738737Mr. Windham
720719718 rose and spoke as follows:—Sir, I have always thought the subject now under consideration to be at any time of the greatest importance to this country. I think it to be particularly so at a period such as the present. I have always been anxious that Reform should originate in this house; considering, that within these walls it could best be effected, and with the best and most happy consequences. I have ever been anxious, that we should afford no pretext for complaint against us, to those without doors; and for this purpose I have supported measures which seemed likely to produce so desirable an object, by giving full effect to the spirit of the Grenville Act. To make regulations for the direction of its conduct, or the reform of its defects, is a privilege which this house constitutionally possesses, and which it has often beneficially exercised. I need only refer to the recent case of Aylesbury, in which this house asserted its own dignity, in which the members of this house shewed themselves worthy of being the protectors and representatives of a great people, by proving that this house is ever eager to apply a remedy to the abuses that appear before it. I conceive the present measure to be of the same nature, or nearly so with that, only this is intended as a means of preventing the recurrence of those evils in future, rather than of punishing or remedying the past. In that case, such was the corruption proved by the evidence before our committee to have existed, that the votes of the electors were openly bought and
720719718Sir John Newport
 spoke shortly in favour of the motion.Lord Milton
786s.d.s. said, that the British salt was made by the operation of fire, and what was called bay salt was made by the operation of the sun. The British salt was employed only prior to the packing of the beef, and the bay salt in the packing, so that there were no sort of competition in the Irish market between the two kinds of salt, as they were both employed for different purposes, or at least in different branches of the art of salting beef; the British salt would not be fit in packing the beef, because that kind of salt having undergone the process of boiling would be apt in warm countries to melt and slip from between the interstices of the beef, and so fail in the object of keeping the beef; in fact, what had made the Irish beef so famous in different quarters of the world for keeping so well in any climate, was the virtue of the bay salt with which it had been cured. The bay salt had been formerly 80 pounds to the bushel, while the British salt was but 56 pounds to the bushel, so much as to the inequality of the duties, since the measures of each bushel were rated at 56 pounds, and then the duties were on the one 1786s.d.s.Mr. Foster
 agreed with the right hon. gent. who had just spoken, on the propriety of postponing to the beginning of next session a question of such importance.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, in explanation, that he was aware that an atttempt had been made in Lymington to make bay salt, and that it had failed. He said, that it was called bay salt, because made by being exposed to the sun in inlets or bays in Portugal.Mr. Foster
 said, that he trusted his hon. friend who brought forward this motion would now be satisfied that it had met with as favourable a reception from his right hon. friend near him as circumstances could possibly admit of. He hoped, therefore, that the motion would not at present be pressed any farther, with understanding that the question would meet with every attention from that house early in the next session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
789 said, that certainly owing to the inadequacy of their salaries, an universal system of corruption had formerly existed among the revenue officers of Ireland, and that out of 32 excise officers examined by the commissioners of inquiry, 30 of them had confessed that they had received similar presents. They justified it from its being a constant practice, and known to be so by the board who employed them, and who yet took no measures to stop it. The practice of receiving these gratuities was so universal, and so
789Mr. Foster
 thought nothing could bring the house into greater contempt than passing over so lightly such a flagrant case as had been now stated. Who could believe that it was utterly impossible to find a single honest man to fill any office in the Irish revenue? If the revenue officers were so corrupt from bottom to top, they should be all removed, and honest men sought for. If men in high situation had known of their frauds, and connived at them, they should also be dismissed. He had heard with infinite pleasure, that his majesty had been advised to annul a commission granted to a noble lord (lord Burghersh). He hoped he would also be advised to annul this appointment.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that he had never in his life heard such doctrines gravely stated, as might be deduced from what had fallen from an hon. gent. (Mr. Croker). If a man's salary was not sufficient, was that an excuse for his taking bribes, and conniving at all manner of frauds against the government which employed him? As to the ridicule which the hon. gent. appeared to throw out against those pure and abstract patriots, who would not consider the necessity of providing meat, drink, or clothing for themselves and families a sufficient excuse, he would say that it never was allowed as an excuse for dishonest actions. If it were, any person indicted at the Old Bailey for a robbery would say it was only for the purpose of getting meat, drink, and clothing for himself and family. Such an excuse would not be admitted at that place. If the salaries of these places were not sufficient, did any body oblige these men to become excisemen? He must therefore support the original motion, as he conceived the promotion of such a person highly improper.Sir Samuel Romilly
791 did not think his hon. friend (Mr. Croker) had maintained the general proposition that the hon. and learned gent. imputed to him. It was to be considered that in this particular case, when all the excise-officers in Ireland had been in the habit of taking certain regular presents from the distillers, it would have been impossible to dismiss them all at once, as although that might be good in the way of example, yet it would be a sacrifice of the revenues of Ireland for two years. If it were not contended that all the revenue officers of Ireland should be dismissed, there was no reason why the best of them should not be promoted. This man, although he had taken money as others did, yet in other respects he did his duty. The cause, however, of this great corruption had now been removed by the increase of the officers' salaries, and the act might in future be strictly enforced. The act was of a prospective and not of a retrospective
791The Chancellor of the Exchequer
796s.795 expressed his surprise at hearing such an opposition to this motion, as the former one had been opposed upon the ground of there being a want of sufficient information. With respect to exciting dangerous expectations in the minds of the people of Ireland, by the measure proposed, he could assure the right hon. gent. that they could only be excited by the continuance of the present system, and he was persuaded the inquiry would have quite an opposite tendency. There were parts of Ireland where the most serious disturbances had been excited within these last two years, upon this very subject; and he was sorry to say, such had been the case in that very part which he had the honour to represent. He was convinced the right hon. gent. when he became acquainted with the actual state of the Tithes in Ireland, would retract his opinion and sentiments in a future session. There were many abuses existing there, which did not exist here. From the sentiments generally expressed in the house upon a former night, he was sure that an inquiry would be the best preliminary to
796s.795Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
797 said, it would be highly satisfactory to know at what period government would think fit to make any inquiry, or adopt any measure upon this subject. Last session the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, he had even gone the length of preparing a bill to remedy these evils; but this session he said it was so full of difficulties, that he had neither bill to propose, nor any measure to adopt. When his hon. friend (Mr. Parnell) moved for leave to bring in a bill, the previous question was moved, for the want of information; no information was yet procured, and now the house were told it was unnecessary.—The time was not far distant when that right hon. gent. and all others would find that information, as to Ireland, was indispensably necessary. The system of tithes was a subject of great importance, and surrounded with great difficulties, but not such as were wholly insuperable. The arguments used against adopting this measure, were the best reasons in the world for taking it immediately into consideration.—The longer it was deferred, the more was Ireland exposed to calamities and difficulties of every kind. Why did the right hon. gent. not take some step in the interval, since last session, to procure the information he wanted? Why did he now say, that on account of the difficulties and importance of the subject, he should take no step at all?—The subject was of such vital importance for the tranquillity of Ireland, as well as of this country, that he hoped his hon. friend would take the sense of the house upon it, and that government would not meet the house with the same ignorance next session as they did upon this one. As to exciting dangerous expectations, how could it be supposed
797Mr. Ponsonby
 did not think that the house were in ignorance with respect to the subject of tithes in Ireland; but he conceived that the difficulty was how to find out a practical mode of securing the property of the church. He had never objected to the former motion of the hon. member, on account of the want of information; but he objected to it, because it was not a measure, capable of being adopted for the reasons he then gave. He had not been remiss in making inquiries, and had even produced a plan, which however he afterwards found it necessary to abandon, as it appeared it could not have the effect desired. He could not be persuaded that any inquiry, either by commission or committee, would do any good, for they did not want information, but they wanted merely a plan of how to get the better of the difficulties they knew to exist.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that he knew of no pledge whatever that was made either by Mr. Pitt or himself, upon the subject of tithes, or upon the Catholic question. He should most distinctly deny that he ever had made any pledge as to Ireland.Lord Castlereagh
799 supported the motion, and in strong terms deprecated the conduct of the noble lord opposite (Castlereagh), as to Ireland. He looked upon that noble lord as the parent of the Union, and he, in order to effect it, had made many promises; but whenever any question, as to the amelioration of the situation of Ireland came to be agitated, he either put a negative upon it, or moved the previous question. If the noble lord thought he should be handed down to posterity, either for private virtue, or public political conduct, he (Mr. H.) must beg leave to be of a contrary opinion. [Here was a cry of Order! order! and the Speaker interfered and observed, that it was irregular to allude to the private character of any individual of that house.] If (continued Mr. H.) the whole of the country were to stand up in support of that noble lord's conduct, he should be proud in standing single, and stating that he had grossly discharged that public duty which he owed to that country, called Ireland.
799The Hon. C. H. Hutchinson
 would not object to the motion, but could not help expressing a wish that the subject had been rather referred for inquiry to the board of officers, which being constituted by parliament, had the power of obtaining the fullest and most satisfactory information applicable to a case of this nature.The Secretary at War
l. was surprized at the unqualified assertion, that upon the article of bark alone, the sum of 15,000l.Mr. Rose
l. would not hesitate to state, that if the hon. gent. was in possession of information that 100,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, after a few prefatory remarks, with regard to the propriety of satisfying this country and America also, as to the conduct of our government upon the subject of recent transactions, in which the commercial interest of the country and the character of its government was so deeply involved, observed, that he had understood it to have been alleged by the highest authority, that our ambassador was authorised by his instructions to conclude the arrangements which government had lately refused to ratify. In order, therefore, that parliament and the public should fully understand the case, he felt it his duty to move an Address to his majesty, praying for copies of the Notes which passed between our ambassador and the government of the United States, respecting the repeal of our Orders in Council of January and November 1807; also for copies of the Instructions transmitted to our ambassador, authorizing him to enter into a negotiation, and to conclude an arrangement upon this subject.Mr. Marryatt
803 observed, that although upon a former occasion, when asked, whether it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to make any communication to parliament respecting our relations with America, he answered, that it
803Mr. Secretary Cunning
 thought that as the alleged proceeding of our ambassador was so very extraordinary, it would be right, in order fully to understand and fairly to judge of the case, that any justification or attempt at justification, sent home by this ambassador, should be also laid before the house, together with the papers referred to in the motion. He was not aware that any such paper as he alluded to was in existence, but if it was, and the right hon. gent. had no very urgent reason for resisting the production of it, he should much wish to have it laid on the table, and to know whether the right hon. gent. had any objection to do so.Mr. Ponsonby
 declined for the present decisively to answer the right hon. gent.'s question. When the papers moved for were laid before the house, the right hon. gent. would then be better qualified to decide whether any, and what further papers, were necessary.Mr. Secretary Canning
 begged not to be understood as refusing the paper required by the noble lord. He only deferred deciding upon the proposition to produce it.—In answer to a question from lord Milton, Mr. Canning stated, that the expectation to be formed as to the conduct of the American government towards our trade, must depend upon the existence of a correspondent disposition on the part of that government, to that manifested here upon the occasion which gave rise to the discussion. But in fact, what arrangement might be made by that government, must be, he observed, at present mere matter of speculation, of which any other man could form an opinion as well as himself.Mr. Canning
 (secretary for Ireland) opposed the motion, upon the ground, that before they went the length of addressing the king to appoint commissioners to make such inquiries they should first be satisfied, that some practicable measure could be proposed and adopted, to remedy the evils complained of, and acknowledged to exist, in regard to the buying of Tithes. It would only tend to raise the expectations of the people, while they could not realise them. The hon. gent. must be aware, that the feelings and passions of many individuals were already too much alive upon this subject throughout every district in Ireland; besides, the house were not at present deprived of information upon Irish subjects. It might as well be said, that they could not legislate as to the Tithes of Scotland, without instituting an inquiry; whereas it was well known that a law was lately passed relative thereto, merely upon the statement of those acquainted with that country. He doubted of the expediency of the mode of inquiry proposed, and also of its necessity, as sufficient information could be derived from gentlemen connected with Ireland.Mr. R. S. Dundas
, in explanation, said, he never meant to convey any other opinion, than that this was a subject highly worthy of the consideration of parliament. He thought, however, that the inquiry proposed at the present time was altogether unnecessary.Mr. Dundas
 defended the promotion, on the ground of its being necessary to select for promotion persons in the service of the revenue; and that it would have been absolutely impossible to have dismissed them all.Mr. R. S. Dundas
 conceived with his right hon. friend, that it was essentially necessary to a just comprehension of the subject under consideration, that the reasons assigned by our ambassador for concluding the arrangement alluded to, should be laid before the house. He therefore hoped, that if it were consistent with his public duty the right hon. gent. would not withhold this information. Many occasions occurred in war to justify a departure from positive instructions; so in a diplomatic mission circumstances might arise to furnish a similar justification. Possibly, such was the case in this instance, and the paper required by his right hon. friend was necessary to enable the house to form a correct judgment. Indeed, it was almost indispensible, and therefore, unless it was produced, he must disapprove of an attempt to bring forward what he could not help considering as partial information.Lord H. Petty
787 said, that England had been on all occasions bounteous and indulgent towards Ireland, in giving her every fair advantage in her trade; and that if it was made out that the British salt was as effectual in curing provisions as the foreign salt, he thought Ireland should not object to the equalization of the duties. The bay salt was the cargo under which brandy in general was smuggled: and perhaps it might be owing to this method of disguising smuggling that the gentlemen in Ireland were able to drink such good wines. He had often been indebted to them for a very hospitable portion of their excellent wines; and
787General Tarleton
 spoke shortly in favour of the motion. He expressed his surprize at what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that a man should be continued in office who had been found guilty of corruption. He for his own part thought that a more flagrant abuse of power was never heard of; a more unblushing breach of purity, he was certain, never till then appeared before that house, and as such he thought it his duty to give it his decided reprobation.Mr. Horner
l.801 rose to bring forward his promised motion upon this subject. The supply of the army with proper medicine and medical aid was, he was observed, a matter of so much importance, that he could not conceive it possible to raise a doubt, as to the propriety of making it the subject of parliamentary investigation, where any ground for complaint appeared. That such ground existed was manifest from the Report upon the table. For in this Report it was stated, that out of 20,000 men employed in expeditions to the West Indies, no less than 13,000 were the victims of disease; one-third owed their death to the ignorance of their medical men. But this was not the only ground of complaint which
l.801Mr. Wardle
l.802l. repeated his assertion with respect to the charge for bark, correcting, however, the misconception of the right hon. gent.; as he only staled 15,000l.802l.Mr. Wardle
 thought that the Commission of Inquiry proposed would not have the desired effect, as it bad been generally found that such commissions were inadequate to the objects in view, and rather tended to discourage the adoption of a measure than otherwise. Even although such a commission were to deliver in a report, he should not be disposed to reckon it binding. He had seen many commissions appointed by the crown, but they had been found never to go to the root of the evil, and rather tended to recommend a feeble than an effectual measure. He thought that it would be better to move, next session, that a committee be appointed, and that the loss of this motion would not embarrass that one.Mr. Grattan
 proceeded at some length to comment upon the inequality of the Duties imposed upon the importation of British and foreign salts into Ireland, which he contended went to discourage the efforts of the British manufacturer, by giving an undue advantage to the foreign market. He admitted the excellence of the Bay salt, but insisted that the British Salt would with proper encouragement very shortly arrive at a comparative degree of excellence. The British manufacturer had a right to every encouragement from Ireland, and he thought this would be best done by an equalization of the duties. He concluded by moving, That the house do resolve itself to-morrow into a Committee, for the purpose of considering the propriety of equalizing the Duties on British and Foreign Salts, imported into Ireland.General Gascoyne
l.l. said, that it was sufficient proof of the corruption of some of the revenue officers that they were alive; for if they had trusted to their salaries, they must have starved. The salaries were settled in the reign of Charles II. and were but 40l.l.Mr. Croker
792 said, there was one argument which ought to make the house cautious in what way they dealt with this mo-
792Mr. Barham
790l. said, that without pretending to those abstract ideas of perfection, he would still say, that although he had before heard a system of bribery and corruption avowed, he never did suppose that such a scene of bribery and corruption as this could ever have been justified or excused. It appeared from the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry, that the frauds committed on the Irish revenue by the licensed distillers amounted in a year to 856,000790l.Mr. Peter Moore
 entered into a chemical analysis of the nature of salt, and shewed, that the slower the process of drying the salt the slower the evaporation, the stronger the salt, and, that of course, if the process by fire was contrived to be as gradual as that by the sun, he did not see that the salt made by the fire, might not be as serviceable as the foreign bay salt.Mr. Jacob
794793 rose to move for the appointment of commissioners to enquire into the state of Tithes in Ireland. He said that he was authorised to consider the opinion of the house as favourable to an alteration in the system, inconsequence of the sentiments which were expressed by those who had opposed his former motion. The grounds upon which that was negatived were, because in the opinion of some members this period of the session was too late to entertain a specific plan, and because in the opinion of others there was a want of information on the subject. To meet the objections of the first description, he intended to bring forward a plan for a commutation of Tithes early next session, and to remove the objections arising from a want of information, he now moved for a commission. He said that a commission was preferable to a select committee of the house, because if we were to wait till the next session to appoint a committee, which would be necessary, nearly a whole year would be lost in making the inquiry, and besides a committee if appointed, could not well, sitting here, obtain the information which was wanted. Whereas a commission could proceed upon the enquiry immediately; and an inquiry to be made by persons appointed by the crown would be more agreeable to the body whose interests were immediately concerned, than an enquiry made by a committee of this house; and in this, as in all other respects concerning the mode of
794793Mr. Parnell
800 said, in reply to the assertion of the right hon. gent. that a want of information had not been laid as a ground of objection to his former motion, that he could appeal to the recollection of several members now present, whether the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had not distinctly stated as the reason which induced him to negative that motion through want of information on the subject which prevailed in the house. If there was any doubt upon this point, he said it was cleared up by the absence of that right hon. gent., for he had a right to infer, that he was absent because he could not vote with his colleagues on this motion, in consistency with the opinion which he had given on the former motion. In answer to what the right hon. gent. had said, of his appearing not to be aware of the difficulties which attended the plan which he recently proposed, because he had not replied to the objections which he had urged to it, he said that the reply made to those objections by a right hon. friend of his, rendered it unnecessary for him to do so. He had said, that the plan of enabling incumbents to make leases for twenty-one years was a plan of no detail and of no difficulty. The fact was, that nothing would have been so easy as to have secured the successor to the incumbent making the leases against injury, because it would only have been necessary to have adopted the same regulations as those under which all tenants for life under settlements are controled in making leases of their lands, and then the situation of the successor to the incumbent making leases, would have been exactly the same as the situation of tenant in remainder under the established law. With regard to what the right hon. gent. had said about no inquiry being necessary, and of the competency of the house to discuss and decide upon any specific plan that may be brought before it, without any previous inquiry, he begged the house would not forget the declaration of the right hon. gent. when he should bring for-
800Mr. Parnell
sequitur non passibus equis.798 spoke in support of the motion. He thought the arguments used against it were very extraordinary. If they
sequitur non passibus equis.798Sir J. Newport
788, pursuant to uotice, rose to make his promised motion, relative to the appointment of a person (Mr. Beauchamp Hill), to a situation in the Excise in Ireland, in direct violation of a statute of regulation made for that country, and which was expressly intended to guard against the Frauds committed on the revenue of that country. If this should appear to be the case, and that the person alluded to had actually incurred his dismissal from the situation he had formerly held in the Excise, under the very letter and spirit of that act, instead of the promotion he had met with, what terms were too strong to reprobate such a conduct in those concerned in such a proceeding? How did the present case stand? By a statute made in 1806, it was enacted, that any officer in the customs or excise in Ireland, convicted of taking money in the execution of his office, should be incapable of holding any place under the government. By a former statute on the same subject, it was declared, that such persons, taking a bribe for neglecting their duty, should be incapable of holding any employment; but it was found they got out of this statute, by asserting they took money for performing their duty. To remedy which the former statute was enacted. It appealed from the report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into abuses in the Customs and Excise in Ireland, that in Sept. 1806, they called before them a person of the name of Beauchamp Hill. Upon his examination, he stated, he had been a surveyor for four years, and that he was in the habit of taking a present of 20 guineas per month from every still contained in his walk. It also appeared, by his examination, that he justified this practice on the ground of precedent and notoriety, and also from necessity, owing to the inadequacy of his salary to his support. This might be admitted as some excuse in his favour, but still the law was precise in marking the offence, and pointing out the penalty; and though the offence might be overlooked on the plea of
788Sir John Newport
ex parte said, that, the evidence at present was but ex parteSir John Newport
 replied, generally, to the several arguments urged against his motion. He thought the defence set up so extremely weak and defective, that it was only necessary to make a few observations. He insisted that the charge of Mr. Beauchamp Hill had been made out as strongly as the case would permit. The malt books of Ross Crea walk had not been returned. It was said some of them had been carried away; but what remained, proved that Mr. B. Hill was the surveyor then, that 15,000 gallons of pot ale had been found there suppressed; so that if you could not positively say a charge was found, it was very reasonable to suppose it. He declared he did not previously know Mr. B. Hill, nor any of his connexions, nor any of those persons in whose room he had been promoted; so that he could not be actuated by the slightest bias or motive of favour or partiality. The first he knew of Mr. Hill was seeing his name in the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry He censured the ground of argument that men known to be corrupt should be employed, on account of their ability to fill a particular station. On the contrary, he thought that in a public officer honesty and character could not be balanced by, nor ought they to be put in competition with any ability, however great it might be, He should therefore take the sense of the house on his motion.Sir John Newport
 spoke in favour of the vote of Credit, and thought a supply should be afforded to Austria, even although it enabled her to hold out but for one week longer against the common enemy. He condemned the tedious and ill-concerted military operations of this government, who contrived to send our armies into the field always out of place and time.Mr. C. Hutchinson
824823822821 The question before us. Sir, I take to be this; whether we shall grant three millions of money in the shape of a Vote of Credit, and leave it to the discretion of his majesty's ministers to apply some part of it in support of the contest in which Spain, Portugal, and Austria are engaged against France? This, although much of other matter has been introduced into the discussion, is certainly the only point we have particularly to consider upon the present occasion. That we should enable his majesty's ministers to assist Spain and Portugal with part of this money, every body seems to allow, as being reasonable, politic, and proper; the only doubt started is, as to how far we should
824823822821Mr. Ponsonby.
829828827826825 said, that whatever shades of difference there might have been in the speeches of the hon. gentlemen, yet the general result of them all was so much in favour of the proposed resolution, that he might agree with their general matter, and be dispensed from making any further observations. He should incline to act thus, were it not that he stood liable to be challenged by the right hon. gent, who last spoke as not having attended to his call, though on many other occasions it might be said he had attended to calls of a more irregular tendency. There was hut one part of the right hon. gent.'s speech which in detail he should consider it necessary to oppose, for in fact an hon. gent. opposite (Mr. W. Smith) had, in what he said, dismissed the other points which the right hon. gent, had stated. The sum which on this occasion was voted was the same which was usual in war time, and upon the like occasions to grant. There could be no great jealousy in the house with respect to the sum or the method of its application. The specific mention of Austria in his majesty's Message had not been, in fact considered as by any means necessary. If it had not been for the peculiar exigencies of that country, she would not have preceded
829828827826825Mr. Secretary Canning
 in explanation said, that, last session, he refused to give any opinion or advice, as to what conduct ought to be pursued towards Spain and Portugal: he then declined, because he was in perfect ignorance of the actual situation of affairs, nothing having transpired. He was not so at the present time; he therefore gave his advice, and his decided opinion was, that if far other measures were not taken by his majesty's ministers, France would ultimately subdue the peninsula.Mr. Ponsonby
830 said, he was surprized that on a former night so much stress should have been laid on speeches at public dinners, when one of the ministers of the crown, had, at a tavern, made a declaration as to foreign politics, and excused himself in that house, by saying, it was the first time he was led into the indiscretion He hoped the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Canning) would reap the same benefit from his first night's experience, as a noted person, who was eternally exclaiming against gambling, and who stated that he was so inveterate against that vicious practice, because he had once attempted it, and lost the chief part of his fortune, from which time he never gambled. He trusted, therefore, the right hon. Secretary had exhibited for the first and last time. With respect to Austria, he considered it a matter of great importance, how they laid down a precedent, which might put parliament in a situation in which it would be obliged to grant succour against its will. He was inclined to take the word of the right hon. gent., that no improper inducement was held forth to Austria, to incline her to go to war. Information, however, should be laid before the house, or submitted to the inspection of a committee on the subject. With respect to the assistance which it might be deemed expedient to afford Austria, for the further prosecution of the war, it was quite another matter. He felt that she was left no other alternative than war or subjugation; she found herself in the last gasp of her existence, and it became her to make a last struggle; but this country was
830Lord H. Petty
 then moved the Address, which was negatived without a division, and the Resolutions of the Committee were agreed to.Mr. Whitbread
819818817816debut815814813812811 rose. He felt himself under a difficulty as to the line of conduct he should adopt in this case. In one part of the vote he could agree, in the other he could not; and he saw no way of extricating himself but by a step which he had taken once before, and which he must now again resort to, if he found any person of the same opinion with himself, namely by proposing an Address to his majesty on the Message, which should be expressive of the opinion he entertained en the subject, and record it upon the Journals of the house. He agreed that it was right, that ministers should be vested with a power to assist Spain and Portugal, though he doubted much, from appearances, and from the exaggerated statements both of our commander and minis-
819818817816debut815814813812811Mr. Whitbread
820 said, that he was inclined to pay the utmost respect to every thing that fell from his hon. friend, not only on account of his talents, but on account of that industry with which he was known to attend to subjects of this nature; and he had no doubt, but that the country held in just estimation the motives by which the conduct of his hon. friend was, in every instance, influenced. It was, therefore, with the utmost pain that he differed from him upon any subject, still more, in the present instance. For his part, he did not see any great distinction between standing on a table at the Crown and Anchor, and standing on the floor at the London Tavern. He did not see any great distinction between meeting to celebrate the birth-day of Mr. Pitt, and meeting to celebrate that measure (Parliamentary Reform) most prominent in his politics, and one which perhaps those who supported him would be inclined to regard as the most distinguishing feature of his character. He (Mr. Smith) was one of those who firmly believed, that the war at the commencement of the French Revolution was a defensive war on her part; but it appeared to him that the aggressions of France, since that period, particularly in the instance of the attack upon Spain, which was accompanied with such enormous aggravations, entirely altered the complexion of the politics of Europe, and the nature and character of the war. He believed that France had a disposition to attack Austria. He was extremely ready to agree, that his hon. friend had brought forward strong arguments in favour of the side of the question which he espoused; at the same time, he considered them all reducible to one ground, namely, whether under any circumstances, any step should be taken for the preservation of Austria? He was averse to saying, that under any circumstances he would not agree that his majesty's ministers should afford any such protection and support. If the gentlemen who had some time ago conducted the affairs of government were still in power, he would be willing to confide in them; to the gentlemen now on the opposite side he was willing to give credit for integrity and honesty of intention; and therefore, under the present circumstances, he thought himself bound to give them his confidence, and entrust them with the means necessary to the object they had in
820Mr. William Smith
810 objected to it, on account of the discontent excited amongst able seamen, veterans in the service, by the deductions from their pay, first for their slops, and secondly for the allotments to their wives and children; through which means it often happened, that at the end of a long voyage, for six or a dozen months, a seaman had not more than 40s, to receive; and contrasting this with the case of militia soldiers, whose wives and children were provided for by their parishes, be thought it a hardship, and one which
810Sir Charles Pole
 answered the objections of the hon. baronet, by saying the bill was adopted in compliance with the recommendation of the Committee of Naval Revision, and it was considered rather as an indulgence to seamen while fighting the battles of their country, with the admiration of all the world, to enable them to allot a part of their earnings for the maintenance of their wives and children, and save them the necessity of appealing to the parish. This bill extended the principle, and enabled them to allot part of their pay to their aged fathers, which, by law, they could not do before. The honourable admiral argued as if this allotment on the part of the seaman, were compulsory, whereas it was merely optional.Mr. W. Pole
 said, that this bill might be very favourable to the parishes, but he did not conceive it would be favourable to the navy. He should not, however, divide the house upon it.Sir C. Pole
 rose to move the order of the day, for the house resolving itself into a committee upon the proposed Augmentation of the Salaries of the Judges.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not think that the present question should depend upon the nature or quantum of these proposed reductions. He considered the merits of the increase stood upon intrinsic grounds, and that the other was an after consideration. He then moved, that the Speaker do leave the chair for the purpose of going into a Committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 forbore to pledge himself to any conclusive course of conduce, relative to the reduction of those offices. The present measure stood, he contended, upon wholly independent grounds, without any reference whatsoever to the subordinate offices connected with such situations.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l 835 after
l.l.l 835The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 said, the proposition of the hon. gent. deserved more consideration before it should be adopted, as it would tend perhaps to overturn the present judicature of Wales. He could not agree with another hon. gent. that the Welsh Judges acted in a perpetual judicial character as the Judges of England did.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not approve of the Welsh Judges being admitted as members of parliament.Mr. Spencer Stanhope
837 did not think that the time of the judges would allow them to go the northern circuit
837The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion, that in granting an augmented salary to the Judges, the house ought not to mix any other question with that before them.Mr. Ponsonby
843842(h)(h)(h)contra bonos mores,841(g)(g)(f) (f) (e)(e)(g)(f)(e)840(d)(d)(c)(c)(b)(b)(a)(a)(d)(c)(b):(a)subvertreform,839838;—Before you proceed to put the Question of Reading this Bill a first time, I wish to offer myself to your notice:843842(h)(h)(h)contra bonos mores,841(g)(g)(f) (f) (e)(e)(g)(f)(e)840(d)(d)(c)(c)(b)(b)(a)(a)(d)(c)(b):(a)subvertreform,839838Mr. Wharton
l.846845l.844 observed, that the alterations which he had been enabled to frame would go a great way to meet the ideas of his right hon. friend who had just sat down; and he concurred with him, that it would be equally wise and prudent to make not only an enacting but a declaratory law. He also concurred with him, that the person guilty of this offence ought at least to be deprived of his seat. It was not necessary, he thought, to state what the law was before. He would merely say on that head, that in his opinion the law was so doubtful, that in a court of law, if the point came forward in a civil suit, it would be declared to be unlawful; but if a person should be indicted for a misdemeanor, the law was not so
l.846845l.844The Chancellor of the Exchequer
847 was of opinion, that the effect of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposed succedaneum for his hon. friend's bill, would be to vest the patronage of the
847Mr. Ponsonby
 had no objection to any penalty or imprisonment that might be proposed, to provide against the evil to which the bill referred, but he must deprecate the oath, because he thought that conscientious men might feel it difficult to take an oath which was merely a construction of law. If corrupt practices could be distinctly defined, this objection would not supply. But really, as the matter stood, he did not see that the oath could in all cases be safely taken by those even who meant not to offend.Mr. Rose
850 from all the arguments he had heard, considered it as very difficult to frame an Oath which would not imply an opinion on the construction of the law. He was therefore adverse to it, as tending only to exclude conscientious men from the house, in order to make room for the perjured, worthless, and abandoned. Dispensing with the oath, he would be happy to give his assent to any proposition that would rescue the house from the aspersions of corruption thrown upon it; but if the question of the oath was annexed to this bill it would compel him to vote against it.850Mr. Hawkins Browne,
 admitted the strength of the observations of his hon. friend, who had just sat down; but said at the same time, that the oath was so generally worded as to call for amendment. The oath by which any man was to be bound could not be worded in too special pleading a manner. This might seem an odd phrase, but his meaning was, that a man should thoroughly understand that to which he was to swear. He reminded gentlemen of that interchange of kindness that so generally took place between the electors and the elected, and which yet might, however honestly accepted and proffered, give rise to serious scruples in the breast of a man of honour in taking that oath.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 submitted to the committee, that all those members who had amendments to propose should propose them, in order that they might be printed together with the bill, so as that the house would be better able to decide upon the respective merits of the amendments.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that he could not avoid taking that opportunity of expressing his personal acknowledgements to the right hon. the Speaker, for the manly, dignified, and constitutional part he had that night taken in the discussion upon the bill then before them. Anxious as he was that the house should stand well with the country, he must be glad to witness such conduct in any member, but peculiarly happy was he to see such conduct sanctioned by all that grave authority, that must have the effect of making it exemplary. He would return to his home from the house that night, with a prouder sense of his situation as a member of that house, than he had reason to indulge in for many nights back.Mr. C. H. Hutchinson
 then left the chair, and the house went into a Committee.The Speaker
 supported this measure, so necessary to the proper establishment of dignified and exalted characters, who had always refrained from interference in polities. He trusted that it would be a spontaneous measure with every party in the house. Under all governments, the purity of the judicial establishment was never called in question, so that from the past, we might anticipate security on that head for the future.Lord H. Petty
 also considered the present proposition wholly distinct from any reference to its collateral consequences. It was merely, whether in the present state of the public circumstances, the country was not called upon to render the elevated situation of a judge more commensurate with the labour he performed, and the dignity he was bound to support.Lord H. Petty
 considered this bill as of the utmost importance to establish the purity of election. But if no adequate provision could be made to guard against the undue influence of the Treasury at elections, the bill must be nugatory. The framing of such a provision he, however, did not think at all impossible. It did, indeed, appear a monstrous proposition, that the grant of any place or patronage for the purpose of improper influence at an election, could not possibly be provided against. If any such proposition could be bottomed upon sound sense, he would immediately call upon his hon. friend to abandon his bill. As to an action against any member who should violate the obligation proposed by the bill, he would ask, how could it be supposed less practicable to maintain such an action for any penalty than that already prescribed by law, against, for instance, any contractor who should become a member of that house? With regard to the oath, he thought it essential to the object of the bill; and he was also of opinion, that a clause should be introduced, subjecting to heavy penalties those who should dispose of patronage in any manner to contravene the spirit of such a measure. But his impression of the importance of the oath, as applying to such dark transactions, was such, that he would rather adopt the oath alone, than take all the Chancellor of the Exchequer's clauses without the oath.Mr. Tierney
 thought, that this was the time for declaring that the place of Clerk of Assize should not be sold in future.Mr. G. Vansittart
l.l.836 from the extended nature
l.l.836Mr. C. Wynn,
849 argued ably in favour of the bill, which, however, he conceived would be not only nugatory, but mis-
849Mr. C. W. Wynn
 supported the amendment, and wished that the Welsh Judges should be excluded from parliament, on the constitutional principle that it was not right that those who were concerned in the exetion should have any share in the legislative part.Mr. Bankes
l. expressed his anxiety to guard against any misconception or misrepresentation of his opinions. He was distinctly a friend to the principle of the measure, upon the ground that to the great and valuable services of the judicial administration such an increase was highly necessary. But whilst he did justice to the judge, he also thought that it should not be withheld from the people. Fourteen years ago, after very laborious investigations, a Committee of that house had recommended the cessation of Sinecure offices, connected with the courts of law, to the amount of 27,879l.Mr. H. Martin
834 declared his anxiety to learn whether it was proposed to defray the amount of the proposed increase out of the reduction of the Sinecure offices connected with our judiciary establishments; a measure strongly recommended
834Mr. H. Martin
 congratulated the house upon the important information derived from the high authority (the Speaker), with whose sentiments they had been favoured upon this subject. With respect to the measure which he had thought it his duty to bring forward, as it was prepared in a hurry, he was willing to admit the probability that it was very inadequate to its object. He should, therefore, be ready to pay every possible attention to any amendment that might be suggested. No difference of opinion, he perceived, appeared to exist as to the necessity of a provision of this nature. So convinced, indeed, was he of that necessity, that if asked whether he would rather have the regulations proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer than nothing, he would promptly say, that however inefficient he, considered those regulations, they should have his support. At the same time, he could not help observing, that he must consider any arrangement upon this business unequal to answer the end in view, if the oath were omitted. He did not mean to be tenacious of the particular form of oath which he had submitted, but he thought that such an oath should and could be framed, as would serve to guard against the evil complained of, and at the same time be free from the objections urged by the right hon. gent. The hon. gent. concluded, with protesting against the idea of supporting any proposition which could in any degree tend, as seemed to be the apprehension, to transfer to a court of law that jurisdiction over its own members, which ought alone to belong to that house.Mr. Curwen
 did not oppose the augmentation of the salaries, but asserted the expediency, at the present moment, of directing that public justice should be carried into distant parts of the island twice instead of once a year. He thought, also, that a Welsh judge ought no longer to be allowed to sit in the house of commons, or to hold an office under the crown. He supported the opinion of his hon. friend (Mr. Martin), that the sinecure places in the courts of justice should go to make the increase proposed in the salaries of the judges. If these offices were not abolished at the present moment, at least a pledge ought to be given, that at some given period the sentiments of the committee, which had laid a Report on the table on the subject, would be taken into due consideration.Mr. Whitbread
 defended the proposition of further augmentation to the Welsh Judges, and hoped that those of Scotland, on account of their labour, would be shortly placed in situations relative to those of the English Judges.Mr. Adam
 rose, agreeably to the notice he had given on the subject of the papers, relative to lord Burghersh's commission as a lieut.-colonel in the army. From circumstances which had occurred, he was happy to think, that it was not necessary for him to proceed in this business. He must, however, be allowed to say that, in bringing the appointment in question under the consideration of that house, he had not been actuated by any personal motive, or by any feeling of hostility to the noble lord who was the object of it. The noble lord had done nothing wrong. It could be nothing but a praise-worthy motive which could induce him to court preferment in the army, which, while it was an honourable, was also a laborious and hazardous profession. As for himself, he was solely actuated by a regard for the public service. He felt regret that the noble lord had been deprived of that rank to which he had so lately been promoted. He hoped that the circumstance would not deprive the country of the services of so gallant and meritorious an officer, as he was given to understand the noble lord had proved himself to be. He must, however, be allowed to congratulate the country on the result of the present business, as it proved that due regard would always be paid to the opinion of parliament and of the country. He congratulated the service on the victory which had thus been gained over ministers; and by which an assurance was held out to them, that no deviation would be suffered to exist in the regulations of the army, when any such deviation was fairly and fully made the subject of investigation. Having said thus much, and again declaring himself to have been entirely free from every private or party motive, he begged leave to withdraw his motion.—Leave was given accordingly.Colonel Shipley
 was of opinion, that the objections to the oath seemed to be founded upon the supposition that the same practices which now existed would still continue to exist; but he rather thought that, should this bill take effect, its operation would be so salutary as to counteract those practices which it was thought would run counter to the oath.Mr. W. Smith
l. stated, that many complaints had reached him of the inconvenience sustained in the north, on account of there not being two assizes in the year.l.Mr. Wilberforce
848 congratulated the house on the advance they had made in this necessary measure, and the excellent effects likely to ensue from the clear mode in which the law had this night been laid down from high authority (the Speaker). He expressed a strong wish that the
848Sir John Anstruther
 said, that the judges, on going a circuit, certainly allotted by anticipation the time they should remain at the different towns on their respective circuits, according to their calculation of the time the business to be done at each would probably occupy; sometimes certainly the business occupied more time than they expected, and, rendered it impracticable to accomplish the whole, consistently with their arrangements made for other places; this, however, seldom happened; and where it was conceived the business would occupy more than the ordinary time, two judges went to York instead of one, whereby double the business was disposed of within the same period. It would be for the wisdom of parliament to make such arrangements on this head as might seem necessary hereafter; but he hoped the house would not clog the present bill by such regulations.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 coincided in the necessity of rendering all the judges equally independent of the crown with those of England, and therefore agreed in the propriety of precluding them from seats in parliament, as well as from other lucrative offices under the crown, in order that they might not only be removed from the influence of the crown in that house, but even from the suspicion of it; and he thought that a clause for this purpose, as well as for preventing the sale of the office of clerk of assize, ought to be inserted in the bill.Mr. Bunkes
862 disapproved of the entire system of laws that regulated the distilleries in Ireland. He was strengthened in his opinion, not only by the Irish commissioners of inquiry, but by a trial of the
862Mr. Bernard
l. considered that a fallacy had run through the whole of the statement made by the hon. gent. (Mr. Huskisson) as in his calculations he had not stated the produce of new taxes laid on in 1808 to the amount of 1,700,000l.Lord Folkestone
seriatim, coincided in opinion with the noble lord, vet thought it but fair to say that his hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) had not introduced the subject originally, but had only risen to correct the misstatements which had been made on the other side. As the hon. gent. (Mr. Martin) had declared his preference for his (Mr. Perceval's) first Resolution in opposition to his own, he could wish that instead of putting the committee to the necessity of previously negativing that Reselution, he would withdraw it, and suffer the other to be put in its stead. With respect to what the hon. gent, had said about comparing and contrasting the two strings of Resolutions seriatim,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
867 requested the attention of the
867Mr. Rose
l.l.l.l.873l.l. was at a loss how to reconcile the Report which he held in his hand with the high panegyric which the right hon. gentleman had thought proper to pronounce upon his deceased friend. The right hon. gent. had gone so far back as the year 1713, when he came to treat of Pensions. If he had looked at later periods, he would have found that they had increased very much since the beginning of the present reign. From the Report under consideration it appeared, that the amount of the Pension List had been most enormously increased by Mr. Pitt. But this was a part of the case which the right hon. gent. had felt it convenient to overlook, although the subject of pensions was the first topic that offered itself in the Report. There was also a strong fact which the right hon. gent. happened to forget, but he would call it to his recollection. The right hon. gent. would, perhaps, remember when Mr. Pitt, and himself, induced that house to acquiesce in the grant of 9,000l.l.l.l.873l.l.Mr. Crecvey
l. vindicated the conduct of his right hon. friend in the transaction alluded to, and averred that the 4½ per cent, duties were inadequate to furnish the allowance granted to the duke of Gloucester at the time the proposition complained of by the hon. gent. was brought before the house. He proved that in the year 1720, independent of the relative value of money, the Pension List was greater than at this moment. He also corrected his statements with respect to the 4½ per cent. fund, and shewed the nature of its application, in paying off 172,000l.Mr. Rose
 was of opinion it was part of the customs.Mr. Rose
 said, that he could not see, even admitting for a moment the truth of the statement, how it bore upon the question.Mr. Rose
l.l. denied that in the vice-royalty alluded to so much money had been granted in pensions. Deducting the pensions to the Burgh family and to lord Frederick Campbell, instead of 13,000l.l.Mr. Foster
879 considered this amendment of the hon. gent. as founded upon a most aristocratic principle; it would throw the offices of the crown into the hands of those alone who could, from their property, very well dispense with their salaries. He opposed to the theory of the hon. gent. the constant practice of that house, and con-
879The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion that the Resolution of his hon. friend was most important in itself, and of the greatest moment to the constitution of the country. For his own part, he was inclined to the Amendment of his hon. friend, and if it was to be pushed to a division, should vote for it. But he wished to submit it to his hon. friend, whether it would not be desirable for him to adopt the same course respecting his Amendment which had been pursued with respect to the former Resolutions, namely, to suffer it to lie on the table for a few days, in order to allow gentlemen an opportunity of considering its contents. The question was one of great moment and delicacy, and required to be looked at gravely, with a due regard to the constitution of this empire. Nothing could be so hostile to the existence of union and tranquillity, as the division of the legislature into three estates, unless they were duly balanced: but the great perfection of the constitution of this country was, that no class of the community was excluded from its just share in the deliberations of the state.— Many bills had been passed with a view to prevent abuses; but the present question, if any, deserved the peculiar attention of that house. If he were to be called on to give a vote on the present question, he would support the Amendment of his hon. friend, though he should be much better pleased, if his hon. friend would consent to put off the discussion of it for a few days, as had been done when the Resolutions were at first proposed, in order to give the house an opportunity of comparing the Amendment with those Resolutions.Mr. Ponsonby
 concurred in the suggestion of his right hon. friend, and recommended to the committee to defer the further consideration of the subject until both the Amendment and the original Resolution should be in the hands of gentlemen.Mr. Lyttleton
 was ready to enter into the discussion of the question at that moment, and would vote for the Amendment, though he had no hesitation to accede to the suggestion of putting off the discussion to another occasion. He could not, however, avoid saying, that the object of all former times had been to curtail the influence of the crown, and to prevent placemen from having seats in that house.Lord Folkestone
 entered into a justification of the appointment and remuneration of Mr. M'Donald, and concurred in the propriety of adjourning the discussion of the Amendment to a future day.Lord H. Petty
l.866 said, he did not expect the debate would have taken the turn which it appeared to have done. He thought, however, his hon. friend who brought forward these Resolutions, had acted very right in drawing the attention of the house to economy. As, however, the hon. gent. who had just sat down had gone into figures on the occasion, he would beg leave to state a few similar facts from a paper he happened accidentally to have in his pocket, but which he never had an idea till that moment of mentioning on the present occasion. He calculated that, upon the arrival of peace, if it were to take place to-morrow, the amount of the public expenditure for the support of the army, navy, and miscellaneous charges, would, at least, be equal to 48 millions, to which add the interest upon exchequer bills, which would make it exceed 49 millions, and he would ask, how was this sum to be provided? The whole of the revenue, applicable to a peace establishment,
l.866Mr. Tierney
 said, that he had never yet heard of corporal punishment being inflicted for a fiscal offence; such a punishment, in such a case, was unknown to the constitution. Besides, the nature of the corporal punishment was not ascertained; whether it was to be flogging or hanging they did not know. Great care, he admitted, should be taken of the revenue; but not by subverting the principles of the British constitution.Mr. H. Martin
863l.l. rose and observed, that it was his anxious wish to impress upon the committee the propriety of attending to the principles of economy in every department of the public expenditure. The necessity, indeed, of such attention must he thought be obvious to every man who took the trouble of looking into the subject, and felt any solicitude for the interests of the country. The amount of our annual expenditure, and of our national debt, was enormous, while the declining produce of our revenue was notorious. According to the papers on the table, the produce of our permanent taxes was only 30,190,178863l.l.Mr. Martin
, in explanation, stated, that he quoted from the returns laid before the house as to the funds to be relied upon in the event of peace. There was at least one part of the war taxes, namely, the Convoy duty, which must inevitably cease.Mr. Martin
 withdrew his first Resolution, and that proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was put from the chair and agreed to. The following was the Resolution: "That the utmost attention to economy in all the branches of Public Expenditure which is consistent with the interests of the Public Service, is at all times the duty of this House."Mr. Martin
 contended, that as the navy, the army, the ordnance, the public debt, and every thing connected with the management of public affairs had considerably increased, so also must the influence of the crown have been proportionably extended. That influence could not but be communicated to a great number of members of parliament. It must have continued to work in secret and in silence, and it was the duty of that house to watch and counteract it. Having observed the progress of that influence, he was ready to agree in the principle of the motion before the house, or in any other measure that was likely to lead to a gradual and temperate reform of abuses.Mr. H. Thornton
 replied, that the hon. member's name was introduced into the Report, in a manner that was perfectly unambiguous; for in one passage, after giving the hon. member's name, it expressly stated, that the profits were understood to belong only to lord Wellesley; and in another, after giving the hon. member's name conjointly with that of lord Wellesley, it was added, that the profits were supposed to belong to lord Wellesley.Mr. H. Thornton
860 deprecated the idea of precluding the Welch judges from seats in that house, under any idea of their dependence on the crown, their places being for life. By such an exclusion, the house would be deprived of a valuable portion of talents: and he begged leave to instance the speech of one of those judges upon a late important occasion (that of
860Mr. I. H. Browne
l.l.874 would by no means admit this principle; it would be found that in the reign of George I. pensions had been
l.l.874Mr. Long
878877l. declared it was not his intention to enter into the former details of the debate. He was very ready to confess that Mr. Pitt had laid many perspicuous financial statements before the house, and believed it to be his object, at one period, to attain the utmost perfection he could in the science of finance. Whether he deviated from that determination since the year 1793, it was for the house to judge. He certainly failed in some of his calculations, and as an instance the committee might refer to his prophecy in the year to which he alluded, that we should have a fifteen years peace. While he paid every tribute to the disinterestedness of his private life, and praised the poverty in which he died, still he must say that the war had been carried on with the utmost prodigality. In the barrack department alone the extravagance was amazing. Notwithstanding all that had been said by the right hon. gent. (Mr. Rose) to prove that every attention had been paid to economy, he still thought, that there were grounds for complaints of the most serious nature, when the great waste of the country's resources was considered which had been discovered in every branch of the war department. He thought it something extraordinary, that it should be said the hon. gent. received that pension still, which it was understood was to be given up by a person holding a situation of more than 2000878877l.Mr. Whitbread
 proposed to make a separate motion to the house of his amendment, on Thursday next.Mr. Whitbread
881, though he wished for a decision upon the subject of his Amendment, had yet no objection to put off the final discussion to a future day. He saw no reason why chief justices should be made Peers, nor why Welsh Judges should be allowed to become members of that house. Neither could he admit that, because a person abandoned his profession, he should have a provision for life made for him for having abandoned it. He was ever ready to admit that a person, worn out in the service of his country, ought to be adequately provided for; he contended that no such extravagant compensation, as had been given to Mr. M'Donald for quitting his profession to become a Commissioner of American property, ought, under any such circumstances, to be granted. Such grants were contrary to the plans of Mr. Burke, Mr. Pitt, and lord Shelburne. The increase of the influence of the crown would be obvious, when it was considered how much the army, the navy, and every other branch of the public expenditure
881Mr. Whitbread
859 said it was not his wish to oppose the increase of salary intended to the judges; but he gave notice that he should, in the progress of the bill, take the liberty of suggesting to the house some propositions on the subject, and particularly for preventing the sale of the office of clerk of assize, and also for preventing the Welsh Judges from holding other places of profit under the crown, and from occupying seats in parliament, both of which
859Mr. Whitbread
l. thought the crown had no title to the revenue arising from the 4½ per cent. The question was, what had the practice been? 20,000l.Mr. Creevey
 said, it was stated as a part of the public revenue.Mr. Creevey
 stated, that lord Grenville and lord Harrowby (then Mr. Ryder) had, in the Report of a Finance Committee, reported the 4½ per cent. funds as public money.Mr. Creevey
then left the chair, and reported progress to the house. The Report was ordered to be taken into further consideration on Thursday next.Mr. D. Giddy 
861l. delared himself decidedly averse to this bill; first, upon the general principle of granting chartered monopolies to any great body of men, to the preclusion of all competition. He would admit there might be some exceptions, in cases where great advantages to the public must manifestly arise, and where the fortunes of a few individuals must be inadequate to the accomplishment; in the case for instance of a great aqueduct, for the supply of a city, such as the New River, or of a canal, as the West India Docks, or such great undertaking, where the public advantage was clear, and the profits within some calculation. But upon such an undertaking as the present, where, however ingenious the plan, the practicability was problematical, and no estimation produced to prove it capable of adoption to any thing like the extent proposed, he was against the sanction of parliament being given to the measure, for the purpose of procuring immense subscriptions to an undertaking, which, on the face of the plan, seemed unmanageable by any act of directors; for it appeared that in the parish of St. James's alone, six different establishments would be required to furnish the light, and that the expence of lighting by Gas would cost 550861l.Mr. D. Giddy
 rose and corrected his misconception of the matter. He shewed, that what the noble lord intended to consider as new taxes, were only a new arrangement of the assessed taxes already in existence.Mr. Huskisson
865l.l.l.864 rose, to correct some mis-statements with respect to the finances of the country into which the hon. gent.
865l.l.l.864Mr. Huskisson
 moved the third reading of the Gas Light bill, but at the same time prayed the indulgence of the house in allowing him to propose five new clauses; and that the house would take the debate upon the question that the bill do pass. He read the clauses in his place.Mr. Mellish
 could not think the true interests of the country were consulted in pensioning off every subordinate officer of government after serving the public two or three years.Mr. W. Smith
 rose to explain a statement in the Supplement to the Third Report, which concerned him. When lord Wellesley went to India, it was thought advisable to insert the hon. member's name in the patent of the office of Remembrancer of the Exchequer, in case the office should become vacant while lord Wellesley was absent; but the hon. member reaped no emolument whatever from this arrangement, and was very much surprised to find his name mentioned in the Supplement to the Third Report in rather an ambiguous manner. This mistake did not originate with the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and the hon. gent. had indeed made a statement to the committee, disclaiming the receipt of any emolument in consequence of the arrangement the hon. member had explained.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 thought the poverty in which Mr. Pitt died was very much to his credit; he was a man who practised virtue most, and made the least display of it; he indeed "Did good by stealth, and blush'd to find it fame."Mr. Wilberforce
d.s.l. opposed the bill. It was not necessary, he observed, to re sort to charters to procure capital. He would not encourage these gambling projects, by which men were to be princes or beggars, in a moment. He could not avoid directing the attention of the house to the extravagant expectations that were held out in a pamphlet recommending this plan. Among other impudent impositions, it was endeavoured to be shewn, that it would produce, in the course of a short time, no less than 10,201,741d.s.l.Mr. Wilberforce
 objected to the nature of the punishment inflicted by the bill upon such persons as were concerned in unlicensed stills. For the first offence, corporal punishment was inflicted; for the second, transportation. He did not approve of such severity, especially as the system now acted on was so defective as to give encouragement to the offence. He would therefore move, That the clause inflicting such punishment should be omitted.Mr. Parnell
 saw no necessity in the present case to depart from the usual mode of proceeding; and hoped the house would not encourage a custom which had prevailed of late; namely, that of keeping back the principal clauses of private bills until the very last stage, and there proposing them by surprize upon the house.Sir J. Anstruther
l.876 repeated his assertion, which was verified by the returns of the house of commons, and even ex-
l.876Sir J. Newport
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.875l. said, that as his hon. friend had introduced this subject before the house, he hoped some gentleman for Ireland would institute a similar exposition with respect to that country, for he had a statement to make to the committee with regard to the financial arrangements of Ireland, at one time, that would, he apprehended, astonish gentlemen who heard him, and incline them to think that such an exposition would not be unnecessary. In the administration of a noble lord who was now a cabinet minister, he meant the Lord Privy Seal (lord Westmoreland), it was enacted by parliament, that until the Pension List establishment for Ireland should be reduced to 80,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.875l.Sir J. Newport
 thought that the discussion was taking a turn entirely foreign from the subject of the Third Report upon Offices, and therefore suggested the propriety of proceeding to the matter in question. There would be no end to the debate, were the finances of the country to be made the subject, when the question was simply as to the necessity of economy.Lord Milton
 said, that what he would contend for was this, that the enactments of the Act of Union were clear, but that the schedule was confused and contradictory. The only way to prevent a misconstruction against Ireland, was to adopt this bill, as it was utterly impossible to take the subject into ample consideration this session.Mr. Foster
 said, that in two cases where questions upon the Act of Union had been brought before the house, they had been carried against Ireland, as it were, by acclamation, and he hoped the third would not share the same fate. By the Act of Union, the Irish distiller had a right to come to market, by paying the countervailing duty, and if this measure were carried, it would be putting the question at rest for a twelvemonth, with a vengeance. Why they should be deprived of this right he knew not; unless because it had been determined to be against the English market. As he had argued the subject, he would not detain the house by further observations, but wished to know from a right hon. gent. opposite, why he could not apply a remedy to the Scotch trade, without adopting this measure?Mr. Hutchinson
 regretted the difficulties arising out of the measure, but said it was impossible it could be construed as a violation of the Act of Union. The English and Irish revenue were both concerned in the decision of the question, and as he could throw no new light upon the subject, it having been already so fully discussed, he would content himself by declaring in favour of the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the order of the day for the third reading of this bill, when counsel were ordered to be called in to be heard at the bar against its passing into a law; after the bill was read a third time, the counsel having then withdrawn,Mr. Foster
 said that the house had decided on the conduct of lord Wellesley.Mr. Dundas
 said, that this part of the proclamation had attracted the attention of government. They had asked for explanation, and could do nothing farther till that arrived. The officers were persons of known humanity, and in all probability could give an explanation that would be satisfactory. He hoped, therefore, the hon. gent. would think the motion unnecessary at present.Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that he could not but wish that the hon. gent. would withdraw the motion, as it must be considered as a slur upon our commander, who had lately made so important an atchievement; that to circumscribe the power of a general in issuing a proclamation, was a novel and a bad precedent; and that the commanders, in his opinion, were perfectly justified in the proclamation they had issued, from the dreadful example of the negroes interfering in the warfare in St. Domingo. The horrors they had committed there justified the commanders in taking every precautionary step of intimidation; and the event proved they were right, for the white population received them with open arms, and the negroes were neutral. As to the black corps, the hon. gent. rated them too highly, when he compared them to British troops.Colonel Dillon
899 approved of the principle on which the present motion was founded, but was very much afraid, that when we acted as conquerors, we did, like others, all we could do to maintain and to secure our conquests. He condemned the too general practise of abus-
899Mr. C. H. Hutchinson
900 rose to move an amendment in the clause respecting the giving of money or offices for the procuring of seats in parliament. As to the first part, which related to money being given for seats, he had no objection to the wording of the clause which mentioned "any contract or agreement, express or implied, to pay money." He did not object to that, because it was a thing which was not difficult to be ascertained. He objected, however, to the words "express or implied," as relating to the grant of offices; and the reason he objected to it was, the great difficulty of ascertaining what should be considered an implied agreement. As to the offices, they must necessarily be granted to somebody or other, or the business of the state could not go on. If, then, any of those offices were given to a person who had been useful, or who might hereafter be useful at an election, a jury would be puzzled when to pronounce that it was an implied agreement, or that it was not. It appeared to him that it was a very strong ground of difference, that offices must be given to somebody, and therefore might honestly and properly be given to persons who were electors, whereas money given, or promised to be given, from the pocket of the candidate, could hardly be conceived to be given with any other idea than that of obtaining a corrupt influence. He had objected, at first, to that part which not only vacated the seat of a member, but exposed him to a trial for a misdemeanor; as he conceived, that if the misdemeanor proved before a court or a jury, the verdict would, in fact, determine the seat. He had waved, however, his objections on this head; but when it was considered what very severe punishments attached by this bill to every person convicted of giving or receiving those improper considerations,
900The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. said, that, the only person to be turned out of parliament was the person who had purchased the seat; he who had given it was liable to a penalty of 500l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. objected to the right hon. gent.'s proposition upon another principle; he objetced to the distinction which it went to draw between an express and an implied contract, the effect of which would be to render the provisions of the bill a mere delusion. The right hon. gent.'s proposition denied any jurisdiction to a committee or a court of law, unless an actual express corrupt agreement could be proved; so that let the inference of such corruption be ever so strongly established, and the minds of the judge and jury ever so completely satisfied of the offence, it could not be punished. This he thought highly objectionable. With respect to the penalty of 4 or 500l.Mr. Ponsonby
902 said, that the observation just made shewed him the necessity of the clause. It bad been stated, that in consequence of his proposition, a jury would be obliged to acquit, unless evidence of an express contract or agreement could he adduced. This, he was of opinion, ought to be the case. It was actually necessary to make such a provision, unless they wished to prevent the giving of offices to relations or friends. Somebody should be appointed to office it is true, but then it would be inquired why was A. preferred to B?
902The Chancellor of the Exchequer
901 said, that he, on the contrary, would rather that they should be applied to both cases, and that the original clause should stand, than that those words should be entirely left out. He again called the attention of the committee to the very heavy punishments which this bill inflicted on the givers and receivers of money or offices; and for the reasons he had before given, had no objection to the penalties attaching where it could be proved that there was any specific agreement to give an office
901The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that leaving out the words "express," or "implied," might relieve the debate on that clause; but he must insist on the word "express" being in the other clause respecting offices.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended that all the objections to which the former oath was liable, weighed equally against the one now proposed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 defended the amended oath, and remarked that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though he blamed all other oaths, proposed none of his own.Mr. Ponsonby
 contended for the original oath; he denied that the amended oath could be taken by any member, because it made a man swear that he had not been returned by the expenditure of any sum of money; this was impossible, because legal expences might be included under it. He did not think the penalties of perjury should now, for the first time, be introduced into an oath of detail.Mr. Secretary Canning
 asked what situation a member would be in, who, after he had taken the oath, should be declared to have been guilty of bribery by a committee of the house? Would not this go a great way to convict him of perjury?Mr. Rose
905 said, that if the hon. baronet
905Mr. Rose
 objected to any oath referential to an act of parliament.Lord Porchester
 said, he had stated, when he was indulged with the hearing of the Committee on a former occasion, his wish for a proper oath, and his coincidence in the opinion of sir William Blackstone; but he, at the same time, stated, that the oath was not indispensable, and, if there was much diversity of opinion on the subject, it would be better not to insist upon it. It was of so much importance to obtain the recognition of the house to a bill with the principles of the present, that he should be sorry to lay this, or any other difficulty in the way that might endanger its passage through the house.The Speaker
 said, that if one course was to be forbidden, and another permitted, they might depend upon it the course permitted would be the one adopted. Everyone of the corrupt transactions that had been performed were without any express agreement, and they would still continue to be transacted in the same way. If a jury was not competent to decide upon a question of implication, what would become of the administration of law in the country? An implied agreement, he contended, was as capable of proof as an express one.Lord H. Petty
 affirmed, that every attention had been paid by the directors to the interest of the private merchant that was consistent with the privileges of the company. But the truth was, that nothing could satisfy these gentlemen short of having the trade thrown completely open. He had no objection to the production of the papers.Mr. C. Grant
 said, that if they determined that an express agreement should be proved, no Treasury would be absurd enough to come to an express agreement; so that the evil would not be remedied. It was calculated to screen the Treasury. The right. hon. gentleman was willing to adopt the words, as applied to money; but he (Mr. T.) was desirous to extend them to offices also, as he did not see any reason for the exception.Mr. Tierney
 could not perceive the necessity of the distinction between the giving money and the giving an office for the same object. If the clause were to be amended in the manner proposed by the right hon. gent. the public would suppose that the house was much more anxious to protect the power of giving offices for seats in parliament, than of giving money. At present the house were only sitting in committee to make the bill as unobjectionable as possible, and it was well understood that after it had gone through the committee, there would be a serious opposition to it upon the report. Now he, for his part, although very anxious that the bill should pass, would really not know how to defend it when it came under discussion, if this most important clause were altered in the manner proposed by the right hon. gent. It would seem as if the influence of the Treasury were to be protected at all events. He thought that the words used in another act of parliament, "for his own profit, benefit, promotion, or preferment," would do well enough in the present, instance. He did not think the words "expressed or implied" were so necessary as they appeared to some gentlemen He should rather have them left out in both cases than applied to one, and not to the other.Mr. Tierney
 had no objection that the penalties of perjury should be attached to the oath. The only reason why he did not introduce them was, that, in examining the statute book, he could not observe them included in any oath which went into detail.Mr. Tierney
 denied that this oath would be conscientiously taken by any one who had contracted for his seat.Mr. Tierney
 expressed his astonishment that the right hon. gent. could suppose that a jury could imply any corrupt motive, where none existed, when it was so well known to be the duty of a jury to ascertain, by evidence, what was right and what was wrong. He was still satisfied there was no necessity for separating the provisions as to money from those as to offices.Mr. Tierney
904 expressed his opinion that some oath was necessary, but objected to the original oath in the bill us being too ab-
904Mr. Tierney
 said, it was well known that many voters, though they received nothing for their actual votes, obtained five guineas for shaving the member, or some such act. He objected that there was no provision made for the punishment of a person who purchased a seat for another, without any emolument to himself.Mr. C. Wynn
 allowed, that some adjustment was necessary; but the fairest way, till the law could be settled, was to allow it to remain as it was. By the suspension, a violation of the Act of Union immediately took place, and therefore suspension should not be allowed, till the real spirit could be ascertained. If the advantage was now in favour of Ireland, they were entitled to it; but as Scotland was concerned, Ireland must give way. He concluded by saying, that he would vote against the suspension.Mr. Grattan
 thought, that if the words "contrary to the meaning of this act," were inserted, and the penalties of perjury forborn, the objections to the oath would be removed.Mr. H. Thornton
 then consented to withdraw his motion for the present.Mr. Stephen
898 moved for a return of the troops employed in the late expedition to Martinique, distinguishing the black troops from the Europeans, The object was to call the attention of the house to a Proclamation issued previous to the attack upon Martinique. In this proclamation a distinction was made between the people of colour who should make resistance, and the negroes found with arms. The latter were, it appeared, to be called before a military tribunal, and treated
898Mr. Stephen
 moved as an amendment, That the member proved guilty of corruptly procuring his election, should not only be disqualified from sitting in parliament for the particular place where the act was committed, but that he should be excluded from the whole of that parliament.Mr. Curwen
 said, he would wish to leave out both the words "express" and "implied."Mr. Curwen
 argued in favour of some oath, but still thought, even if the oath was left out, that by this measure a seed was sown, whose beneficial fruits would be extensive.Mr. Curwen
 recommended caution in the employment of black troops. If they revolted in the large islands and joined the disaffected, in Jamaica for instance, we might find it difficult to conquer them. Buonaparté had conquered Europe, but could not conquer St. Domingo.Mr. Barham
897 called the attention of the
897Mr. Prendergast
 observed, that the mercantile transactions of the company would come to be considered when the East India committee, to which these papers had been referred, presented its Report. But he thought the hon. gent. who introduced the subject might have said something as to the political evils connected with India, such as the seizing of kingdoms, &c. In his opinion it was preposterous, after the conduct of marquis Wellesley had been so pointedly condemned by the directors, that no measures had been taken to prevent future governments from following a similar course.Mr. Creevey
 thought the papers ought not to be granted.Mr. Wallace
 thought the bill in its original state better than at that moment. They ought to leave the operation of the law on the word "agreement," which was perfectly understood, whether tried by a Committee of that house or by a jury.Mr. Adam
903 did not disapprove of the honourable and legitimate application of money to procure seats; but corruption he disapproved of as much as any man. If that species of influence was excluded, another would be substituted in its place, perhaps not more advantageous to the country. They who promised to take off taxes; they who resorted to large professions, and the arts of popular eloquence, would succeed, if the influence of property were destroyed. He had no hesitation in stating, in his place, that if the government was what many gentlemen contended for, in theory, it would be the most impracticable form that ever was attempted. If mankind were so formed as to be adapted to it, they would require no government at all. Without a system of influence, no government could exist. There was a distinction between public
903Mr. Davies Giddy
 contended for the necessity of an oath, but did not wish one to be included in the bill, unless the penalties of perjury were attached to it.Mr. Wilberforce
 thought this clause was meeting an evil in the way in which it did not exist. If they added to the penalty by making it heavier, or by making it a forfeiture of the office, he thought it would do.Sir J. Anstruther
 rose and said, for any thing he knew, if this bill were allowed to pass, the suspension might be continued from year to year. It had been said originally, that the Irish distillers were in favour of the measure; it could not be said so now, when their counsel appeared against it. He was convinced that Ireland had not been fairly dealt with; but as to impress such a conviction might be productive of the worst consequences, he would not go into it, although he was certain that she had lost more than she had gained by the Act of Union. Those who desired the present bill to pass, wished for a monopoly, and would the house accede to it? As far as one individual voice would go, he would protest against it, as a direct violation of the Act of Union.Sir John Newport
 said, that the people of England would think the person who could not take this oath guilty of bribery; and that the legal expenses between which and bribery the right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning) could not distinguish, were such as a man might be arrested for if he did not pay.Sir T. Turton
 did not understand the meaning of an honourable and legitimate application of money to procure seats in parliament. With respect to the immediate question, he saw no inconvenience that could result from committing the question of implication to a jury. He thought there were too many words about the bill, and wished to see it include every description of undue influence.Sir Thomas Turton
 begged to state an amendment he should propose when the present was disposed of, to the effect that the member had not, nor had any person for him purchased his seat.Sir T. Turton
 said he had never done so, and should not, although the right hon. gent. had set him the example (Hear, hear!).Sir T. Turton
 supported the necessity of an oath, and the propriety of attaching penalties to it. He thought the amended oath proposed much less applicable than the original one.Lord Milton
920 observed, that if was the duty of ministers neither to be elevated by temporary success, nor depressed by the casual disasters to which war was sub-
920Lord Castlereagh
 (of Kerry) approved of the declaration of government, that they would not abandon Spain as long as it would be true to itself.Mr. Herbert
l.l.921l.l.l. called the attention of the committee to the subject of the Smaller Livings in England, the increase of which was the object of queen Anne's Bounty. He had himself given the matter much consideration; and from the pains taken, he was in hopes he should have been enabled to have brought the matter fully under their consideration in the course of this present session; but though the returns were as yet but imperfect, those from four dioceses not having been made, yet he thought no time should be lost, as they approached to the end of a session, of doing something, by way of pledge that the business would be ultimately reduced to a system. By the returns already made, imperfect as they were, it appeared, that by the regular application of queen Anne's Bounty, it would take forty years to come, to make the smaller livings up to 50l.l.921l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. rose, and expressed his satisfaction at the reception which the proposition met with. It was not at present proposed to form a system. The suggestions for improvement would be afterwards considered. He stated that the present grant, if continued, would in four years raise the value of the lowest livings to 50l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
923l.l.l. then stated to the committee, that the next grant he had to propose, was, a remuneration to the reverend Dr. Cartwright, for his valuable invention of machinery for weaving of cotton and combing of weel. This he did, in consequence of a memorial that had been presented to him, signed by about 30 manufacturers, who had witnessed the benefit of the machine. This memorial stated, that that reverend gentleman had expended a large fortune in carrying the invention into practice; that in the year 1788, he had obtained a patent, but that in 1792, popular prejudice was so greatly against it, that his machinery was destined by the mob, and before he could get another mill erected, his patent expired, by which he lost the whole benefit arising from his labours, after having expended between 30,000923l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
bona fide proposed a clause, providing that nothing in the bill should extend to any legal and bona fideThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the clause, and thought it more inapplicable with regard to the object of the bill than the former clause to which the hon. gent. had so strongly objected. That clause had a more general application than the one proposed by the hon. gent., which applied chiefly, if not solely, to burgage tenures. He thought it would be advisable to defer any discussion or proposition with respect to those burgage tenures until the question affecting the principle of those burgage tenures was fairly before the house.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not suppose that, after the discussion of last night, any new light could be thrown upon it. It did not however appear, that if it should be left open to imply an agreement, juries would always presume that the grant of the office was in consequence of the vote given.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that if the word 'express' was continued, the very principle of the bill was altered. If it should be continued, he felt it was his duty to vote against the bill itself.Mr. Lyttleton
, with considerable diffidence in his own opinion, when opposed to the very high authority of the Speaker, still contended that the insertion of the term 'express' in a declaratory act of parliament conveyed the interpretation, that the penalty attached to express agreements, and that all of an indirect or implied nature, came not within its operation.Mr. Ponsonby
 considered the Resolutions of 1779 not efficacious to redress an evil which all admitted to exist, at which the house itself connived and of which, with the circumstances known to all members, they would have been even greater hypocrites than Mr. John Bowles, when he wrote his books, to affect an ignorance.Mr. Ponsonby
 appealed to the honourable proposer of the bill (Mr. Curwen) whether he felt that ministers had endeavoured to defeat the object of the measure?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
both argued, that the insertion of the term wholly vitiated and defeated the object of the proposed remedy. It was stated by the latter, that in no other legislative enactment such a term as "express" could be found.Mr. Bankes and sir S. Romilly 
 vindicated the conduct of his right hon. friend, during the progress of this bill, and gave his support to the clause as it then stood.The Attorney General
 considered that the Resolutions of that house in 1779 bore fully upon a traffic carried on by an implied contract, and therefore he saw no reason to oppose the proposed clause as now worded.The Speaker
 stated his wish on the first view to extend the provisions of this bill to the purchase of seats in parliament, as well by office as by money. The great rule was to strike at the prominent and most flagrant points of offence. Amongst those, most certainly, was the proof of an express contract. These he would state, always impressed him with the conviction, that this species of traffic, whether carried on by implied or express covenants, was an offence against the law of parliament, and in his opinion punishable as a misdemeanor at common law. It was fully within the power of the house to provide any future enactments against any future offences, which in the course of the operation of this measure might subsequently arise.The Speaker
 concurred in the object of assisting the parochial clergy, and looked with satisfaction to what had been done by a bill which he himself had some time ago brought in for relieving the small livings from the land tax. He wished that a plan could be devised to confine the relief to such small livings as were not possessed by rich pluralists. He also suggested the propriety of making queen Anne's Bounty effective in Ireland.Lord H. Petty
 stated his objection to the clause as now read. He contended, that in place of remedying corruption it went to concentrate it. It would give the whole management of that species of influence to the Treasury. Now, next to putting a stop to the principle and practice of corruption, the next wise thing was to have it as diffuse and general as possible. Upon the construction of this clause would depend whether he should support or oppose the bill, convinced that at all times it was better not to legislate than to pass provisions which it was intended not to make efficient. He concluded with moving, as an amendment, that the word "express" be left out.Lord H. Petty
35Majority
35Majority78Against it
78Against it43For the Amendment
43For the Amendment
35Majority
35Majority78Against it
78Against it43For the Amendment
43For the Amendment928 thought any member
35Majority
35Majority78Against it
78Against it43For the Amendment
43For the Amendment
35Majority
35Majority78Against it
78Against it43For the Amendment
43For the Amendment928Mr. Wortley Stuart
919 said, his duty impelled him to come forward on the present occasion to offer that advice to ministers, in public, which he had suggested to them in private, but which had not been attended to. He had intended to advert more particularly to the affairs of Austria, but the recent news from that quarter had struck him with so unexpected a degree of satisfaction, that he should in some measure abstain from his intention. Certainly that power either knew, or ought to have known, the strength and situation of Buonaparté, previous to her entering into the present contest; and yet we saw him collecting an army on the Rhine, with as much facility as if he were not engaged, either personally, or with his force, in Spain; but when he found the French penetrate to Vienna, almost without resistance, he began to despair, and felt inclined to be parsimonious in the pecuniary assistance to be afforded to the Austrians. Since, however, his coming into the house, he had seen the French bulletin, and he found reason to hope a reverse had taken place in the hitherto unchecked career of victory. Whether the bridges on the Danube had been broken down by design or accident, signified nothing; for when the French were compelled to retreat, his hopes began to revive. Under these circumstances, he did think that some money, though that sum should not be very large, should be risked in the support of the Austrian cause. The hon. general next
919General Tarleton
927 declared, that since he had first the honour of a seat in that house, he never heard a speech with greater pleasure than that of the right hon. the Speaker, whose authority stood so deservedly high in that house. He did think that the house
927Mr. Tierney
925 said, that the right hon. gent. seemed to be of opinion that he had a right to challenge those who objected to the wordin925Mr. Tierney
 observed, that if the news of the check received by the French armies in Austria were well-founded, ministers ought not to be niggardly in their assistance in money to Austria; and if the case should require it he would recommend it to ministers, instead of three millions to take six millions. This was the first reverse that Buonaparté had met with; and if it was of the extent reported, it would be incumbent on ministers to adopt a bolder policy, and make common cause with Austria, where the battle for Spain and Portugal must in fact be fought.Mr. Curwen
922 approved of the measure, and concurred in what had fallen from the hon. gent, near him respecting the want of
922Mr. Curwen
, without imputing any such intentions to government, still regretted that the most material points were negatived, and that the disposition of the home was not friendly to the principle of the measure. He conjured the government, in place of anticipating guards for themselves, to yield to the opinion of the country; and not suffer it to think, that where its influence was to be affected there was nothing done.Mr. Curwen
 spoke in favour of the amendment, which he thought necessary, to guard against impunity to those who gave or accepted bribes after election. He had several clauses to propose, which he should postpone bringing forward until the third reading. As to the grant of offices, the fact was, that the generality of the close boroughs were corrupted by such grants, and therefore it was the more necessary to make a provision upon this subject.Mr. Adam
 objected to it, and contended, that to any stranger it would appear to have no connection with the object of the bill; and that such a person would be apt to imagine either that he had mistaken the title of the bill, or that it had crept accidentally into the bill; the object, however, of the clause, though apparently irrelevant, was sufficiently obvious. He concluded by moving as an amendment, which he would beg leave to propose in the form of a separate clause, That where as by the 40th of the king, in the Irish parliament, commissioners had been appointed for the purpose of recompensing the claims of the proprietors of places, ceasing to. return persons to serve in parliament; and that it was probable that similar claims may be hereafter made to the imperial parliament in case of the abolition of boroughs; be it therefore enacted, That no such claims shall be admitted, unless the person or persons claiming shall swear they have not, directly or indirectly, been guilty of bribery or corruption.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he thought such a grant should not pass without some observations of approval. He thought every case should stand upon its own footing and foundation. Although he had no personal acquaintance with Dr. Cartwright, he believed, from what he had heard of him, that, as far as ingenuity and integrity went, there was no individual more entitled to the bounty of the kingdom. He had witnessed, for many years, his perseverance for the good of the public, and lamented the undeserved return he had met with from that popular prejudice which had prevented him deriving any benefit from his invention. He was, therefore, glad to find that public favour was now about to be so rightly and justly bestowed in counteracting the effects of ignorance and prejudice. The vote proposed had his perfect concurrence.Mr. W. Smith
 expressed in strong terms his approbation of the measure, and observed, that it was highly honourable in his right hon. friend to have attended to this subject, amidst such a variety of avocations. Many of the inferior clergy suffered the most extreme hardships, and the vote was equally gratifying to the feelings and to the judgment. He then adverted to the scandalous fact that in many places, particularly in the large towns, the poorer classes had not the means of attending public worship. Some remedy ought to be applied, and for this purpose, he thought the building of churches ought to be facilitated. The expense and other circumstances formed at present very powerful obstacles.Mr. Wilberforce
924 rose and said:—Sir, the house having decided that the clauses, which relate to the allotting of petty officers and seamen's pay, should stand as part of this bill, it is lay duty to bow to their decision; but it is not less my duty to endeavour by every means in my power, to render this allotment as little prejudicial to the service, and as little unjust and onerous to the petty officer and seaman as possible. It is with that hope that I present a clause, by way of rider to this bill.—Sir, as the bill now stands, no person allotting his pay under it, can, if he should marry, make any allowance or provision whatever for his wife. This is cruel and unjust, and will tend to encourage desertion; as a man must either desert or be discharged, sick, to the hospital to get rid of his present allotment. The clause I have to offer is to enable him to revoke his allotment, when he should see occasion; this will render the evil less, but it doth not do away the objection of increasing the labour and responsibility of the captain or commander of his majesty's ships. This bill, unlike most others which relate to the navy, imposes severe fines and penalties independant of the articles of war or naval instructions, it augments the already too much loaded accounts of the
924Sir C. Pole
926 considered the attack of the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the juries of this country the greatest libel he had ever heard uttered, when he said that juries were not to be entrusted with the character of men in public situations.
926Sir John Anstruther
 took the opportunity of taking a view of our relations with the powers on the continent, and doubted the propriety of assisting Austria with money; he objected, at all events, to our binding ourselves to discharge the bills already drawn by that power upon us, without any authority. With respect to Spain he thought ministers should take care we had good security for any loan we might advance her; and adopt the most effectual steps for guarding her fleets at Cadiz, and elsewhere, from falling into the hands of Buonaparté. He hoped at all events, that ministers would be able to give an account to the country of so large a vote of credit, as was now about to be trusted to their disposal.Sir T. Turton
 did not object to this resolution, but observed, that a part of queen Anne's Bounty had been applied to other than purposes strictly clerical. He also remarked that a great many of the small livings were in the possession of rich pluralists, who could have no need of the augmentation.Lord Milton
, as one of the persons alluded to by the hon. gent., and whom he wished to disqualify from holding seats in that house, begged to say a few words.—The hon. gent. had proposed no practical amendment to the great influence of which he complained. That house consisted of 658 members, and the measure suggested by the hon. gent. would not go farther than to disqualify 25 of them, which was a number so small that it could not make any sensible alteration in the constitution or the decisions of that house. He had occasion to state a few days ago, that the number of placemen now in parliament was less by 18 or 19, than it was in the year 1781. He had since found that in fact there were about 25 or 26 less than at the former period. When the hon. gent. spoke of the unobserved influence of the crown, he certainly had forgotten, or perhaps not attended to the statement he had then made. The diminution of the influence of the crown over the members of that house was still greater in respect of this, which was called the unobserved influence, than in the ostensible places granted by the government. Formerly, valuable bonuses in loans, lotteries, and contracts, used to be given to the members of that house; and nothing was more common than members having the profits of offices held in other names, and of which none but the ministers, or those immediately about them, knew any thing. There were probably, in former times, above 50 or 60 members who thus enjoyed concealed favours from the crown. As to the king's immediate household, or grooms of the bedchamber, he had never heard of their influencing the decisions of that house. He believed that at present there was but one amongst them who was a member of the house of commons. As to the provisions so often spoken of in the Act of Settlement, they were immediately found to be impracticable, and that serious inconveniences would result from them; and therefore this part of the Act of Settlement was very soon repealed. It appeared to him, upon the whole, that if the increasing influence of the crown was what the hon. gent. complained of, he had not pointed out a sufficient remedy.Mr. Rose
945944 said, that, as the hon. gent. had begun his speech by saying, that he could not conceive any possible objection to his motion,
945944The Chancellor of the Exchequer
933l. observed, that, if the house should be of opinion that nothing improper had been done by the Treasury, the usual and ordinary course of proceeding would be to pass to the other orders of the day, or to resort to the previous question. The first question for the house to consider was, whether the act of the Treasury was legal; the next if it was blameable. The hon. gent. who had brought forward the Resolutions had not gone so far as to say that the act was illegal: he was therefore justified in assuming that it was legal. As to the propriety of the act, he had to observe, that when the present administration came into office, the house had been separated from the office of judge-advocate, and a compensation of 500933l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
948 said, he felt not the least difficulty in agreeing with the motion proposed. It seemed to him, that after the Report of the Committee of Finance upon this subject, and the consideration given to that Report in the course of last week, if they were to negative this motion it would be almost saying to the country, that they were to disregard totally that part of the Report; a proceeding which would be most impolitic, injurious, and improvident. He was not prepared to say what offices or sinecures ought to be abolished; at the same time he could venture to say, that his views of the subject did not coincide entirely with those who had spoken, though he was convinced that something should be done. To say that it was only necessary to exclude the members holding official situations, from that house, shewed an ignorance of the constitution, and the manner in which the government was carried on. Before the Revolution the government was conducted out of parliament; but since the Revolution the practice of the constitution was, that it should be conducted in parliament, and principally in that house. It was essential, therefore, that the servants of government should be there in person. What use, however, could there be of persons who had places holding seats in parliament if they had no business to do there? Of this description were the officers referred to by his noble friend.—As to sinecures or pensions for life, he thought it not fair to extend the principle of exclusion to all who might hold such appointments. In this country rewards for services were conferred in various ways, and to some persons it might be more gratifying, that the reward should descend to their families than be enjoyed by themselves. Would it not be hard, that in a case of this kind, the person enjoying such reward should be excluded from parliament, though altogether independent of the crown. He himself held a place for life, in lieu of his seat on the Chancery Bench in Ireland. He was not, however, under any obligation, to the crown for it; he held it under an act of parliament. He could not, therefore, agree, that all persons holding situations for life should be ex-
948Mr. Ponsonby
 explained, that he did not mean that pensioners had no common interest with the people, but that they had an interest separate and distinct from die interest of the people.Lord Folkestone
951950949 said, that he could by no means agree with the hon. mover in the premises he had laid down, and of course it could not be expected that he should agree in his conclusion. He could neither agree with him, that the influence of the crown over that house had increased in a great and unparalleled degree, nor could he agree with him in supposing that it would be advantageous to reduce the number of placemen in that house. There was one pare of the original argument which was now abandoned. It was no longer insisted that the number of placemen in that house had increased of late years; and it had been correctly stated by a noble lord (H. Petty) that far less than a century ago, the number of placemen in that house was in a proportion of at least five to one greater than at present. It would no longer be contended that the number of placemen in parliament had in-
951950949Mr. Secretary Canning
953l.952 expressed the particular disadvantage under which he rose to reply to the commander of so many legions, as he presumed the right hon. gent. who last addressed them was. For his own pan, he admitted, that his knowledge of the constitution was principally derived from the Statute Book. He was of opinion that the commons house of parliament ought to be a full and fair representation of the people; and so thinking, he could not but consider that argument as most extraordinary, which defended the defects in the representation of the people, upon the ground that there were at present in that house many persons who, under a reformed system, would not be returned. What was this, but to assert that there were representatives of the people as the house was now constituted, who had not only a separate, but a contrary interest to that of the people? Amongst the many evils which the defective state of the national representation engendered, there were none more grievous than the obligation under which the house frequently was placed to resort to palliatives for the purpose of staying the evil; an evil which admitted of no palliative. It had been stated by a right hon. and learned gent. (Mr. Ponsonby,) in illustration of a principle, that he, though holding a pension in right of his late office (that of Lord Chancellor for Ireland) still held that pension totally independent of the crown. Now, he must own, that in his view, both the principle and the practice of conferring
953l.952Sir Francis Burdett
 reprobated the proposition of excluding official characters from that house, as replete with evils of serious magnitude. The noble lord had determined to vote however for the Resolution, under the impression, that there might possibly be a description of persons holding places and enjoying pensions, whom it would be proper to remove from that house.Lord Porchester
 in explanation stated, that the hon. baronet must know that in the nature of things it was impossible, that a Chancellor could remain in office who differed wholly in his political views from the other members of the king's government.Mr. Ponsonby
946 rose, in consequence of the last observation which had fallen from the right hon. member, who appeared to him to have fallen into a great mistake. The confusion of the right hon. gent. seemed to consist in this. Many of those who held sinecures and pensions for life, when they voted against a particular administration, conceived they shewed a great deal of independence, and that therefore they were very fit and proper men to sit in that house. This was not, however, the sort of independence which he thought should
946Lord Folkestone
 expressed himself of the same opinion. He was far from thinking the influence of the crown had increased in that house; on the contrary, he thought it less now than at any former period. Unless the house saw some great and effectual remedy would be the consequence, to pledge themselves to a measure of this kind, would be a delusion of the people, especially of those who wished to see placemen excluded. There were many cases, in which only a choice of evils was left. It was different here. For his own part, he knew the good effects of the present system. The country had long flourished under it, and he for one would not easily consent to change it. The present measure he viewed as a mere palliative, which could produce nothing but delusion. He should, therefore, give it his negative.Mr. Hawkins Browne
 proposed a Resolution with some verbal alterations from that of Mr. Martin, to which the latter acceded, and withdrew his own.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed this amendment, because it would involve the abolition of all Sinecures, which, as the means of rewarding public service, was a fundamental principle of this constitution: nor could he concur in the latter part of his honourable friend's proposition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the argument of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If the means of remuneration for efficient public service, which Sinecures afforded, were done away, some other resource for that purpose ought obviously to be provided. Then, how was public economy to be promoted by adopting the recommendation for putting an end to the existence of Sinecures? In fact, there were only eight or nine Sinecures, which formed the fund from which his majesty was enabled to reward the great officers of state. Much, then, as these Sinecures were abused, he put it to the Committee how a cheaper fund was to be devised. He put it to his hon. friend whether he would object to the provision of any due reward for those who, without wealth, might have rendered important public services to the state.Mr. Secretary Canning
 concurred in the argument of his noble friend (H. Petty), being perfectly persuaded that if the crown were deprived of the means of rewarding public service which Sinecures afforded, such a system of pensions would follow as would make those persons lament the change who were now most anxious for the abolition of Sinecures. The right hon. gent. recommended strongly a revision of the system acted upon by Deputies in certain offices connected with the administration of justice in Ireland, which system was at present a very serious abuse to suitors, and particularly to the poorer class.Mr. Ponsonby
 gave notice that he would propose a Resolution at another opportunity, to the effect, that Sinecures were an expedient mode of remunerating public service.Lord Ossulston
960 promised to consider the
960Mr. R. Dundas
l.l. defended his claim and the consequent grant, upon the ground that an official residence was as fairly the claim of the President of the Board of Controul, as of sir Charles Morgan, when judge-advocate-general. The Treasurer of the Navy, the Paymaster of the Forces, the secretary to the Admiralty, the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland, and many other public officers, enjoyed the same advantage. Besides, the hon. gent. had argued erroneously, in saying, that such a grant was illegal, for the same act of parliament, which limited the appropriation of 5,000l.l.Mr. R. Dundas
l. felt it necessary, as the death of sir C. Morgan had happened whilst he had a seat at the Treasury beard, to state to the house the reason why the house had not then been given to the judge-advocate. It had been found convenient and necessary to occupy the apartments over the Treasury, which had been appropriated to the home department, for the accommodation of the growing establishment of the Treasury. It was then deemed expedient to remove the office of the secretary for the home department to the house in question. A compensation of 500l.Lord H. Petty
947l. did not conceive that the reduction of placemen in that house would produce much effect. The increase of the influence of the crown was principally from the increased patronage in the revenue, the army, and navy, but did not appear directly upon the members of that house. Though the influence of the crown, upon the whole, had greatly increased, it had rather diminished in that house. The immense military force, and the expenditure of the country, were the causes of this increased influence, which, though it did not operate so much in that house, had a great effect on the country at large. His hon. friend would agree with him, that the inflence of the crown, instead of increasing, had diminished in that house, when he stated that in 1738 the number of persons having places and pensions under the crown amounted to 234, having among them an income from the public purse of 212,000947l.Lord H. Petty
 was of opinion, that if Sinecures were removed some other means of remuneration for public services ought to be provided. But upon the utmost reflection, he would lather prefer the existence of Sinecures, believing as he did that, notwithstanding the mistaken odium attaching to them, if they were abolished, larger pensions would be granted, and consequently greater burthens imposed and entailed upon the public. He was, however, free to confess, that there were some Sinecures, particularly in the West Indies, which ought to be done away. But as to the Sinecures to which he would apply his rule, unless the principle of reward for public services, to which no man who had a just conception of the public interest could object, were actually set aside, it was absurd to deprecate the existence of those Sinecures which furnished the means of that reward.Lord H. Petty
l.l. appealed to the hon. gent., (Mr. Bankes) who was then chairman of the committee of finance, whether immediately on his retiring from office, he had not suggested to him the propriety of recommending the increase of the salaries of some offices, and particularly of that of the President of the Board of Controul. But though the salary was too small, he did not think the house should sanction the addition to it in the shape of a grant of a house. For his own part, he thought the transaction illegal, because the act gave only 5,000l.l.Mr. Tierney
 said, that as the Resolution was now worded it would prejudge the question, but he thought with a slight alteration that objection could be got rid of. If his hon. friend would limit his motion to a resolution, that the house should in the next session of parliament enter into the consideration of the subject alluded to in his notice, he should agree to the motion. Although he was not for yielding to popular clamour, yet if the public opinion evidently sat in one direction, he thought it ought not to controul absolutely the decisions of that house, but that it should induce them to consider that subject with peculiar attention. This matter, however, did not originate from popular clamour, or from any thing which took place out of doors; it was from an act of the house itself; from a Report of a Committee which they had appointed to investigate this particular business. Upon that ground, he thought the house might very properly pledge itself to take into consideration early in the next session, a report of one of their own committees. They would be only pledged to consider the subject, but not pledged as to the manner they were to determine OH it. He thought that some of the placemen mentioned ought not to sit in parliament; but he disagreed with many people, in thinking there could be any sound objection to sinecure placemen and pensioners, who had their appointments for life. They were just as independent as any other men: and the late administration were constantly opposed by many persons of that description, and the present administration by some.Mr. Tierney
934 admitted that the right hon. gent. had made the communication he alluded to, at the time he stated, but as the Committee had been appointed for the purpose of inquiring what retrenchments could be made in offices and sinecures, he did not think that it came within the purpose for which it had been appointed, to recommend an increase of the salary of any office. He thought the mode of augmenting salaries by granting houses was the worst, the most absurd, and most prodigal manner, in which that could be done. It generally cost the public double or treble the amount of the increase in contemplation. He was of opinion that it was contrary to the intention and the meaning of the act of parliament, that such an appropriation as that under consideration should have been made.934Mr. Bankes
 thought every unnecessary office ought to be abolished, and that the salary of every office executed by deputy, should be reduced to that actually paid to such deputy. The hon. gent. proposed an Amendment to that effect.Mr. Bankes
 was undoubtedly of opinion, that no money ought to be paid by the public, but for the public duty actually performed, and it was known that there were no less than 120 or 130 offices highly objectionable on this ground.Mr. Bankes
958l. called the attention of the Committee to the Sinecure Offices attached to the courts of law, which he stated to amount to 26,000958l.Mr. Henry Martin
, in supporting the Amendment of his hon. friend (Mr. Bankes), adverted particularly to the Sinecures in Scotland and the West Indies, which could not be comprehended in the description of those alluded to by the right hon. gent. who spoke last. His impression was, that the amount and application of all Sinecures ought to be known to the house, with a view to reform and abolish such as were objectionable. Indeed, he was free to say, that Sinecures were not a convenient way of rewarding public services.Mr. H. Thornton
 corrected the mistake of the right hon. gent. as to the Report of the Committee, which mistake proceeded from the offices alluded to being placed under the general head of "Sinecures and offices executed partly or wholly by deputy."Mr. H. Thornton
954 thought the hon. gent. who brought forward the motion, had laid no grounds for his proposition that should induce the house to entertain it at present. It was open to him to give notice for the next session, but at present they had not
954Mr. Pole Carew
 protested against the libels which he too often heard uttered against the laws and constitution of the country—a constitution under which the people enjoyed a greater participation of civil blessings than any other empire in the world. The hon. baronet, he was sorry to say, saw nothing but deformities, and was wholly led away by a predilection for dry abstract propositions. He could not vote for the proposed Resolution, brought forward at a time when the general purity of public management was so universally admitted (a laugh).Mr. Ellison
59Majority against it
59Majority against it113Against it
113Against it54For the Motion
54For the Motion
59Majority against it
59Majority against it113Against it
113Against it54For the Motion
54For the Motion957956955 said, he would beg leave to trouble the house with a very few observations, in answer to what had fallen from some of those hon. members who had opposed his motion. Notwithstanding all that had been said with respect to the impropriety of agreeing with his Resolution, on the ground that it would, in effect, go to prejudge the main question, he contended, that the course he had pursued was the ordinary course of proceeding when a measure was considered by any member necessary, and the existing session was too far spent for its discussion then. The house had a precedent in the Bill brought forward to regulate the office of Treasurer of the Navy. Two hon. members had adverted to the characteristic purity of those times, and in the fervour of their ejaculations almost appeared to feel that it was heaven itself; yet, notwithstanding all their encomiums upon the purity of public men, he (Mr. Whitbread) must say, that he was anxious to apply a little correction to them, not to the hon. members personally (a laugh), but as constituting a part of the house of commons.—He next reviewed the objections of the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Canning,) and contended, that such was the purity, as it was called, of those times, that even the Chair was obliged to endure from the right hon. gent. and his colleagues, admissions and justifications which in other times, in the days of Mr. Dunning, would not be tolerated. The right hon. gent. he supposed could not have been present at the whole of his (Mr. Whitbread's) speech, or he would never have spoken as he had lately done. So far from having an idea of excluding the members of the administration from the house of commons, he had expressly said it was his wish that a liberal portion should be allowed to sit there. Yet there were offices the holders of which ought to be excluded from parliament; and there were persons in that house who were only there for the mere purpose of giving direct influence to government. His right hon. colleague who preceded him (Mr. Perceval) had said, that no such expressions had been used in former times as were on the present occasion. This he (Mr. Whitbread) denied. Could it be supposed that when Mr. Dunning introduced his bill against the influence of the crown, expres-
59Majority against it
59Majority against it113Against it
113Against it54For the Motion
54For the Motion
59Majority against it
59Majority against it113Against it
113Against it54For the Motion
54For the Motion957956955Mr. Whitbread
943942941940939938937936935 rose for the purpose of submitting to the house the proposition of which he had given notice, and to which he could not anticipate the slightest rational objection. It was his intention to have pressed this proposition on a former night, if he had not been induced to withdraw it on that occasion, in consequence of the suggestions of several members, that they were not prepared to discuss the question then, as it had come upon them by surprise. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared himself ready to meet the question in that instance, and to give a direct negative to a Resolution, that it was desirable still further to limit the number of persons, holding places, or pensions, or sinecures, having seats in that house. That right hon. gent. could not have forgotten the foundation of the reference to the Committee of Finance on this subject, which reference had grown out of a proposition of a noble lord (lord Cochrane) now member for Westminster, submitted to that house on the 7th of July 1807. The ground upon which the noble lord had brought forward that proposition, was the impression upon his own mind, that the influence of the crown in that house was considerable, and a conviction, that, according to the opinion of the public, the influence, of the crown in parliament was too great; that the corruptions which were known to exist, were the necessary consequence of that influence; and that a solemn investigation was necessary in order to ascertain by what constitutional means means it could be reduced. With a view to this investigation, the noble lord h id moved for a return of all the places, pensions, sinecures, offices, or emoluments under government, enjoyed by persons having seats in that house, or by their immediate connections. The right hon. gent. however, generalized the proposition of the noble lord, in the reference he made to the Committee, directing it to report upon all sinecures, pension, &c. distinguishing those held by members of parliament. It was said at the time, that the object of the right hon. gent. was to slur over the matter, and to mix it with other considerations, in such a manner, that it would be impossible to come to any distinct decision upon the real
943942941940939938937936935Mr. Whitbread
eo nomine;932 observed, that it was not so necessary for the President of the Board of Controul to have an official residence, as it was for the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland. He contended, that it was an abuse to have suffered sir Charles Morgan, after he had ceased to be judge-advocate, to continue in the house during the remainder of his life. Had the judge-
eo nomine;932Mr. Whitbread
l.l.l.l.929l.l.,l. presented a Petition from the Rev. Thomas Humphries, clerk, perpetual curate of the churches of All Saints in Sawley, otherwise Sallow, of St. Lawrence in Long Eaton, and of St. Chad in Wilne, in the parishes of Sawley and Wilne, in the county of Derby, setting forth, "That the advowson and impropriation of Sawley, otherwise Sallow, Long Eaton, and Wilne, is part of the very valuable endowment of the prebend of Sawley, founded in the cathedral church of Litchfield, the benefit of which prebend is extended also into the adjoining parish of Risley, but neither the cure of the chapel of Risley nor of the chapel of Breason, now annexed to Risley, though part of the parish, of Sawley, is any burthen to the prebendary; and stating the great increase in value of the said prebend which has taken place of late years; particularly in consequence of an inclosure of the common fields in the manor of Draycot, in the parish of Wilne, and which amounts to an estate in lands and tithes of the clear annual value of 2,400l.l.l.l.929l.l.,l.Mr. Whitbread
l.l.l.931l.l.l.930l. rose to bring forward his promised resolution respecting the appropriation of a sum of 9,000l.l.l.931l.l.l.930l.Mr. Creevey
 maintained, that according to the Bill of Mr. Burke, which had been referred to by the hon. mover of the Amendment, Sinecures, as furnishing the means of reward for public service, should not be done away without providing a substitute.Mr. Huskisson
l. protested against the latitude of the doctrine laid down in the debate upon the subject of Sinecures, and quoted the authority of various Reports from committees of that house, combined with the opinions of some of the best men the country had known, to sustain his objection. In point of fact, those Sinecures were not applied to reward public services, but to gratify ministerial favouritism, which rendered their existence still more objectionable. The hon. member read a list of Sinecures in Ireland, to the amount of 26,000l.Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that in considering Sinecures, their effect on the public mind was to be kept in view. He still thought that this was the most economical way of rewarding public service, but if retained, these sinecures ought to be placed in a clear and distinct light, so that neither the object nor amount could be mistaken.Mr. Wilberforce
 entered into en explana- of the circumstances that gave rise to an official residence being given to the Irish Chancellor of the Exchequer.Sir J. Newport
 moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Irish Revenue Regulation Bill; and the question having been put that the bill be now read the third time,Mr. Foster
 hoped, that as the objections of the right hon. baronet were directed solely against a particular clause in the bill, he would be content to take the sense of the house upon that clause, instead of opposing the whole bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
963 denied that the clause was intended for such a purpose as that of screening defaulters. It was merely a clause in compliance with a conditional promise made to certain officers, of whose guilt there was no practical proof to be obtained, but who, on the condition of indemnity, had fully acknowledged the facts, and explained how a repetition of such fraud might in future be prevented. He had himself repeatedly stated to the house, that the pay of the excise officers in Ireland was too small for their maintenance, and consequently exposed them to the temptation of bribery from brewers and distillers, over whose works they were placed in the way of their duty. Such were the temptations held out to them, that they had not the fortitude to resist: and so universally and notoriously did the traffic prevail amongst every description of excise officers in every part of Ireland, that the frauds upon the revenue were to an incalculable amount. This appeared upon examination before the Commissioners of inquiry in Ireland. It was, in fact, so generally the usage, that the excise officers conceived there was no crime, or breach of duty, in a matter at which they supposed their superiors connived in consideration of the known inadequacy of their salaries to their maintenance. It was recommended by the Commissioners of inquiry, as the best means of rendering those officers honest and faithful for the future, that their salaries should be increased; and as the defalcations were almost universal, and committed almost without the consciousness of criminality, it was proposed, that an amnesty should be given for all that had passed, upon the strong assurance that under the increased salaries, no such acts should take place for the future: or if they did, that they should be instantly followed by dismissal and the severest penalties. What would
963Mr. Foster
 explained, by saying, that these frauds were not. chargeable on all the branches of the revenue, but merely on the excise; that the act of 1806 limited the time of prosecution for all crimes designated there, to three months after the fact; that the indemnity proposed by this bill came down no lower than January 1808; and that for all such offences since committed, the parties would still be liable to a prosecution.Mr. Foster
965 expressed his wonder that such a clause should receive the sanction of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, contrary as it was to all the principles usually respected in that house. It was unsupported by any precedent in former amnesty bills; for it went to extend pardon not only to the comparative few who appeared to have acknowledged their guilt, but to the thousands who never make any acknowledgment at all; so that the house had no mode of measuring the indefinite extent of criminality which they were called on to vote. It was a direct attack on public morality, and held out encouragement to the revenue officers in England, to commit the like offence, for surely it was quite impossible the right hon. gent. would follow up with pains and penalties, the same class of persons in England for frauds on the revenue, in violation of their trust, or even against poor wretches defrauding the revenue, otherwise having no place of trust, but equally pleading the inadequacy of their incomes to the support of their families; while the revenue officers of Ireland, notoriously, and
965Sir Samuel Romilly
 was somewhat surprized at the indignation assumed by his hon. and learned friend at this clause, after the explanation which had been given; and spoke at some length in support of the clause upon the same ground as Mr. Foster. No man, he said, could for a moment seriously suppose that the clause was intended to sanction corruption or criminality, but merely to prevent the recurrence of similar abuses, without that inconvenience to the public service which the immediate dismissal of all the excise officers in Ireland must occasion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
966 gave ministers credit for the best intentions in supporting this clause, but thought they would be woefully disappointed in the result. In relation to the continuance of those fraudulent officers, with the hope of reform, he should be guided by the old proverb; "Never
966Mr. Marryat
 said, that the doctrine in support of the clause went to libel the country. If it went abroad, it would give an idea that there were no honest men to be found there; and if the members for Ireland did not condemn it, they would deserve the reprobation of their countrymen.Mr. Hutchinson
973l.l.972l.971: As the state of the India Company must soon force itself on the attention of parliament, not-
973l.l.972l.971Mr. Howorth.—Mr. Speaker
 contended, that if the word objected to by the noble lord were to be left out, the clause would be monstrous, and no person who might be returned after a contested election, could have any security, if he had at any time within the preceding seven years procured an office for a friend, that it might or would not be charged upon him as having been obtained with a view to the election. He was therefore of opinion that the word should stand in the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
977 thought that nothing could be more puerile, or preposterous, than the bill with this expression in the clause. He contended, that neither a jury, nor a committee of that house, on their oaths, would put any but the fair construction
977Lord Porchester
 argued in support of the clause as it stood. He did not think that any very serious danger could result from its operation, because the administration could not possibly have at their disposal places enough to barter for all the seats for boroughs; but if they had, they could not do better than to give them to the friends of their opponents, and then they might get rid of them altogether. On the whole, he thought the particular wording of the clause absolutely necessary to the efficiency of the bill to its object; because the great purpose for which it had been brought in was to prevent the wholesale disposal of seats in that house for money.The Solicitor-General
978 thought the bill itself so nugatory, that he felt no interest for its success; but he thought the zeal of the learned gentleman who spoke last had got the better of his prudence, as a member of the government. While he was arguing so strenuously against the amendment, he was always supposing such a corrupt state of things to exist, as absolutely made it necessary for something to be done. The whole effect which his speech had produced upon his mind was to make him think that the amendment against which he had argued ought to be adopted. He seemed to take for granted that the existence of administration was only to be preserved by corruption, which was precisely what this bill proposed to counteract. As to the distinction which had been taken between giving money and giving an office for the purpose of obtaining a seat, he was so far from agreeing with it that his opinion was directly on the other side. The learned gent. had said, that offices might be given innocently, but money never could, and the guilt must necessarily attach to the person giving
978Sir F. Burdett
982981 agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. gent. who spoke last. He thought that it was
982981Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, that in the case alluded to, with respect to the barter of a writership for a seat in parliament, it was determined that the intention of the agreement had not been carried into effect, and that was the cause of the transaction not being punished, which was an acknowledgment, that if it had been carried into effect it would have been punished, and this implied acknowledgment ought therefore to be satisfactory on that head.Mr. Secretary Canning
986 said, he was a friend to parliamentary reform being brought about by moderate means, and as such hailed the present bill with pleasure; but the alterations it had undergone had changed its character, and reduced it to a mere nullity. He had expected much from this bill at the outset, but it had since been so mutilated, and would be so totally changed if the word objected to were retained, that he could not think of supporting the shadow when the substance was gone. He lamented very seriously the conduct of ministers,
986Mr. Lyttleton
 said that under the understanding general on these occasions, he would be better pleased not to divide the house; but if it took place, he would give the same vote he meant to give on the passing of the bill. He was never better satisfied of any thing than of the purity of the hon. member who brought in the bill. But when he found the bill as it now stood contained only three lines and a half of that which was originally brought in, it would do more to destroy the Constitution than any act passed since the Revolution.Mr. Ponsonby
 admitted that he had allowed that the account between the Company and the public had been closed, with respect to the articles which they had under their consideration. Still, however, the Company might prefer a claim, but there might be also a claim on the part of the public to meet it, and till the Indian regimental accounts were audited, it was impossible to say how the matter exactly stood. As to the practices respecting the troops, he had good reason to believe that the hon. gent. was mistaken.Mr. R. Dundas
975 saw no ground for the motion, as there was no charge against the hon. chairman: and, if there was, it did not come under the jurisdiction of that house. The whole of it was, that the hon.
975Mr. R. Dundas
 observed, that the observations of the hon. gent. were premature, as the act of 1793, and the other matters, would come under consideration, when the house was furnished with all the requisite information on the subject. These papers would not comprehend the whole of the question, and it was not therefore upon them alone that it ought to be discussed. He blamed the hon. gent. for censuring the conduct of the Directors, before the necessary documents were before the house.Mr. R. Dundas
l.l.l.l.;l. repeated what he had formerly said, that the house could not properly come to a decision upon these points, till the whole of the circumstances came before it. The agreement in 1793, he observed, went no further than furnishing the private merchant with 3,000 tons of shipping. He next gave a short history of the transactions between the Company and the private merchants. The Company had resisted the project of carrying home produce in India built ships, but in 1802 an arrangement was made by which the Company engaged to furnish the private merchants with English built ships, subject to the regulations of the Company, at the low rate of 14l.l.l.l.;l.Mr. C. Grant,
 made a short explanation of the circumstance, as far as he was concerned, of the establishment of the trade in indigo, from India to this country, of which he was the original promoter, and in the manufacture of which he had embarked a very large capital. Upon his return from India, he had been elected into the office of Director, when no law existed against that board being concerned in trade; afterwards, in 1795, that law was enacted, and he upon that occasion stated his case to the Company, and the consequence was, that, upon two general courts it was agreed, that he did not come within the spirit of the regulation. If he were compelled to choose between his situation as director, and the giving up of his property, he should be compelled to elect the former. He, however, had no objection to the motion.Mr. Grant
 expressed his astonishment, that a British house of commons should be called upon to pass such a clause; but he was still more astonished at the motives for it urged by the right hon. gent., namely, the universality of the offence in every department of the revenue of Ireland; but, most of all, at the circumstance of continuing in their places, and remunerating by advance of salaries, the very officers who, in breach of their trusts and of their oaths, had been one and all, avowedly and for a series of years, defrauding the revenue, and combining and colluding with others to defraud it. Was there no possibility of finding any other men in Ireland with honesty and ability enough to fill the place of these men? If such a fact were possible, but which he could not believe, then there should be men sought in some other part of the united empire.Mr. Horner
 though unwilling to accede to the bill in its present mutilated state, yet would not oppose it for the little good it might effect.Mr. Tierney,
964 was astonished at the introduction of the clause before that house, so contrary as it was to every principle which a British parliament had been used to respect and maintain. He regretted that it should have the support of his right hon. friend the English Chancellor of the Exchequer, and begged to ask what the house would think if such a clause were proposed in that house, to indemnify and protect the excise officers of this country, if it was known that they had entered into combinations to defraud the revenue? These latter would have
964Mr. Bankes
 agreed entirely with his hon. friend, in wishing for the adoption of the bill. The rejection of it might insure ministers a corrupt majority in parliament; the adoption of it would afford the people, at least, a chance of independence. He declared his intention to vote against the insertion of the term "express," although it was his determination to support the bill were that term even admitted to stand part of the clause. There were defects in the bill, which did not arise from the hon. mover, but were introduced from a quarter not equally interested in its success; still, however, he would support it, because it appeared to him to be a declaration of the common law of the land, and a reassertion of the constitution. By the common law of the land, any minister who procured by money seats in parliament was guilty of a breach of the constitution, and punishable by impeachment. He would suppose a consequence of that bill, which he was not inclined to admit in fact, that the entire monopoly of the purchase of seats would be exclusively confined to the ministers. If any minister did act upon such a principle by taking advantage of his exclusive possession of the market, he (Mr. Grattan) was certain that the notoriety would be enough to remove him. He would rather that the whole clause should be expunged than the word "express" should be retained but at all events, he should vote for the bill, as he considered it the restoration of a constitutional principle; the common law was now practically repealed, and it required to be revived by statute. The bill (owing to its modifications) might not immediately produce the benefits intended; but it might operate slowly, and in the end produce such happy consequences. He was in favour of the oath; there were many other clauses which he considered advantageous, but so great was his attachment to the principle, that he would take it even destitute of those provisions.Mr. Grattan
 spoke of the clause in the strongest terms of reprobation, and asked, would the right hon. gent. venture to propose such a clause to that house in protection of the revenue officers of England, if they had been guilty of such crimes? He was a good deal astonished at several of the measures which had passed that house in relation to Ireland, since the administration of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer for that country commenced; but he owned this proposition surprized him more than all the rest, supported as it was by the speech and vote of the right hon. gent. (Mr. Perceval). To continue those fraudulent officers in their places, not only indemnified and protected, but rewarded and encouraged, was beyond every thing he had ever witnessed; and this, too, upon the pretence that men could not be found in Ireland to fill their places. He could not credit the assertion; he knew of no extraordinary talents it required to do the duty of an exciseman. But if no men fit to do these duties were to be found in that country, they should be imported from some other. It was ridiculous to suppose that men in the habit of living by their frauds, at four or five hundreds or thousands a year, could be rendered honest by the addition of thirty or forty pounds to their salaries.Mr. Calcraft
 defended the clause, and said there was no alternative but an immediate dismissal of all the excise officers in Ireland, and the abandonment of the revenue. He would not have voted for it, if it was to defend corruption.Mr. Croker
 declared his determination of supporting the bill even in its present shape, under the hope that it still would be productive of some good, for he could not believe that any ministers would dare to abuse the principle so openly acknowledged by it.Mr. Curwen
980 thought that the adherence of gentlemen to this word, did call very much into question the sincerity of their offers of supporting the bill. From what he had observed of the administrations of the country, the government appeared rather inclined to rule by numbers than by the affection which must result from promoting the happiness of the people. It appeared to him that this word would defeat the main object of the bill, which was to rescue the character of the house, and gain the confidence of the people. He thought the people would construe this clause as a mode of protecting that corruption, which it was intended to destroy. He certainly did think that the corruption of money was of all others the most debasing, but he contended both against the corruption of money and of office. If he could, however, remedy only one of them at present, he thought it was an object
980Mr. Curwen
 in consequence of what had been stated, consented to withdraw his motion, which, after a few words from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who objected to it, as wishing it to be negatived, was agreed to without a division.Mr. Prendergast,
969s.l.l.l.l.l.l.968l.l. rose, to submit to the house a motion for papers which he had made the other day, but which had been withdrawn upon a point of form. As he had before explained himself sufficiently upon the subject, he saw no necessity for entering into it at any great length at this time. He maintained that his statement had not been overturned by any thing that had fallen from the hon. chairman (Mr. Grant). He had stated the law and applied it to the fact, and on both points he was perfectly correct. The hon. chairman had said, that he had derived his information from a memorial of some interested persons. He denied this, and observed, that he had not seen that memorial till after he had given his notice. The hon. gent. then entered more particularly into a statement of the grievances under which the Private Trader laboured, from the conduct of the Directors. He read the Order which they had sent out to India, in 1803, as to the rates of freight with which the private merchant was to be charged; which were, 11969s.l.l.l.l.l.l.968l.l.Mr. Prendergast
974l. observed, that he stated facts from unquestionable authority. The hon. chairman had said, that the Company was by law obliged to furnish only 3,000 tons of shipping. He had understood, however, they were obliged to furnish as much as the private merchant might find necessary to carry home his produce. He always understood that the quantity was to be regulated by the demand. The act on that point spoke for itself. He was surprised to hear the hon. chairman say, that the extra ships were only charged at the rate of 14974l.Mr. Prendergast
 afterwards, alluding to the circumstance he had mentioned on the former night, of the dismissal of Mr. Samuel Middleton, a servant of the Company, for being concerned in the trade of indigo, while the chairman of the Court of Directors (Mr. Grant) was allowed to bring that article home from India, in violation of the bye-law, that no Director should be concerned in any trading speculation, and considering what he conceived a partiality, as likely to produce an ill effect on the respect which ought to be kept up for all the transactions of the Company, moved "That there be laid before the house a copy of the Oath of office taken by the Court of Directors; the bye-laws of the Company, prohibiting any trade being carried on by any director; the bye-law making an exception in favour of Mr. Grant; and the Minutes of the Resolution of the governor and Council of Bengal on the subject."Mr. Prendergast
 contended, that every paper ought to be laid on the table that tended to throw any light on the state of the India trade. He strongly objected to the notion, that the question was not to be discussed till the Company came to the house for a renewal of their charter. If no information was to be given till then, the private merchants would be left completely in the dark, and very hardly dealt by.Mr. Peter Moore
 declared, he had taken an active part in promoting the bye-law, which excluded all concerned in trade from the directory; if any one arraigned that, it should be in the India house, and not there. The fact was, the hon. chairman was not concerned in trading, but merely brought home the produce of his estate, like any other property. He advised the hon. mover to withdraw his motion, and apply himself to the India house, where he would find justice.Mr. Peter Moore
985984983 said, that if the object of the right hon. gent., was merely to entertain the house, and display his great command of the English language, he certainly had accomplished that, object, as he had amused the house, and shewn his power of words; but if he expected to convince any single member of that house that the word "express" ought to be suffered to remain in the clause, he had completely failed. He had concluded by saying, he hoped the hon. gent. (Mr. Curwen,) would have too strong a parental feeling for his bill, to abandon it in consequence of this alteration. Although the original bill might be called the child of the mover, yet if that child had been changed, and another put in its place of very different features and complexion, he did not see that any parental feeling called upon him to adopt what was not so much his own child, as the child of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought light and darkness were not more opposite than the principle of the original bill, and the clause which
985984983Mr. Whitbread
 declared, that not expecting to be present at the third reading of the bill, he took that opportunity of declaring his most decided disapprobation of it as it now stood, as considering it at once scandalous and disgraceful.Mr. Whitbread
 declared, that in the present state of the house, after members had gone away, he would not delay the public business, by dividing it on the question.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that it appeared from papers on the table that the Storekeeper of the Magazine in Hyde Park never filled any military office, and he also understood that he was in possession of a sinecure office. He trusted that he would be removed before the next session: if not, he should feel himself obliged to make a motion to that effect.Mr. Whitbread
 said, if he thought the clause would prevent corruption, he would vote for it; but could it be supposed that men who had been in the habit of receiving large sums from the distillers, and living up to it, would leave their habits for the advance of their salaries? It was contrary to all human probability, and was not to be expected; he Should therefore give the clause his negative.Mr. Babington
l.970l.l.l. maintained, that though the principal facts stated by the hon. gent. were correct, the inference which he drew from them against the directors was wrong. The hon. chairman had stated, that after the extra ships had been diverted from their intended destination for political purposes, the merchants themselves had requested to be allowed to ship their goods on board the regular vessels, upon payment of the same rate of freight as the Company paid, which was 44l.970l.l.l.Mr. Wallace
 conceived that the bill as it stood, if disgraceful to the house, as asserted by his hon. friend, would at least not be so to the bringer in of it. But he considered that the effect of it would be to narrow the entrance into that house, between the Treasury and the popular boroughs.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that the inconveniences which would follow from adopting the Amendment, appeared to him to be far greater than those which would follow from rejecting it. If this word, "express," were inserted in the bill, then it would be found impossible to convict any body under the strongest and clearest circumstances, to prove that guilt, which the object of this bill was to guard against. By leaving this word in the bill, they would be doing nothing less than proclaiming to the people, that offices, titles, situations and contracts, might be used secretly for the purpose of procuring seats in parliament; for unless it should appear to a jury, a judge, or a committee, that an express contract or agreement could be brought forward, no punishment should follow. He thought that when money was excluded from the market, offices, titles, and other favours which ministers had to bestow, would be more operative. If it were once laid down, that money might not be given, but that offices, contracts, and such like might, it could not be denied that these considerations were equally corrupt, and ought equally to be guarded against. He did fear that this one word "express" would do more to increase the influence of the Treasury than the rest of the bill would do to diminish it.Mr. Wilberforce
 was ready to admit, that if the fraudulent officers must necessarily be retained, the clause ought to pass of course; but he denied the necessity, and consequently must oppose it. Not only did he reprobate the idea of indemnifying men who had so grossly betrayed their trust, and defrauded the revenue, but that of retaining those men in their places, after the avowal and proof of such fraud. It taught those men to laugh at government, to set them at defiance, to believe that government could not do without them, and, of course could not dismiss them; and, under such feelings, was it to be expected such men would, for a trifling increase of salary, forego the temptation of gaining five times as much by fraud? and what sort of picture was this to hold out for their brother revenue officers in England?Mr. Windham
 concurred in the same sentiments; and said that the Company had a right to make what regulations and what exceptions they pleased. The case was this: Samuel Middleton, a judicial servant of the Company, had, as such, taken an oath he would not be concerned in any trade whatever; in breach of which he had entered into a trade in the article of indigo; for which he had been dismissed their service. Where, then, was the resemblance between his case and that of the hon. chairman? He was decidedly against the motion.Sir John Anstruther
 had no wish to defeat the whole bill, and was satisfied to rest his opposition upon the final clause.Sir John Newport
962961l. rose to resist a clause in this bill, to which he thought it impossible the house could give their final assent, if they were aware of its object. It was no less than a grant of full amnesty and indemnification to all the excise officers in Ireland, who had for a series of years past, in direct violation of their duty and their oaths, been plundering the revenue of that country (as appeared from the Reports of the Irish committee of inquiry) of no less a sum than 850,000962961l.Sir John Newport
 said that there was a double disadvantage in the corruption by office. The office was badly discharged, and the country had neither an independent member, nor a good officer.Sir John Newport
 was ready to agree to any measure for reforming the existing corruptions, but must unquestionably vote against the clause, if the word "express" were retained.Sir W. Lemon
 moved, that the word "express" should be left out of that clause. The effect of leaving that term in the bill would be to augment the baneful influence of the crown in parliament, by throwing into the patronage of the Treasury all the boroughs of the kingdom. But the bill had been so mutilated in all its parts, and was so ill calculated to effect its professed objects, that although he might succeed in persuading the house to leave out the term to which he objected, he should still feel it his duty to vote against the bill.Lord Milton
 had no idea of gentlemen retiring from their duty as a reason for not taking the sense of the house, where he felt his duly required if, and determined to do it on the present occasion.Lord Milton
 observed, that this office had not been sold during the time of any of the present judges. To reader the person holding the office removable, however, at pleasure, would be to subject him to be removed at the discretion of every senior judge as he went the circuit. It was understood that this office was not in future to be sold.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the idea of refusing to increase the salaries of the Welsh judges might have the effect of starving them out; but that, he was satisfied, was not the wish of his hon. friend. As to the idea of abolishing any part of the judicial establishment in Wales, he had never heard that this was desired by the people of that country.The Attorney General
 dissented from any such idea. Those judicial characters from Wales who had been candidates for seats in parliament, had been the most distinguished persons from that country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 maintained, that for the last thirty years the Welsh judges, with only three exceptions, had been chosen from among gentlemen of the profession who were members of that house.Sir S. Romilly
 saw no occasion for the exclusion.Mr. Lockhart
 objected to the clause, on the ground of there being no necessity for it; and that even a whisper would be sufficient to correct the practice without The aid of an act of parliament.The Attorney General
993 said, he felt himself bound to state his reasons for voting against the bill as it stood at present. When a motion was lately made in that house, to refer to a committee the consideration of the case of a noble lord, charged with, having trafficked for a seat in parliament, the house had rejected the motion, and he had concurred in such rejection, not only because such practices were openly avowed upon that occasion, but because the present bill, in its original shape, had been at that time introduced by his hon. friend; and he had then hoped and believed, that the house would have set itself seriously to the work of purging itself.—However, as it appeared by the event, that the house had not thought proper to redeem the pledge, to which he considered it bound, he could not bring himself to vote for the bill in its present shape. He would agree
993Mr. Abercromby
 declared he would support the bill. He was not one of those who wished for any alteration in the present constitution. He was decidedly of opinion, that if the greatest talents of every age, assisted by every means, and supported by every facility, were to be brought together, they could not form a perfect constitution for any country at once. Evils could only be remedied as they successively arose. On these principles it was that he professed himself a warm admirer of the British constitution, and an enemy to what was popularly called Reform. He entertained the highest admiration of the British constitution, and thought that innovations might give the people more power in the house, as well as elsewhere, than was consistent with its principles. He saw no practical inconvenience from persons coming into parliament by means of their own money. It was in this way that talents and abilities were often introduced into the house; and as the vulgar error which asserted that money was given in order to make money was now exploded, he must say he was sorry this bill was ever entertained. He did not think it necessary to increase the popular influence; on the contrary, he feared that the current was running too strongly in that direction: the people might have too much influence within that house, as they might have elsewhere. He certainly wished the bill had never been introduced; but as it had been brought forward, he would vote for it; because, after it had been admitted, in the course of the discussion, that seats were bought and sold, that house could never without adopting some such measure, go back to the situation it was in, before the introduction of the bill.The Secretary at War
997 observed, that as the hon. and learned gent. had not produced his clauses to the house, it was not necessary for him to enter into the discussion of them. From what he could collect, however, from the hon. gent's. speech, it appeared to him to involve very novel regulations as to the election law, as founded on the Grenville Act. His clauses would introduce, for the first time, into that law, litigation by the common informer; and no member of that house could any day come down to his duty, without feeling it necessary to inquire whether any petition existed against him. The hon. and learned gent, had said, and upon the authority of an hon. and learned gent, not then in his place, that the word "express" was not to be found in any act of parliament. What, he would ask, would the house think upon this subject, if it should appear, notwithstanding all these learned authorities, that the word
997The Solicitor General
1011 felt extreme surprise that the gentlemen who in former stages of this bill professed themselves its supporters, should now evince a disapprobation of it as not tending to effect what they had first in view. In this particular, the character imputed to it in its present state was an extremely unjust one; and the hon. gent. who first introduced it, I however he might feel disappointed in not carrying all his object into effect, yet acted with perfect consistency in assenting to it even in its present shape. What some gentlemen had said as to its not being adequate to the suppression of what was intended by the hon. gent., he did not really comprehend. The hon. gent, who originated the measure, had been himself convinced of the propriety of leaving out the oath, and therefore he thought that the amendments which he had proposed to the bill, were by no means of the nature that had been ascribed to them. The only material amendment in which the hon. member did not concur, was in the insertion of the word "express" as to the agreements respecting offices. He could say most sincerely that he had no other object in this amendment, than preventing persons from innocently incurring severe penalties. He so little thought that his amendments deserved the character which had been given of them, that those who
1011The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1004100310021001 rose to say a very few words upon the subject of this bill. The measure appeared to him to be wholly inefficient as to the provision of any adequate remedy of the abuses, if not universally, at least generally, admitted to exist. It would not, however, be inefficient for the purpose of screening corruption; and upon this ground he thought it ought to be called "A Bill for granting indemnity for past corruption, and for providing security for future corruption." He had been called up, however, particularly by the insinuations of the hon. gent. who had just sat down against the advocates of reform. He did not mean to say that he was insensible to these insinuations, or that he was not included among those to whom the hon. gent.'s inuendos and observations were intended to apply. But before he should proceed to take any further notice of these insinuations, he had one observation to make upon the hon. gent.'s arguments. In these he appeared to answer himself. In the assertion of the hon. gent., that political power should be connected with property, he entirely concurred, and the establishment of that connection was the great object for which he contended. But the hon. gent, had no sooner laid down this principle broadly, than he drew this corollary from it, that places which no longer retain any property, should still continue to possess a share of the representation, and consequently of political power. The two propositions were irre-concileable. The hon. gent. disdained that he should be thought a friend to corruption, and yet defended a system, which was the living source, the salient spring of all the corruption that existed in the state. He could not perceive what idea the hon. gent. had of corruption. But when the hon. gent. said that it was contrary to the principles of human nature that a man should take an office and not afterwards vote for the person who had procured it for him, he seemed to have a very strange notion of corruption in excepting such a case. What! was it not corruption, if the vote was to be given for a bribe received? and could it make any differ-
1004100310021001Sir Francis Burdett
998 would have delivered his sentiments upon this measure, at some earlier stage of its progress, if he could have caught the Speaker's eye. He thought it extraordinary that any man, who valued the prosperity of this country, could suppose that this was not a subject fit for the consideration of the house. Several gentlemen had delivered opinions adverse to the principle of the bill; but he should not consider himself as faithful to his duty, if he did not protest against such doctrines. It had been said that this measure was an experiment; but was there not a more dangerous, a more alarming, and a more extensive experiment existing in the continuance of those abuses which this bill was intended to prevent? What would be the situation of that house, if no measure were to be adopted for correcting those corrupt practices which were universally admitted to exist? It was the duty of the members of that house, to see, either that the charge was unfounded, or to take care, that the practice should be altered. He had been a warm advocate for the bill, as it had at first been introduced;
998Lord A. Hamilton
 proposed a clause for preventing any one of the judges of the principality of Wales from practising as a lawyer during the period he ought to be going the assize.Mr. Horner
992 strongly opposed the bill. In considering the present system of representation, as compared with the past scenes of our history, he was persuaded that there was so much virtue to be found, as should make them tender, at least, in applying remedies, without being enabled to foresee the consequences, which, according to the event, might turn out good or bad. Any change in the constitution of a branch of the legislature ought to be attempted with the greatest circumspection, for it was difficult, if not impossible, to anticipate the bad effects which might result from causes apparently of little importance. In illustration of this opinion, he instanced the Mutiny act, which no one on its introduction could have been aware would give a paramount power in the go-
992Mr. Johnstone
1014mutatis mutandis,l.1013l.1012 agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that before the house Would rise that night, some one or other of its members would be exposed to imputations for insincerity of conduct in the progress of the bill then pending. He would not attempt to anticipate the public opinion, or say who would be the objects of
1014mutatis mutandis,l.1013l.1012Mr. Tierney
 proposed a clause for prohibiting Welsh judges from holding seats in parliament.Mr. Bankes
 objected to the increase to the salaries of the Chief Justices in Wales. In this he was supported by Mr. Abercrombie, and opposed by Mr. Perceval and Mr. Ryder.—The clause was carried.Mr. Bankes
989 objected to the increase of the salaries of the Welsh Judges generally on the ground of the inutility of the continuance of the four circuits in that country, and of its having been recommended by one of the reports of the Finance Committee to turn the whole into one. The effect of the present increase to all the judges would only be, in the event of an
989Mr. Bankes
 proposed a clause to prevent the sale of the office of Clerk of Assize, and to render it an office during pleasure, in-instead of being as at present, during life.Mr. Bankes
994 declared himself in favour of the bill; although not as a warm friend to it, as having been altered so materially for the worse, in the course of its passage through the house. When doubts were found to exist respecting the purchase of seats, was it fair they should be left in the same state, especially when any thing which would have placed those matters on the footing of certainty might have been enacted and would have rendered so material a service? The bill certainly, as declaratory of the principle and of the law, he considered a good one, and so far desirable; and though the clauses which had been introduced tended in some degree to defeat the object of it, yet he trusted the publicity given to that object would serve to put down the practice it professed to abolish. If the will was evinced by that house, it must certainly have that effect. One complaint was, that the great personages of the state were engaged in the traffic for seats; and with what face could they notice the minor offences of electors taking bribes for their votes, when such a traffic was notorious?994Mr. H. Thornton
100710061005 rose and said: Mr. Speaker; I feel myself imperiously called upon to defend my own consistency in still continuing my support to this bill, notwithstanding the changes it has undergone, and its inadequacy to afford a complete remedy against the scandalous traffic which it was intended to prevent. It will be in the recollection of the house, when I moved for leave to bring in the bill, I then professed the measure I should propose would be one framed with a view of meeting what I conceived would be agreeable to the sentiments of a majority of members, rather than what would accord with my own opinion, as necessary fully to restore the confidence and respect of the country. I then felt some measures were indispensable, and I thought it more consonant to political wisdom, and more consistent with real intention of doing good, to attempt the obtaining some advantage towards so salutary an object, than to contend for what I knew to be impracticable; and thereby to leave matters as they were. I was fully aware of the mischief which might result from the discussion of such a question, if I should fail of producing some measure which might satisfy the country, and prove it was not the intention of parliament, to abet and support practices, which threaten the destruction of this branch of the constitu-
100710061005Mr. Curwen
996995 felt it necessary to state to the house the ground of the vote which he
996995Mr. Adam
1000999 did not rise for the purpose of retracting, or explaining away, any of the opinions he had stated on a former night. Those opinions he had formed by deliberate reflection in retirement, and they had been confirmed by his subsequent experience in life. He first had stated, that property and political power ought to be connected; he was still of the same opinion; but in standing up as the advocate of influence be did not mean to vindicate the practice of corruption. So far as influence could legitimately be exercised, it must extend to all property. He considered the Landed in-
1000999Mr. Davies Giddy
 said a few words against the bill. He thought that if the bill was suffered to pass, it would stand in the way of something better, and that on the other hand, if it was thrown out, something more effectual would be substituted in its place. Besides, if it did pass, there were some who might think that enough would then have been done.Mr. Wilberforce
Qui color albus erat, nunc est contrarius albo.101010091008 said, that he felt it necessary for him to make some observations, as the bill had been so completely altered in the Committee; that there was danger lest, in voting against it now, after having; voted against it before, he should appear to be guilty of inconsistency. It appeared to him as full of objections in its altered state as in its original state; although the objections were of a different nature. His former objections rested, first, on the denial
Qui color albus erat, nunc est contrarius albo.101010091008Mr. Windham
 said, that however his sentiments might be represented, he should not vote for a bill of this sort, which went upon a false and spurious kind of humanity, calculated to do more mischief than the very abuses it meant to prevent. There was one scandalous defect belonging to the bill, and that was the gross partiality and inequality of its enactments. It fell foul of one class of offences only, while it left untouched an infinitely larger class, and in which the very members of the legislature themselves were implicated, such at hunting, fowling, horse-racing, &c. It would open, besides, scenes of infinite vexation and injustice, by means of informers and litigation, much greater, indeed, than those it was framed to prevent. Besides, the obligations which the bill enforced were all moral duties, of that imperfect obligation which did not admit of legislative interference. He should take another opportunity of opposing the bill more at length.Mr. Windham
 thought the augmentation essential to the dignity of the judicial character.Sir A. Piggott
990 moved the second reading of the bill to prevent wanton and malicious Cruelty to Animals. He said he was happy in the opportunity of shewing himself friendly to the cause of humanity, and was pleased with the thought that this bill was likely to experience no opposition. Cruelty to dumb animals was go prevalent,
990Sir Charles Bunbury
991 took this opportunity of delivering his sentiments upon the general merits of the measure. He declared himself a decided friend to moderate and practical reform. It was his unequivocal opinion, that when eleven thousand persons exercised the elective franchise, for and in the name of eleven millions, gradual reform became absolutely necessary; but at the same time, he was equally sure,
991Sir T. Turton
1018 admitted that the house
1018Mr. Abercrombie
 supported the opinion of Mr. Dundas as to the deliberate caution with which any alteration should be attempted in legal proceedings so long established. He admitted that it was desirable to extend to Scotland the trial by jury, but this only provided it was agreeable to those most concerned, and who best understood the usage and feeling of the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 considered that imposing this tax would be a breach of public faith, and that even taxing those who should hereafter purchase in our funds would be impolitic and unwise. He could only consider foreigners as liable to personal taxation.Mr. Hawkins Browne
 felt himself bound to oppose the motion. Such a Resolution as was now moved, to undertake a future consideration of the subject, would not be binding on the house, or a sufficient warning to the stockholder, and therefore he could see no necessity for now entertaining it. Whenever this question came to be discussed, it would not be on the point of conveniency to the revenue, but of justice. When the subject was formerly agitated, the difficulty that occurred to him was, what distinction ought to be drawn between the British subject and the foreigner, and he could not see why the latter ought to be exempted from bearing a part of the public burden with the former. The pledge of parliament had been misunderstood. It was that the funded property, which was most easily come at, should not be made the prominent object of taxation, and not but when it was taxed in general with every other species of property in the country, he could see no ground for imposing it altogether on British subjects. He would not however enter into the discussion of the subject now. At this late period of the session, when it was said the house ought not to be called on for a decision, he thought it equally inconsistent to call on them for a pledge, which was to bind them next session. It was therefore the impropriety of the time, which called on him to oppose the motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1027pro tanto,1026sine qua non1025 thought the reasons he should give for not concurring with the motion would be satisfactory to the noble lord. It had been rumoured abroad that Mr. Erskine had not departed from his Instructions: he thought it was proper to prove to this country, to America and to the world, that such a report was not founded in fact. The fact whether the arrangements he had made, were or were not in conformity to the Instructions he had received, was the point in question. The papers already produced were, he thought, sufficient to substantiate the fact of Mr. Erskine's having gone beyond his Instructions. He had, indeed, the admission of the noble lord, that the arrangement was coucluded without due authority. This was the main point which government, in justification of the measures they were under the necessity of adopting, were anxious to establish. All farther discussion of the subject at this moment, would not only be attended with inconveniences, too obvious to put him under the necessity of repeating them, but might possibly endanger the success of ulterior arrangements. The point necessary to establish was, that the Instructions were not followed, and of that the noble lord seemed convinced. With respect to the conduct of Mr. Erskine, nothing was said of it but what the absolute necessity of the case ex-
1027pro tanto,1026sine qua non1025Mr. Secretary Canning
 vindicated the conduct of his relative, Mr. Erkine, and abstained from making that reply to the right hon. gent, which his speech seemed to call for, lest such reply might call forth a discussion tending in the slightest degree to interrupt that system of conciliation now likely to take place between the two countries.Mr. Morris
1028 thought the motion, as far
1028Mr. Marryatt
 mentioned a case, where he himself had met a man beating and spurring his horse most cruelly, and he threatened to take him before a magistrate. The man defied him, and said the horse was his own, and he would treat him as he pleased.Sir Robert Williams
*1030 was ready to give full credit to the intentions of the noble mover of this bill, but thought that it was a subject which required great consideration. If such cases as that stated by his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Jekyll) were intended to be included under the general words of wantonly and maliciously abusing those animals, he could not readily bring his mind to assent to it: for who was to judge exactly of the quantity of food which ought to be given, or of the quantity of punishment or of spurring which was necessary to oblige a
*1030The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1031* could not allow that there was any thing in this bill so vague and indefinite as had been stated by the right hon. gent. The words of the bill were "wantonly and maliciously abusing." These were not words of vague and indefinite signification, hut such as magistrates and juries on other occasions conceived sufficient for their direction. As to the quantity of punishment or severity, the crime was entirely in the degree of it. Thus, where a man had dominion over his fellow creatures, such as a master over his apprentice, or a father over his child, they could never be accountable for that ordinary severity, which may be necessary, or be conceived to be necessary with respect to those whom it was their duty to govern. There was no one, however, would say that there were not degrees of cruelty in the exercise of this power which our laws very properly punished, and which juries and magistrates did not find it difficult to determine. But in this bill the words "wantonly and maliciously" being introduced, it would be still harder for the juries to mistake the proper line. He did not see how there could be any doubt; and he thought it would be a strange thing, indeed, if the legislature were to forbear from making laws, merely on the statement that magistrates and juries would not understand them, and would determine in a manner that the law never intended, This was also supposing magistrates and juries to be absolutely void of common sense, and incapable of finding out what should be conceived wanton cruelty to an animal, although they are allowed to be perfectly capable of judging of what was unreasonable cruelty to a child, or an apprentice. He differed very much with the right hon. gent., (the Chancellor of
1031*Sir Samuel Romilly
 defended the principle of the measure.Mr. Morris
 declared himself friendly to the bill. The evil which it went to correct called for some interposition, and he could see no force in the objection that it came not within a legislative remedy.Lord Porchester
*1032 expressed an anxious desire that this measure, which exacted a new penal statute, and was avowed to be an æra in legislation, should be delayed until the house would be enabled to view
*1032The Solicitor General
1029 moved as a Resolution, (after a short conversation upon the point of Order between the Speaker, lord Folkestone, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer), "That it is the opinion of the house, that the existence of Sinecure Offices, and Offices executed by deputy, is unnecessary, and inexpedient as a means of remunerating public service:—That Pensions, if granted, as on some occasions it may be proper that they should be granted, for more than one life, may in all cases supply the place of the said offices, and whether granted by parliament, or placed at the power of the crown, to grant, under limitations with
1029Lord Ossulston
 entered into a detail of our correspondence and intercourse with America. He thought Mr. Erskine must have obtained some substantial concession to the demands of England, with which we were at present unacquainted, and on which he grounded his treaty.Mr. A. Baring
l. contended, that the saving of the comparatively trifling sum of 60,000l.Mr. A. Baring
 said, that a measure such as that recommended by the hon. and learned member could not be adopted, without a most important alteration in the legal practice of Scotland for 300 years, and therefore the house ought not precipitately to adopt any such proceedings, but wait deliberately, to hear the final opinions of the commissioners appointed to discuss the subject, and to examine it in all its bearings; and he knew that there were many of the highest legal authorities in Scotland, who differed in opinion on the subject.Mr. R. Dundas
1024 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for certain Papers relating to the attack on the Chesapeake, in addition to those already on the table. The Instructions given to Mr. Erskine on that subject he thought ought to be produced, as well as the communication he Bust necessarily have made to govern-
1024Lord H. Petty
 declared, that as a partial disclosure had already been made on this subject, all he wanted, both for the sake of public utility and private justice, was, that such disclosure might be made as ample as possible. It had appeared, however, from the speech of the right hon. gent., that a negotiation was now pending, to which such disclosure might prove dangerous. Since this was the case, he was willing foe the present to withdraw his motion, until a disclosure could be made without difficulty on the subject.Lord H. Petty
l.l.l.l.l.1017 spoke at considerable length upon a great and oppressive defect existing in the mode of proceeding in the court of session in Scotland, and for which this bill afforded no remedy; notwithstanding
l.l.l.l.l.1017Mr. Horner
 said this question had frequently been agitated, and always decided in favour of the foreigner. The foreigner would think, if we made him pay the income tax now, we only spared him formerly, because, when property was only taxed at the rate of five per cent. it was not worth while to make him liable to its operation. But now that it amounted to ten per cent. it appeared to us an object of importance, and that circumstance annihilated our pity. Fie thought such a change in our conduct would operate to our disadvantage, as a similar step did formerly against France. He did not think the foreigner who had placed his fortune in our funds, relying on the good faith of the country, ought to be forced to pay the income tax, or sell out at a great loss; but he had no objection to the duty being imposed on all future purchases.Mr. Tierney
 spoke on the same side.Mr. H. Thornton
 in reply said: The hon. member on the same bench (Mr. Baring) having admitted (and few are more conversant in business of this nature), that it is not to our advantage to grant these exemptions, and having expressed his belief, that should they be removed, it would not occasion any change of stockholders, has granted the impropriety of continuing them on the score of policy; but the hon. member's opposition to the present motion, and indeed the whole objections made by those members who have spoken on the subject, are grounded on the supposed injustice, and breach of faith to foreigners, in now withdrawing these exemptions. I had hoped that I had met objections of this nature in the terms of the motion, and that by giving timely notice of our intentions, we could not fairly be charged with injustice or illiberality. In truth we have never been bound to foreigners, any more than to British subjects, and if upon a plea of necessity, you have broke through the acts and provisions made in the reign of queen Anue, if you have violated all the acts from that time to the present day, which have uniformly provided for the payment of the dividends at the bank of England, without any deduction whatever, I would ask upon what principle of justice it is, that foreigners should be exempted from the effect of a financial resource, raised for the support of government, and the protection of that property in which they have voluntarily, and for their own convenience, become proprietors; their property is protected, and they are bound in justice to contribute their share of the expence of that protection. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer seems indisposed to commit himself to any pledge on the subject, at this late period of the session, and as the subject is important, I am not desirous of pressing it to a decision now. I shall therefore beg leave to withdraw the present motion, intending again to bring it forward at an early period of the ensuing session.Mr. Howorth
1021l.1020d.s.1019l.l.—Sir, The subject to which I am requesting your attention was under discussion in the session of 1806. I must observe however, that, although it has been discussed, parliament has not been called upon to pronounce a direct opinion upon it. The motion then made for that purpose, was set aside on a point of form: my object is, to revive the question concerning the exemption granted to foreigners, holding stock in our funds, and not resident in the king's dominions, and to place the property of such foreigners, upon the same footing with that of his majesty's subjects. By an act passed in the 46 Geo. III. duties often per cent. were granted upon the dividends payable out of the public funds. In that act a clause was inserted, to exempt the property of foreigners residing abroad, from these duties; by the returns from the tax office it appears, that the average of the annual amount of this exemption, is about 65,0001021l.1020d.s.1019l.l.Mr. Howorth.
 combated the arguments in favour of the motion. He was of opinion that America, in all her proceedings, had no wish to promote an impartial course with respect to France and this country. It was the business of that house to take care lest France should triumph in these negotiations, and lest England should now sanction decrees which she had before arraigned, and desert measures to which she had at other periods given her support. At all events, in his opinon, discussions in that house could not tend at the present crisis to promote amity between the countries.Mr. Stephen
 was ready to do justice to the ingenuity and talents of the right hon. gentleman, but begged, when he talked of the humanity claimed by others, to ask whether that right hon. gent, and those who thought with him, did not affect to be above vulgar prejudices? He denied, that this was a new era, as had been stated, in legislation, because humanity had ever been a characteristic of British jurisprudence. It was the duty of that house to protect useful animals from wanton and malicious cruelties; and he contended that if any of the cases alluded to by the right hon. gent, should come within that description, the persons concerned would be within the operation of the act. The bill was intended to prevent practices specifically mentioned, and all the objections of the right hon. gent, went only to the enactments of the bill, and might be removed in the Committee.Mr. Stephen
 thought foreigners, in depositing their money in our funds, consulted their own interest only, and therefore ought to be liable to the income taxMr. Dent
l. thought, that as the property of these foreigners was protected, as well as our own, at an immense expence of blood and treasure, it was but fair that they should bear a share of the burden. There were a number of foreigners who got their living in this country; and some who were even said to make their 6,000l.Mr. Fuller
 professed himself a warm friend to the bill, which was founded on moral principle. He had many years since considered this subject of cruelty to animals, together with his noble frend (lord Erskine) the mover of it.Mr. Jekyll
 thought that a bill so novel in its nature as the present required more time for its due consideration. He did not credit many of the facts which had been stated and called for evidence to be produced at the bar. He then mentioned that he himself saw a man once striking a horse on the head with the butt end of his whip, in a manner that appeared to him most cruel and brutal. He interfered; but the man, with a most good-humoured countenance, assured him that it was necessary to frighten the horse by striking him on the head, that if he had struck him with the small end of the whip, it would have put the animal to greater pain.Mr. Frankland
 had hoped that the able and convicting speech of the right hon. gent. Opposite, would have produced an unanimous vote against the bill in that house. He was an enemy to the bill on the grounds stated by the right hon. gent. as well as because it did not draw any definite line to mark the offence, and would consequently lead to arbitrary decisions.Mr. Davies Giddy
 felt surprised at the rejection of a measure coming recommended as this did from so respectable a quarter, and expressed his regret that such distinguished talents should be employed in opposition to it. He possessed a letter, which, if he read, he was sure would create in the breast of the right hon. gent., sentiments congenial to his own. If the bill had been more general, it would be argued that it went too far, and now that it was confined to distinct offences it was said it did not go far enough. By raising the estimation of the animal creation in the minds of the ignorant, this bill would create a sum of sensitive happiness almost impossible to calculate.Mr. Wilberforce
*10281027**1026quantum1025*sport,recover;severaldieddeath,1040fera natures1039103810371036103510341033subdued103210311030 said, that his first and general objection to the Bill was, that the object of it, however commendable, was not such as to become a fit subject of legislation. For this opinion he had at least a pretty strong voucher, in the universal practice of mankind down to the present moment. In no country had it ever yet been attempted to regulate by law the conduct of men towards brute animals, except so far as such conduct operated to the prejudice of men. The province of criminal legislation had hitherto been confined to the injuries sustained by men. This fact, though affording a pretty strong presumption, (sufficient, one should think, to make us pause, and not hurry through the house, with hardly any discussion, a bill of so novel a character,) was yet, he would confess, not absolutely conclusive. It might be right, that 'all this should be changed;' that what was now proposed, should be done, though it had never been done before. But the question was, at least, of some importance, and not to be decided without more discussion, than had hitherto taken place, or could now well be expected before the sessions would be at an eud. The novelty of the subject, not in its details or particular application, but in its general character, was a topic not brought forward, as an objection, by the opposers of the bill, but claimed and insisted upon by its authors. In a pamphlet, circulated with great industry, (and of equal authority, as coming from the same source with the bill itself,) it was expressly
*10281027**1026quantum1025*sport,recover;severaldieddeath,1040fera natures1039103810371036103510341033subdued103210311030Mr. Windham
 maintained that the taxing of the funded property of foreigners, was perfectly consistent with justice and policy. The only point upon which there could be a doubt was, whether the funds ought to have been taxed at all; but this having been determined in the affirmative, there was no reason why foreigners should not be placed on a footing with the subjects of this country.Sir T. Turton
10581057 thought it incumbent upon him to trouble the house with a few observations, after what had fallen from the hon. baronet; and they would be but a few. The object of the hon. baronet appeared to be, that the house should give a pledge that it would, early in the next session, go into a Committee on the State of the Representation. He saw no reason whatever for entering upon the question of reform at all, and therefore could not agree to vote for any such pledge. In many of the propositions stated by the hon. baronet, he was unable to follow him. Among other things, he assumed it as a fact, that the
10581057The Chancellor of the Exchequer
higher I do not aspire, lower I cannot descend.1056and to them alone,1055such remediesremedyreform;Hand ignara malis, "miseris succurere disco.remedy.intrinsicfelo de seam10541053105210511050to reunite the King and the People by the constitutional bond of Allegiance on the one-hand, and Protection on the other.Borough-mongers1049*"Next, that all the Sheriffs be charged that they do not direct any Precept for electing and returning of any Burgesses to or for any ancient Borough within their Counties, being so utterly ruined and decayed, that there are not sufficient resyantes to make such choice, and of whom lawful election may be made." See Cobbett's Parliamentary History, vol, i. p. 969.ad Proceres et Dominos et Communes Regni,"1048Public TrustPrivate Property,to rescue the country from the effects of the innovation that has been introduced.innovatorsto perpetuate the cheat.the substance also,1047the observance of forms,all the specious formsMy only apprehension is, from the usurpation of the legitimate Prerogative, by the Borough Monger Faction, and the consequent abuse of it by the agents of that Faction; untruly stiling themselves Ministers of the King, Servants of the Crown, through the medium of this House falsely denominating itself the Representative of the People.the spirit and essencethe forms,libertatis imaginœ tegebantur, tanto "irruptura ad infentius servitium"Quantoque majore,and all the Forms1046a Senate debating,under the forms of the ancient constitution.under the formsmere forms,the formsmixturemixed accounts;1045Mixed Motives,Mixed Motives.a Reform of this House.Ne plus ultra,Principles obsta:1044then"Grows with our growth, and strengthens with our strength."disease,"The young disease,"Grows with our growth, and strengthens with our strength?"1043unrepealedto be found in the Statute Book, and recognized by the Common Lam of the Land.the Constitution itself:1042 rose and spoke as follows:higher I do not aspire, lower I cannot descend.1056and to them alone,1055such remediesremedyreform;Hand ignara malis, "miseris succurere disco.remedy.intrinsicfelo de seam10541053105210511050to reunite the King and the People by the constitutional bond of Allegiance on the one-hand, and Protection on the other.Borough-mongers1049*"Next, that all the Sheriffs be charged that they do not direct any Precept for electing and returning of any Burgesses to or for any ancient Borough within their Counties, being so utterly ruined and decayed, that there are not sufficient resyantes to make such choice, and of whom lawful election may be made." See Cobbett's Parliamentary History, vol, i. p. 969.ad Proceres et Dominos et Communes Regni,"1048Public TrustPrivate Property,to rescue the country from the effects of the innovation that has been introduced.innovatorsto perpetuate the cheat.the substance also,1047the observance of forms,all the specious formsMy only apprehension is, from the usurpation of the legitimate Prerogative, by the Borough Monger Faction, and the consequent abuse of it by the agents of that Faction; untruly stiling themselves Ministers of the King, Servants of the Crown, through the medium of this House falsely denominating itself the Representative of the People.the spirit and essencethe forms,libertatis imaginœ tegebantur, tanto "irruptura ad infentius servitium"Quantoque majore,and all the Forms1046a Senate debating,under the forms of the ancient constitution.under the formsmere forms,the formsmixturemixed accounts;1045Mixed Motives,Mixed Motives.a Reform of this House.Ne plus ultra,Principles obsta:1044then"Grows with our growth, and strengthens with our strength."disease,"The young disease,"Grows with our growth, and strengthens with our strength?"1043unrepealedto be found in the Statute Book, and recognized by the Common Lam of the Land.the Constitution itself:1042Sir Francis Burdett
1068106710661065 would not suffer the question to go to a division, without replying to some of the observations and objections which had been made to it. From what he had heard of the hon. baronet's speech, one more constitutional, more calculated to entitle him to the respectful attention of the house and to the confidence of the public, or containing stronger professions of a wish to conciliate, he had never heard in parliament. It was directed to the judgment, not to the passions, and certainly did not, in the smallest degree, justify the tone of scoff and ridicule, in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had replied to it. Its object was to insure the attention of parliament to the great question of reform at an early period of the next sessions. Called upon as the hon. baronet had been, taunted as it were, and provoked to speak out—misconceived by some—misrepresented by others—he had on that night put the house in full possession of his thoughts, and although not likely on slight grounds to change his opinion, he had nevertheless declared, that being disposed to yield to reason and sound argument, he was anxious to learn the sentiments which others entertained. The subject of reform was not a new one, nor now for the first time introduced;
1068106710661065Mr. Hutchinson
1069 said he should give his assent to the motion of the hon. baronet. But he wished to be understood by no means to pledge himself to support the
1069Mr. Western
 was averse from the imputing of bad motives to any one, and certainly he imputed none to the hon. baronet. But he doubted whether he might not be influenced by those whose views might be less pure. One of the greatest objections which he had to the proceedings of the hon. baronet was, that he did not propose to carry on his plan of reform in that house, but endeavoured to effect his object by means from without. The hon. baronet was reported in Cobbett's Register to have said, that the house of commons was the only spot where the opinions of Englishmen were treated with contempt. He would have a much higher opinion of the bon. baronet, if we saw in him a disposition to effect his object through that house, instead of a desire to lower it in the opinion of the public.Sir R. Williams
 declared himself friendly to the question of reform, and would vote for entertaining it without pledging himself to the particular plan. The right hon. gent. opposite said, that the generality of the people were not disposed for reform, How did the right hon. gent. ascertain this? The people in their public meetings had, from one end of the kingdom to the other, expressed themselves in favour of reform; and how could their sentiments be collected, except in their public meetings? It had also been said, that the people scarcely ever complained of the decisions of that house. How could that be known? There might be many decisions with which the nation was highly displeased, though its sentiments were not openly expressed. The decision in the case of the Duke of York might have been passed over in this manner, had it not been for some peculiar circumstances in that case which roused the people to a loud and almost universal declaration of their disapprobation. The people had only to become familiar with Reform to see its propriety, and even necessity. It was only by connecting it with the French Revolution, with "no popery," &c. that it had for a time been rendered unpopular. All this, however, was now over. The people would judge coolly and temperately, without allowing themselves to be distracted by such artifices as these. He did not at all pledge himself to the support of the plan now proposed; but as nothing more was required by this Resolution than that the house should take the subject into consideration early in the next session, he would certainly give his voice in its favour.Mr. H. Tracey
 was averse from the pledge, because he was not convinced that the generality of the people were anxious for a reform. But at the same time he agreed that the hon. baronet had been unkindly treated. No speech was ever more distinguished for its candour and moderation, or less calculated lo irritate the passions, than that of the hon. baronet. He wished gentlemen would explain a little what they meant by the restoration of the constitution to its original purity. He could not find, in the course of his reading, any time when the people had greater weight in the constitution, than at present.Mr. Barham
 seconded the motion.Mr. Madocks
1063l.suggest tosuggested to1062l.106110601059 could not listen without feelings of indignation at the levity with which the right hon. gent. chose to treat the motion of his hon. friend. The real
1063l.suggest tosuggested to1062l.106110601059Mr. Madocks
—10Majority against the bill
—10Majority against the bill37Noes
37Noes27Ayes
27Ayes
—10Majority against the bill
—10Majority against the bill37Noes
37Noes27Ayes
27Ayes moved as an Amendment, that the bill be committed this day three months.—10Majority against the bill
—10Majority against the bill37Noes
37Noes27Ayes
27Ayes
—10Majority against the bill
—10Majority against the bill37Noes
37Noes27Ayes
27AyesMr. Windham
1064bon mots, observed, that the hon. baronet, though often accused of obscurity, was now plain and explicit. He had stated in pretty strong terms that the house did not deserve the confidence of the country; and yet he came forward in that very house with his Plan of Reform. The motives of the hon. baronet might be good, but his conduct, he thought, extremely dangerous. The plan which he had stated amounted to complete and radical revolution. The first savage in the world would certainly have thought an attempt to cut down the tree which afforded him protection from the weather a great insult. It would be the ruin of a ship if you took away her ballast. The ballast of the British state vessel might sometimes be too heavy, but upon the whole, she proceeded very well in her course: and even the rotten boroughs might ultimately do a great deal of good. These inappreciable cases produced what was called chance. But as men of wit alone were often lucky in their 1064bon mots,Sir James Hall
 moved, that the house should go into a Committee on this bill.Sir C. Bunbury
1070 asked, whether the constitution in ancient times depended so much upon the borough system? In this respect it might be purified. In ancient times the representation was a representation of property. These boroughs were once places of great wealth and property, and upon that ground sent members to parliament. But circumstances being altered, the representation ought to be varied accordingly. In former times, none were free except freeholders; but now copyholders were equally free and secure, and might therefore partake of the freeholders' privileges. As to the personal reflections thrown out against the hon. baronet, any one conscious of the purity of his motives might easily despise these, and in truth, it was always a proof of a bad cause on the side of those who resorted to such means of defence. As to the particular plan of the hon. baronet, he saw very great objections to it in many points of view. But he understood the hon. baronet to require no more than a pledge from the house, that it would consider the subject. He was not over fond of pledges, but concurring in the principle, he would
1070Sir Thomas Turton
1076 (the Chairman of the East India Company) went into an historical account of the proceedings of the Court of Directors since the year 1798, in which he enumerated the various reasons for entering into the Resolutions in 1799 and 1806, respecting the sale and traffic of East India Patronage, and said the Directors thought themselves bound to adhere to the letter as well as spirit of them. The power had been invested in them by the Committee, and if taken out of their hands it must weaken, and in the end destroy, the establishment. When the matter of there having been improper practices first came out before the house, it was very warmly taken up; a Committee was appointed to inquire into the business, and the daily papers teemed with comments and reflections, to the tendency of which the Directors could not be insensible. The learned gent, who spoke last had said, that he supported the motion because the Resolution proposed by it would neutralize the report of the Committee. He for his own part could not, however, see how it was so to operate; because the Directors did not form their Resolution on that Report, but from a conviction in their own minds that it was absolutely necessary. He had no authority from the Court to express their sentiments; but he could say for himself, that unless the opinion of the house should be peremptory and expressed as a kind of command on the Directors, he, for his own part, having acted from conscientious motives, and done what he thought the welfare and best interest of the Company required, could not alter his opinion on the subject. As to the argument of inhumanity, it certainly applied to the parents of the young men who are gone out, who knew they were acting
1076Mr. Grant
 thought the motion, as worded, clearly told the Directors they had acted contrary not only to the principles of British justice, but also contrary to the common rights of humanity. He thought if the house adopted the Resolution, they ought to go further, and tell the Directors, that they have not only acted wrong, but must rescind their Resolution and blot it out of their book. The hon. baronet must, surely, mean that; or else, master as he had often proved himself to be of language, he would never have worded the motion as he had dons. The hon. baronet, and all those who supported the motion, had advanced the same arguments; had all contended there was not sufficient notice. He insisted on the contrary, that the Resolutions of 1799 and 1806, published as they had been in the Gazette, provincial papers, and in all the instructions of the Court of Directors, were fully sufficient. It had been said the house did not want to interfere with the powers of the Directors, but only to neutralize them. He thought the house could do no such thing, but that the effect must be what he had stated. The Directors had, in his opinion, fairly drawn the line; they had confined themselves to the facts last brought to light, and no one would suffer by the resolution but those who had used those illegal practices since 1806, which was no great length of time. For one, he thought the house ought not to interfere with the Directors, who had acted only in a responsible situation), in such a manner as to prevent the patronage of the Company from being abused. He must therefore oppose the motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
locus penitentiœ!1077 saw no impropriety in that he use coining to any Resolution upon a Report of their Committee; but he saw great injustice in the mode of procedure recommended for the recall of those gentlemen, whom they could not put into the same places here, of which they deprived them in India, though avowedly innocent of the offence they wished to put a
locus penitentiœ!1077Sir Samuel Romilly
 said, he could not but think the opinion just given by his learned friend, had been adopted merely to introduce the observations he had made. He restated the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and said, the only question was, whether the house should by the Resolution, intimate to the Directors that they ought to rescind their Resolution. If this motion was adopted, it must have that effect; and he should therefore oppose it.The Attorney General
 paid a tribute to sir Samuel Romilly, and commented on the happy applications of that learned gentleman's great abilities, to the proceedings of that house during the present sessions.Mr. Hutchinson
1131 said, that as to the bounties, he could take upon himself to say, that no considerable saving could be made in this point, in fact, the greater part of the bounties were merely drawbacks; and if the plan of the hon. gent, were adopted in thus taking away these bounties, there would be at least 30,000 weavers in Spitalfields turned out of employment the first fortnight. Most of the bounties were merely drawbacks of duty on our manufactures upon exportation. There was no subject which he had considered with greater attention than this of bounties; he had gone over the subject again and again; and if it had appeared to him that any of them could have been taken off without doing an injury to the public, be certainly
1131Mr. Rose
 said, that instead of there being too many officers employed in the custom-house, there was a pretty general complaint among the merchants that there were too few for the great weight of business that is now going on.Mr. Lockhart
1073 vindicated the conduct of the Court of Directors in the determination they had felt it their duly to adopt, however painful to their private feelings, but to which they were bound by every sense of official obligation. The hon. baronet was in an error when he stated that this determination of the Directors was founded upon an obsolete Resolution of 1796: for the Directors had long since resolved to pass over in amnesty all the appointments improperly obtained previously to that date. Equally erroneous was the hon. baronet's statement, that the public were not sufficiently apprized of the determination of the Directors upon this subject, or that any person could fairly plead ignorance in excuse; for not only had a positive act of parliament passed upon the subject, authorizing the court of directors to recal any of their servants in India whom they might see cause to recal; but so lately as the year 1806, they announced in the London Gazette, and in all the London and British provincial newspapers, the determination to annul every appointment in their service, which should
1073Mr. R. Dundas
 said, that he had never intended to institute any comparison between the modes of collecting the revenue in this country and in France. As to what he had stated about the inspector of canvas, he would be ready at all events to shew, that he had strong grounds for the statement that he had made.Mr. Wardle
 spoke in favour of the Report of the Committee, and thought that the house should pause before they would interfere with the Court of Directors. He called upon the house to recollect, that the act invested in the Court those powers which the present Resolution went to interfere with. He said that it was quite futile to make the provisions which had been made, if they were to be frittered away by excepting the sons of the persons who had purchased those situations. As, therefore, the motion appeared to him to have a tendency to interfere with the Court of Directors and the Act of Parliament, he should vote against the motion.Mr. Bankes
 was for the previous question.Mr. H. Smith
 said, though the rule might in strictness be thought a harsh one, still as under the controul of the Directors it would experience relaxation, he thought the motion was unnecessary.Mr. H. Thornton
l.l.l. took notice of the steps which had been taken by the Committee of Finance, to reform many abuses of which the hon. gent, had complained. As to the Pension List, he certainly wished it was smaller, but there were many parts of it which no man would wish to reduce. There were pensions to the amount of 355,000l.l.l.Mr. H. Thornton
1075 spoke in favour of the motion. He said, that when this matter of the traffic in East India Patronage first came accidentally before the house, he had given it us his opinion, that the house, in appointing a Committee, went out of its province, and had no more business to interfere than they had with the conduct of the clerks of the Bank of England; but having once so far interfered, and the Committee, from feelings of a proper indignation, having expressed a strong opinion on the transaction, he thought it would be bat fair and reasonable in the house now to give their opinion on that part of the Report of the Committee, in order to neutralize the matter, and that the house might leave the question where they found it, and that the Directors might be at liberty to act as they thought proper after it. He coincided in opinion with Mr. Windham, and thought the Resolution of the hon. baronet not only an act of humanity, but of strict justice. He dwelt with considerable feeling on the hardship of ruining young men who had suffered the unspeakable torment of having torn themselves from their nearest and dearest relatives, friends, and from their native country, for the purpose of rising in the world; whose prospects would perhaps be just beginning to brighten upon them, when they would receive their recal, for
1075Mr. Stephen
 expressed a wish that the Court of Directors would reconsider their determination.Mr. N. Vansittart
 spoke shortly in favour of the motion. He said three Writerships had been disposed of. Who gave these Writerships? Mr. Thellusson. Who sold them? Mr. Woodford, his relation, to whom he gave them. Mr. Woodford had been obliged to leave the country, and Mr. Thellusson was turned out of the Direction. The Directors had punished those who were guilty, and they had done enough. Any thing more would be to visit the sins of the fathers on the children, and he should therefore vote for the motion.Mr. Peter Moore
l. said, the assertion of the hon. gent. with respect to the canvas being bad, and supplied by the inspector, was not correct. The contractor received but 1,400l.Mr. R. Ward
 was so confident that the Cadets would suffer no injustice from the Court of Directors, that he would vote for the previous question.Mr. Lushington
 objected to the Resolution, because he could see no good to arise from it. The substantial object of the motion was to be relieved from the Resolution of the Directors, which the house could not effect by such a measure; and it would be most unconstitutional to attempt, by a Resolution of that house, to overawe the Directors in the due discharge of the duty vested solely in them by act of Parliament. It would, in fact, be to do away, by one branch of the legislature, what had been enacted by all the three branches, who had left the whole power of sending out and recalling their servants, entirely to the discretion of the Directors of the East India Company. The hon. baronet thought the Resolution of the Directors should at present be only prospective, but if that were to be the case, how could they, after what had passed, suppose that it would be more effectual than it had been on former occasions? He should therefore give it his negative.Mr. Wallace,
 said the Resolution was not meant to be imperative; it was no mandate, but merely the opinion of the house on the Report of one of its Committees. He thought the Resolution a very proper one, and called for not only as an act of humanity, but of strict justice, and as such it should have his vote.Mr. Fremantle
112511241123l.11221121l.l.l.1120l.d.s.l.s.l.1119l.,1118d.s.l.l.l.l.1.1117l.l.l.l.11161115l.l.l.l.l.1114l.l.l.1113l.l.l.l.datal.l.l.111211111110ipse dixit1109l.l.l.l.l.110811071106 rose and said; Mr. Speaker; With whatever feelings of surprize and regret I may have witnessed the conduct of the hon. gent., on the occasion of his first broaching, in another place, the subject which he has now at last brought under the consideration of the house, those feelings have by no means been awakened, either by the explanation which the hon. gent, has just given of the motives by which he has been actuated, or by the statement which he has submitted to the house in support of his proposition, If, in the first instance, I observed, with astonishment, a member of this house, one of the guardians of the public purse, and one too who professes to watch over the public expenditure with more than an ordinary degree of jealousy and anxiety, seek-
112511241123l.11221121l.l.l.1120l.d.s.l.s.l.1119l.,1118d.s.l.l.l.l.1.1117l.l.l.l.11161115l.l.l.l.l.1114l.l.l.1113l.l.l.l.datal.l.l.111211111110ipse dixit1109l.l.l.l.l.110811071106Mr. Huskisson
1074cuncta prius tentanda. said that he could not help adverting to that subject upon which, on a former night, he had occasion to make some observations. He meant that sort of outrageous virtue, that, while it laid claim to immaculate purity for itself, went beyond all bounds in venting its vengeance against the alledged criminality of others. This was too much the principle in the present case. In this way of overdoing justice, gentlemen seemed to argue in the same way the great king of Prussia did; who, when a soldier in a fresh breeze had his hat blown oft^ had the soldier severely punished for this accident: and it certainly was observed afterwards, that whether the man was innocent or not, fewer hats fell off' afterwards. He, however, was not for arguing in this manner in Order to justify the punishing the innocent, which lie took to be impossible. And indeed, before any such absurd principle was resorted to, 1074cuncta prius tentanda.Mr. Windham
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1130l.l.l.1129bona fidel.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1128l.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.11271126l. Before, Sir, I make any reply to the arguments of the hon. member (Mr. Huskisson), I feel myself called upon to assert, that a charge more unfounded could not be made by one member against another, than that which he has brought forward against the hon. member behind me, for making his statement an the last day of the session. I appeal to every member in the house, whether or not the hon. member was not compelled to do so; and whether it was possible for him after the threat that was held over him from the moment at which he first expressed his opinion of the saving that might be made in the public expenditure, to permit the session to close, without coming down to the house and stating the grounds of that opinion. The hon. member has said, that the hon. mover has made a statement of mere assertion, and that he could just as easily have proved a saving of a million as a saving of 500,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1130l.l.l.1129bona fidel.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1128l.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.11271126l.Mr. Parnell.
 then replied. He said, that it was admitted that the rule ought to be relaxed, but if it was so harsh a one, why should it not rather be given up altogether? He denied that his Resolution had any tendency to interfere with the powers of the Court of Directors or with the acts of parliament. It was a Resolution upon a passage in a Report of their Committee, and it was every way competent for them to discuss and decide upon it.Sir T. Turton
1072 rose to bring forward his promised motion respecting the determination formed by the Court of East India Directors, to the peremptory recal of those persons whose appointments to India as Cadets and Writers were procured by corrupt or clandestine influence. The hon. bart. argued at length on what he termed the cruelty and injustice of not only recalling those persons from India, after years of faithful service, but totally ruining their future prospects, by declaring them incapable of being again employed in the East India Company's service; to the preparation for which, the whole education and study of their youth had been, devoted. Some of the persons who now became subject to this harsh sentence were young men of first-rate talents, who had carried out with them certificates of being the most accomplished proficients in the Eastern languages ever sent put from England. If any charge of criminality was fairly incurred in these cases, it was not by the parties doomed to be the victims, but by their friends who negotiated, and the Directors who procured their appointments; the persons themselves were not apprized that any risk was attached to these appointments, or that circumstances in the mode of their attainment might render them nugatory; of which it would have been no more than justice to apprize them, in order that they might have been induced to make minute and cautious in-
1072Sir Thomas Turton
11491148such11471146l.Country1145expences.meanswhere1144l.1143l.1142l.l.1141l.114011391138he1137l.1136l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.increased,1135l.l.realsomel.l.l.l,l.l.l.1134indirectdirect1133opposed1132; I feel myself bound in
11491148such11471146l.Country1145expences.meanswhere1144l.1143l.1142l.l.1141l.114011391138he1137l.1136l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.increased,1135l.l.realsomel.l.l.l,l.l.l.1134indirectdirect1133opposed1132Mr. Speaker
 concluded by moving the first of the following Resolutions.Mr. Vansittart
 spoke to the following effect:Mr. Nicltolas Vansittart
 upon the main view of the subject, agreed with the right hon. gent, in his Resolutions, and had no doubt but our resources, notwithstanding all the difficulties under, which we had been placed, were fully adequate to every exertion we should be called upon to make for the honour, defence and independence of the Country.Mr. Huskisson
1160 presented a Petition from Becher Westropp Atkins, late Barrack Master in Sandown bay division, Isle of Wight; setting forth, "That the Petitioner served his majesty as lieutenant in the 27th regiment of infantry in the West Indies, during the years 1797 and 1798, under the command of the late general sir Ralph Abercombie, who conferred upon him an ensigncy in that regiment; and he was afterwards appointed a barrack master in the Isle of Wight,; and that, in the execution of his various duties in that capacity, the petitioner was struck with the existence of certain abuses, by means of which great sums of the public money were improvidently expended; and in December 1805 he submitted to the then Secretary at War a plan evidently calculated to effect great savings to the barrack department, and that, owing to the suggestions, of the petitioner, very great retrenchments took place in the barrack department; and, amongst other circumstances, the vent of the temporary barracks hired upon the part of government were reduced nearly one half, and others given up as useless; and that at the time the petitioner was induced to point out the-above-mentioned abuses to the Secretary at War he stated the disagreeable predicament in which such a proceeding would inevitably place him if he was suffered to remain under the immediate controul of those who were implicated in the transactions he complained of, and upon this ground he solicited a removal from the Isle of Wight to a similar appointment then vacant at Deal, but such solicitation was not attended to, end he was left singly to contend against an host of enemies, whose frauds he had been the means of detecting, and after suffering various mortifications he was turned out of his situation, having a numerous family to support, without even having been acquainted with any accusation alledged against him; and that the petitioner was informed at length through anc-
1160Mr. W. Smith
 rose for the purpose of moving an Address to his Majesty thereon. His lordship began by observing, that he was persuaded he should meet the unanimous concurrence of that house in supporting his Majesty in the effectual prosecution of a war which the country is engaged in, for the purpose of securing and establishing uponsolid foundations the blessings of peace. He was equally convinced that, with respect to the proposals for opening a negociation with the enemy, the conduct adopted upon that occasion would meet with the approval of the House, and that in his exertions on behalf of Spain and of liberty, the sacrifices the country had made, and would make, would continue to be sanctioned by their warmest approbation. He entertained no doubt that whatever might be thought of the result of the war in Portugal, yet that the valour of our armies there must merit the most profound applause, and that the aid to be afforded to the king of Sweden, would be acknowledged the well-earned need of that gallant monarch's fidelity and zeal in the glorious and honourable cause wherein he had embarked. And he no less anticipated the grateful sensation they must feel, that, notwithstanding the efforts of the enemy to injure our commerce, yet, that when their lordships took into consideration the fact, that, in spite of those efforts, our commerce had increased, and our revenues increased in proportion. Influenced by I these, sentiments he would not trespass longer upon the time of the House than just to move the following Address to his Majesty.—Here his lordship read the Address, which, as usual, was an echo of the Speech, and nearly the same as that which is inserted in this day's proceedings of the house of commons.The Earl of Bridgewater
987 said, that the Address just read was such, that no man who had a veneration for his sovereign, or a love for his country, could ever assent to. Some parts of it, which went to express a determined hostility to the common enemy, and which went to declare the firm determination to carry on the war against him, all must approve. But when he adverted to the manner in which that opposition to him had been conducted on the peninsula of Europe, it was wholly impossible not to express both sorrow and indignation. He would assert it in the face of the country, and in the face of the world, that it was the greatest disgrace that had befallen Great Britain since the days of the Revolution; and this he openly declared, whether he took into consideration the manner in which the war was carried on in Portugal, or the way in which our troops had been sent
987Earl St. Vincent
10 complained, that in consequence of the mode which his Majesty's ministers had of late years adopted respecting the Speech from the throne, noble lords were often betrayed into an involuntary approbation of the Address. Formerly, it was the custom to read the Speech previously to its being read from the throne, by which the members of both houses were put in possession of the substance of it at least. That excellent custom had been discontinued; and any noble lord who might disapprove of the Speech, was thereby precluded from offering an Amendment to the Address. He would, however, admit on this occasion, that there was not much in the Address to produce a difference of opinion. He cordially approved of that part of the Speech which expressed a determination to give all possible assistance to the Spaniards, so long as they should be true to themselves. He did not despair of the Spanish cause, provided the vast means of this country were employed in the manner best calculated to distress and embarrass the enemy. He also concurred in that part of the Speech which expressed disapprobation of the Convention of Cintra; but he would have been better pleased if that disapprobation had been followed by an avowal that ulterior measures were intended. Ministers having professed their determination to persevere in the cause of Spain, he trusted that their exertions would henceforth be made in a manner different from what they had been. His lordship severely censured that military arrangement by which a British army was sent into the heart of Spain, when it should have been sent to the foot of the Pyrenees. It should have been sent to a situation where it could not be exposed to the possibility of hiring obliged to retreat.—The noble earl expressed considerable regret that the disposition of America should not be favourable towards this country, but was rather inclined towards the Ruler of France. It must be admitted by all, that the Orders in Council did not originate in the smallest degree
10Earl Grosvenor
25242322 (late lord Hawkesbury) confessed, that upon the various important topics comprized in his majesty's Speech, he was prepared to expect both that the noble lord who had just sat down, as well as other noble lords, would deliver their sentiments; at the same time he thought the Address was so cautiously worded, that he did conceive it would have met with the unanimous approbation of their lordships. The Address was so framed, that it could not have the effect of committing any one in the way of approbation of those measures, which ministers
25242322The Earl of Liverpool
 shortly explained the motives which induced him to concur in the Address. He did not conceive it to pledge him to any of the particular measures to which it referred; and with that reservation it was that he gave it his present concurrence.Lord Sidmouth
282726 disapproved of many of the paragraphs in the Address; but would still refrain from moving any Amendment. He particularly insisted on that which referred to the Armistice and Convention concluded in Portugal, and took occasion to explain the opinion which he had delivered upon it as a member of the Court of Inquiry. He concurred, indeed, with his colleagues in saying, that no further military proceeding should be had in that matter; and he had emphatically made use of the word 'military,' on the occasion. As far as the officers, who took a part in the transaction, were engaged, he would repeat it, that they had behaved with unquestionable zeal and firmness. They might have perhaps imputed to them an error in judgment; but, circumstanced
282726Earl Moira
 said, that several parts of the Address might bear the interpretation of committing the house; as it was said, for instance, that they heard 'with satisfaction,' that his majesty had entered into a treaty. But he was glad to hear it expressly declared, that their agreeing to the Address did not involve their approbation of the measures of government.Lord Auckland
11 observed, that there was one point upon which there could not, he was persuaded, be any difference of opinion among their lordships, namely, the propriety of assuring his majesty of the gratitude with which they received his Speech. In expressing that assurance, a language was employed, which to him appeared to commit the house to certain points upon which they were not adequately informed. For himself, he would approve of continuing to support Spain so long as any hope remained; but he was not prepared to thank his majesty for a Treaty, of the conditions and engagements of which he was wholly ignorant. It was not impossible, when the Treaty came to be discussed, that he might approve it; but until the documents were before him, he must suspend his opinion, and, above all things, decline to pledge himself to an unreserved approbation of the measure. Before he could come to a proper decision on this subject, he must also obtain some information respecting the state of Spain. At no period within his memory was there so much spirit, so much loyalty and zeal
11Viscount Sidmouth
 vindicated ministers from the reproaches bestowed on them; and merely indicated, that they were ready to discuss the various subjects mentioned, whenever the noble lords on the opposite tide chose.Lord Mulgrave
65 rose to second the Address, and said, My lord; we cannot express, too strong, our gratitude to his Majesty, not only for the transcendent situation in which we now stand as a nation, but for the whole of his able and judicious government, during so long a reign and under circumstances of unexampled difficulty.—His Majesty gra-
65Lord Sheffield
 while he approved of the exertions made by ministers in favour of the Spanish Patriots, could not refrain from expressing his disapprobation of the manner in which our gallant troops were employed; and no man more lamented than he did the mistakes which had placed them in situations which rendered them incapable of displaying those energies for which British soldiers are every where characterised. He wished to avoid pledging himself to any measure whatever, until ministers laid fully before the House their motives for their conduct.The Earl of Buckinghamshire,
29Lord Chancellor reprobated the Address, as in many respects disingenuous, particularly in the attempt which it made to screen ministers, by shifting the blame of the Convention of Cintra from their own shoulders to those of the officers who commanded the expedition in Portugal. If there was an error of judgment any where, it was to be charged on his majesty's ministers, who had placed those officers in a situation which reduced them to the necessity of acceding to such terms. The conduct of ministers in rejecting the proposal of America, he must also reprobate. It would lead to the worst consequences. It would throw America into the arms of France, and tend to separate the new from the old world, which must deeply wound the commercial prosperity of this country. The 29Lord ChancellorLord Erskine
21Uti possidetis201918171615141312 rose and spoke nearly as follows: It. could not but be imagined, my lords, that there were parts of the Address in which it was impossible for me to concur, but I most willingly gave way to other lords who wished to deliver their sentiments. It was the constant practice, until the present administration came into office, to refrain both in the Speech and the Address from calling upon parliament, to deliver any decided opinion approving of past measures, the documents relating to which were not in the possession of the House, or expressing a determination to support any future system, the details of which had not been communicated. We are now, on the contrary, called upon to express our decided approbation, not only of past measures, but of a future system of which no explanation is given. Surely, it must be deemed incumbent upon minis-
21Uti possidetis201918171615141312Lord Grenville
 stated, that a noble friend of his (lord Grenville), whose absence, en account of illness, he had to regret, but whose illness would not, he hoped, be of long continuance, had requested him to state to the house, that if he had been enabled to be present, he should have joined in every tribute of applause to the merits of sir Arthur Wellesley. His noble friend had also requested him to move, that the lords be summoned for this day fortnight, when it was the intention of his noble friend to bring forward a motion to address his majesty to rescind the Orders in Council; and to found that motion upon the Letter which had been published from Mr. Pinckney, the American minister, to our Government; and the Answer of the Secretary of State. It was requisite that those papers should be before the house, and his lordship, therefore, moved for the production of the Correspondence between the Ministers of the two Governments.Lord Auckland
 wished to confine the production of papers to those which had been published by the American Government; and observed, that no communication was made to Parliament respecting America, because our existing relations with the United States were not in that state which would authorise such a communication.The Earl of Liverpool
 agreed that no other papers than those mentioned were necessary; but, in consequence of some objection to the wording of the motion, his lordship withdrew it, with the intention of making it again to-morrow.Lord Auckland
107 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move the Thanks of the house to lieutenant general sir Arthur Wellesley. His lordship briefly detailed the circumstances of the two actions, on the 17th and 21st of August, and spoke in the highest terms of the skilful disposition made by sir A. Wellesley upon those occasions, and the energy and ability displayed by that gallant officer in the battles. He trusted, therefore, that there would be an unanimous Vote of Thanks
107The Earl of Liverpool
108 was aware that it appeared very ungracious to interpose any thing like a dissent to a motion of this nature, but he thought it his duty upon the present occasion to enter his protest against the mode now proposed by the noble earl, of voting the thanks of the house. The painful task had fallen to his lot of investigating, as a member of the Court of Inquiry, the circumstances which led to the late transactions in Portugal; and after what then transpired, he could not consent that the name of sir Harry Burrard should be left out of the Vote of Thanks, and thereby, in fact, that the severest censure should be passed upon him. It was ascertained by the examination of sir Harry Burrard before the Court of Inquiry, that that respectable officer had the command of the army on the 20th, and that on the 21st, on arriving at Vimiera, he approved of the dispositions made by sir Arthur in the battle, and thereby made
108The Earl of Moira
 for the sake of regularity, moved an adjournment of the question, for the purpose of introducing a motion of thanks to sir Harry Burrard.The Earl of Moira,
111 had conceived that the business, as it originally stood, would have been a mere Vote of Thanks, unmixed with other matter, and, as such, not liable to the slightest opposition; but the amendment proposed by the noble earl had given rise to a question, how far the silence of the Vote of Thanks to sir Arthur Wellesley, with regard to sir Harry Burrard, tended to stigmatise the latter? His lordship declared that if it had the slightest tendency in his mind to any such conclusion, he would be the last man to agree to it. But he would ask, did it do so, when it must be acknowledged, on all hands, that the services of the latter were at all events less brilliant than those of the former? A noble and learned lord had declared he was wholly unacquainted with sir Harry Burrard; but his lordship knew him well, and also his sentiments on the subject; and he knew that the gallant general utterly disclaimed all right to thanks which he felt he had not earned. Their lordships had heard of the Court of Inquiry, and the sentiments arising thereon; but the proceedings of that court were not before their lordships, and they could form no opinion therefrom; but there was a document which their lordships were bound to know, and that was the Gazettes. What did they say? In them sir Harry declares he saw no necessity for interfering in the arrangements he found made by sir Arthur,
111Lord Mulgrace
 replied, that general Ferguson had given it as his opinion, that, if permitted to advance, he would have, cut off a part of the enemy. General Spencer's opinion, as to the propriety of advancing, was given in a very cautious manner, and he stated that he saw a body of the enemy, probably the whole of their left wing, forming three miles in front of his division. With the hourly expectation of the arrival of the reinforcements under sir J. Moore, which would render the effecting of the object certain, sir H. Burrard chose to stop, rather than to make a movement which, under the circumstances, was undoubtedly hazardous. Although the movement, if made, would probably, from the superiority of the British soldiers, have been successful, yet he could not but think the conduct of sir H. Burrard judicious, as he might naturally think that a little delay would have brought the probability to a certainty. Sir H. Burrard had the command of the army; he was present for a great part of the time in the hottest of the engagement, and had a duty to perform, of which he could not divest himself. The responsibility rested with him, and he controuled the opinion of sir A. Wellesley respecting the advance to Torres Vedras. Sir H. Burrard must be considered, therefore, as acting the whole of the day, and ought not to by left out of the motion of thanks.The Earl of Moira
113 wished this question had not been brought forward till the papers respecting the expedition had been laid on the table—the want of which occasioned
113Earl Grosvenor
 said, he had listened to the present discussion with considerable uneasiness. His noble friend had certainly supported the amendment which he had proposed, with all his usual talent and force of reasoning; at the same time it was evident, that it was desirable, in order to give full effect to the thanks of the house, that they should be given unanimously, and as it were, by acclamation; but his noble friend must be aware that his amendment would meet with opposition, since so much difference of opinion on the subject evidently existed. He hoped, therefore, the noble baron would not press his amendment.Lord Auckland
 contended, that sir Harry Burrard had, in his own dispatch, expressly disclaimed any share in the victory, he having with great magnanimity allowed the whole of the actual command during the battle to remain with sir A. Wellesley. To include sir Harry in the Vote of Thanks, would be giving an opinion upon subsequent circumstances, respecting which no information was before the house.Lord Harrowby
 said, that he anticipated the objections made by the noble lord who moved the amendment, and had given them full consideration. The result of that consideration was that he could not agree to them. He did not feel that a Vote of Thanks to sir A. Wellesley could attach the least discredit to the character of sir II. Burrard. He cordially assented to the original motion, and regretted that his noble friend had not made it the day after the meeting of the house. He paid some high compliments to the merit of sir A. Wellesley, and described the victory which had been obtained by the army under his command, as one of the most brilliant that graced the annals of the country. He recommended to the noble baron to withdraw the amendment.Viscount Sidmouth
112 expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from other noble lords, with respect to the brilliant nature of the victories of sir A.
112The Earl of Buckinghamshire
110109 in offering himself to the consideration of their lordships, begged to premise that he was altogether unacquainted with sir H. Burrard or his family, and that he did not even know that he had ever seen his person; at the same time he was ready to give the highest possible praise to sir A. Wellesley, which his warmest and most enthusiastic admirers
110109Lord Erskine,
 expressed his decided opinion, that if the proposition of the American Government, respecting the rescinding the Orders in Council, was not agreed to, there would be War between the United States and France in a month.Lord Erskine
134 rose to move the Thanks of the House for the defeat of the French before Corunna. The circumstances which led to the embarkation of our troops in Spain, were, his lordship observed, not now the subject for discussion, but the manner in which that embarkation was effected, and the victory which preceded it. He had always understood, that an attacking army had, even with no more than equal numbers, a tenfold advantage over the army assailed, the former having all the benefit of a preconcerted plan of operations, and dispositions made to carry that plan into effect. How much more, then, must the enemy have the advantage in an attack with greatly superior numbers, and at a period when our army had been harassed by a long and fatiguing march. Yet, with all these disadvantages on our side, the valour and good conduct of British troops decidedly prevailed, and the enemy were every where repulsed. The defeat was so complete, that the enemy did not venture to make another attempt to interrupt the embarkation, which was effected in the most perfect manner, not only the troops having been embarked, but also the horses, the sick and wounded, and the prisoners taken in the action. We had to regret the loss of some valuable officers in the battle, but we had more particularly to lament the loss of the illustrious officer who commanded. The whole life of sir John Moore had been exclusively devoted to the service of his country, and there was scarcely any service of importance in the last two wars in which that gallant officer had not been employed. Sir John Moore had upon every occasion displayed the same zeal and ability, and by his skill and science, and latterly by his experience, had acquired the entire confidence of the officers employed under his command. The fall of such a man was, indeed, a loss deeply to be lamented, and which, he, to whom sir John Moore was personally known, sensibly felt. It was, however, some consolation that the memory of such a man would remain; that
134The Earl of Liverpool
135 entirely concurred in the motion, and in every tribute of praise and gratitude that could be given to the army which had so gallantly achieved a victory, after suffering so much fatigue and so many privations. To sir J. Moore every tribute of gratitude was due for his able, skilful, and gallant conduct, and he deeply lamented his loss. But in giving this concurrence he could not avoid putting a question to ministers, and asking, how it happened that, so heavy and lamentable a loss should have been sustained, without any one object having been effected, except the embarkation of the army? What! did our troops go to Spain only to make their escape? What was now to become of those great interests the protection of which was the greatest boon that Providence could have bestowed on a sinking country. British blood and treasure, and the invaluable lives of British officers and soldiers, had been sacrificed to no purpose, and without in the least assisting the great cause which the country had been pledged to support. Thus were we doomed to witness the extinction of our hopes in Spain, and with them we could expect nothing but the extinction of every hope of continental alliance and co-operation. After the conduct we had displayed towards Sweden and Spain, we could expect nothing but a general confederacy against us. To what but the ignorance and incapacity of ministers were all these calamities to be attributed? The circumstances which had led to them must necessarily become the subject of grave and serious inquiry, but he could not avoid now taking the opportunity of stating his opinion upon the subject, and
135The Earl of Moira
nem. diss138 recalled to the recollection of noble lords opposite, the expeditions to Alexandria, to Constantinople, and South America, and expressed his surprize that they did not at those periods state that all the blame of unfavourable military events was to be attributed to ministers.nem. diss138The Earl of Westmoreland
136 thought concurrence too cold a term to use when stating his agreement in the motion; he viewed with admiration and gratitude the services rendered by the army in Spain, and by its gallant commander, whose loss we had unfortunately to deplore. Having his warmest feelings in unison with this motion, he must, however, reserve to himself the right and the duty of assisting in the institution of an inquiry by some means or other, into the circumstances which had led to the unfortunate situation in which our troops were placed. When that inquiry should take place, he trusted it would be proved that our army did not march from Lisbon at the worst season of the year to a part of Spain where their services could be of no possible use. He regretted to have heard one expression fall from his noble friend (the earl of Moira) that of a "sinking country." He could not agree that this was a sinking country, nor could it be so whilst we bad such troops to
136Viscount Sidmouth
 expressed his surprize that any topic should have been introduced into the discussion, which had no immediate relation to the subject under discussion, and which he scarcely thought within limits of order. He should not now enter into the general question touched upon by the noble earl, with respect to the conduct of his majesty's ministers, but should only state, that when the time came for inquiry, they would be ready to meet it, and if they did not satisfy the noble earl, he had no doubt that they would satisfy that house and the country. With respect to the motion, he could add little to what had been said by his noble friend, nor with respect to the lamented loss of sir John Moore, could he add much to what had been said in the very excellent dispatch of general Hope, the sentiments contained in which must have come home to the feelings of every man in the country. His loss would be deeply felt, but he trusted his example would have the most beneficial effects. He hoped that nothing would be introduced foreign to the immediate subject of the present motion, and that it would be unanimously agreed to.Lord Mulgrave
137 said, that whether the noble lord was out of order, in adverting to the misconduct of ministers in their plans of the campaign, upon a motion to thank the officers who had terminated it so much beyond the expectation of the public, was a question he was not particularly qualified to determine. But of this he was sure, that his observations were inseparable from every honest or rational feeling on the subject. Was it possible to deplore the loss of friends whom we loved, and of men whose lives were precious to their country in a most awful crisis, without lamenting in bitterness that they were literally immolated by the ignorance and folly of those who now wished to cover their own disgrace, by the just and natural feelings of the public, towards men who had died for their country? But for their immortal renown, it would have been better for them, certainly much better for their country, to have shot them upon the parade of St. James's park, than to have sent them, not to suffer the noble risque of soldiers—and in a practicable cause, but to endure insufferable, ignoble, and useless misery, in a march to the very centre of Spain, when they who sent them knew that Buonaparte had above 100,000 men before them, so as to render attack not only impracticable, but retreat only possible, by the noble, unparalleled exertions they were assembled to commemorate: and what sort of retreat?—a retreat leaving upon the roads and in the mountains of Spain from 8 to 9,000 of our brave men, dying of fatigue, without one act of courage to sweeten the death of a soldier.—What could, then, be a more disgusting and humiliating spectacle than to see the government of this great empire, in such a fearful season, in the hands of men who seemed not fit to be a vestry in the smallest parish—The noble lord said, he felt as much for the fame of the immortal officer deceased as any of their lordship could possibly feel. He knew him well. He lived in terms of intimacy with his family, and he admired his superior talents. He had another interest in the fame of the victory. Though the two countries were united so as to have long put an end to all
137Lord Erskine
 also entirely concurred in the motion, and praised in the highest terms the conduct of sir John Moore. They were called upon, it was true, to vote Thanks for a success, which was followed by a retreat, but the success belonged to the army and its commander, the retreat to those who sent them and who placed them in such a situation, that a safe retreat could alone be looked to; for the folly and incapacity which dictated such conduct, ministers must answer to their country. It was, indeed, a "sinking country," if such mismanagement was suffered to continue, situated as we were in the midst of perils and difficulties unexampled in the history of the country. The hand of Providence appeared to be on us; within three years we had lost two great statesmen, in whose talents the country reposed the greatest confidence; a great naval commander who had carried the navy to a pre-eminence which it never before enjoyed; and now a great military chieftain, whose talents were of the first order, and than whom no one possessed in a greater degree the skill and science of an able commander. He trusted that every tribute of gratitude would be paid to sir John Moore. The last expression of that excellent officer was a wish that justice might be done to his memory, and he trusted that that wish would be complied with and carried into effect, and that his last dispatches would be published in order to do justice to his conduct.Lord Grenville
169168prima facie rose to move an Address to his majesty upon the Correspondence with France and Russia, relative to the Overtures from Erfurth, which had, by his majesty's command, been laid before parliament. His lordship said, he should have thought it unnecessary to trouble the house with any observations on the subject, had it not been for an intimation of dissent. He was, however, at a loss to anticipate any objection to the line of conduct which had been upon this occasion adopted by his majesty's government, as it appeared to him to be most clearly dictated by every consideration of sound policy, and of what was due to the honour and character of the country. Every man in the country must have been convinced that the overtures on the part of France were not made in the spirit of peace, following, so immediately as they did, the aggression committed by that power against the Spanish nation, and the usurpation of the government of that nation, which had then been attempted, by nominating a person as king of Spain. He was ready to admit, however, that the Overture from Erfurth, setting aside the preliminary observation, and taking what was substantially the offer, was 169168prima facieThe Earl of Liverpool
174 said, that he had listened to the speech of the noble baron with an attention approaching to astonishment. The noble baron had, with much complacency, congratulated himself on the share which he had had in directing the campaign, the disastrous results of which will long be deeply deplored by the whole British empire. The noble baron, not content with self-consolation, had proceeded, at great length, to congratulate the country on its well-timed and fortunate escape from the counsels and guidance of the late administration. Lord Auckland found himself called upon to answer, and to assert, that if the ministry of his noble friend, (lord Grenville) had not been unfortunately interrupted, at this hour we should have possessed, and without any stain on the national character, a full access to unconquered states in the Baltic, and a full enjoyment of the Baltic trade:—at this hour we should have enjoyed the uninterrupted friendship of the United States, and all the benefits of their commercial intercourse and perhaps also their alliance offensive against France:—and certainly at this hour we should not have had to lament
174Lord Auckland
175 saw many errors in the system which had been pursued in our attempt to protect Spain. The great duke of Marlborough had laid it down that no army entering Spain, and wishing to secure to itself a retreat, should omit to possess themselves of Barcelona. There was also on the opposite coast a fortress, which had been overlooked by us, but which the French had since occupied, and rendered almost impregnable. There was another circumstance which, in his opinion deserved inquiry, and to which, on some future occasion, he should, in all probability, call the attention of the house; namely, why col. Shrapnell's spherical case shot, which it was staled, had contributed
175The Earl of Suffolk
 declared it to be the anxious wish of ministers to meet every inquiry into the conduct of the war in Spain. He challenged his noble friend on the cross bench, or the noble lord opposite, to bring forward any motion they chose on this subject, on as early a day as they chose, that the question might be fairly and at once discussed.The Earl of Liverpool
171 contended, that the question was not with respect to the Answer returned to the Overture, whether the Ruler of France should, at once give up his views upon Spain, but whether the Spanish nation should be admitted as parties to the negotiation? The noble lord (Grenville) had said, that the person exercising the powers of government in France had accomplished his object in two months, and had completed the subjugation of Spain. He was of a very different opinion; he did not think that Spain was now subjugated; nor did he think that it would be: the contest in. that country might still be carried to a
171The Lord Chancellor
172 expressed his perfect concurrence in the opinion delivered by the noble secretary of state, that no confidence could or ought to be placed in the offer of negotiation made by the Russian and French governments from Erfurth. When such a confederacy was formed, it was almost a duty to doubt the sincerity of that offer; hut when it was coupled with a proposal for the abandonment of the Spanish people, he believed, there was not a man in that house or in the kingdom who could have hesitated for a moment, as to the line of conduct the British government ought to have pursued. When he was first acquainted with the communication from Erfurth, the first question which occurred for his consideration was, to resoive the inducements which operated with the head of the French government to make this otter of negotiation. Three motives presented themselves to him as operating on the French ruler: the first was, to create a strong wish for peace among the people of this country, and to excite a popular feeling, that the blessings of peace were not the object
172Viscount Sidmonth
 being called on as he had been, must also say, that he deemed it incumbent on ministers themselves to bring the matter fairly before the public.Viscount Sidmouth
173 maintained, that it was impossible to have done more towards supporting the cause of Spain, than had been done by his majesty's ministers. The boast of Buonaparte, that he would, within the space of two months, be in possession of the Spanish capital, could not possibly have been in his conception, at the time of making it. If any man, however, supposed that the cause of Spain was now hopeless, and that it ought to be abandoned, he, for one, must express a contrary opinien. So long as the Spaniards continued true to themselves, so long would Britain continue true to them. It was the determination of his majesty's present ministers to act on this principle, and to consider the cause of Spain, though a distant, yet an important point in the defence of these kingdoms, Though they did not dispute the. notion that our navy might be equal to the defence of these kingdoms, they did not wish to hazard any thing on a conviction of the kind;
173Lord Mulgrave
 said, that thus attacked, he could not sit silent. He declared sincerely that there was not a single measure adopted by ministers, which, had he been in their situation, he would have thought he acted right in resorting to; and he was equally persuaded there was not one step he would have recommended which they would have adopted. He did not refer to Spain alone; he alluded to their whole conduct since they were entrusted with the management of affairs. He could not, however, consent that he should be called on to bring forward any motion on the subject. Much information was still wanting on the subject of the operations and plans of operations in Spain, which it was the duty of ministers themselves to furnish: particularly, it was incumbent on them, in the first place, to put the house in possession of that document, transmitted to this country by sir John Moore, and which it was the dying wish of that gallant officer should be published, that the country might have a due appreciation of his services. Accounts were daily received from officers in our army, his lordship was sorry to say, not of a consoling nature, but which were calculated to grate the ear and wound the heart. It was not on him, however, or on any other noble lord, that a call lay to make this a subject of inquiry. It was the incumbent duty of ministers themselves to furnish every possible information on a subject in which the feelings not only of that house, but of the public, were so peculiarly interested.Lord Grenville
170 said, he had hoped that the Address would have been so worded as to have enabled him to have done that which he should have wished to have done, to concur in voting it; but as it was now drawn up, he was compelled to give it his dissent, as he could not applaud the wisdom and justice of that conduct which he thought neither wise nor just, he was ready to admit, that at the time the Overture was made, there was no prospect of its leading to any practicable negotiation for peace. The Ruler of France had at that time arranged his plans for the achievement of an object the most important to him of any that he had yet in view, that of completely subjugating Spain. A most horrible and atrocious usurpation had been set up in that country, and unfortunately, the Ruler of France possessed the means of carrying his plan into effect; he went to Spain with a moral certainty of effecting his object, and, no doubt, was sincere in his wish that a large British army might be landed in Spain, he having in his hands the means by which the great object he bad in view might be attained, and which he actually had attained in the course of two months—the subjugation of Spain. With this great object in view, and a moral certainty of attaining it, whilst we, on the other hand, had taken up the cause of the Spanish people against this usurpation, and hoped to defeat the object of the Ruler of France, it was impossible to expect that any negotiation: would take place. It could not be supposed that he would give up his object; it could not be expected that we should give up ours; it could not be imagined that either party would give up by a stroke of the pen what each expected to obtain by force; of arms. But though convinced that the Overture was not made in the spirit of peace, and that no negociation could have
170Lord Grenville
205 called the attention of their lordships to a few observations which he should wish to make upon a subject of great public interest. He allowed that it might not be altogether corresponding with the rules of that house, but on such an occasion he was convinced that their lordships would excuse him. For some time past, rumour had been exceedingly busy in spreading reports of a tendency extremely injurious to the character of the Army; he meant not only the busy whispers that prevailed among the ill-natured, but the public attacks that slander had made upon its discipline. Having been bred a soldier from his earliest days, be could not hear these scandals and falsehoods propagated without taking the first opportunity that presented itself of giving his meed of refutation to the calumny. He was the more anxious to do this, because not only the Army deserved it at his hands, but the conduct of the Illustrious Personage who has the command in chief of it, loudly called for it as an act of justice; for he could take upon him to say,
205The Earl of Suffolk
 rose, not to detain the house for any time on the topics alluded lo, by the noble lord; that indeed would be irregular, as there was no motion before the house; but merely to state in answer to the noble lord's question, that his majesty's ministers had received no account of the French having re-entered and re-occupied Portugal. He was as deeply impressed as the noble earl could be, with the importance of Portugal, in the hands of an ally to this country, and with the dangers that might arise from its falling into the hands of an hostile power. He should only say, that on all occasions, he should be ready to furnish any information in his power on that interesting subject, as were his majesty's government, to enter into the fullest discussion and investigation of every point, connected with matters of such importance.The Earl of Liverpool
 had no objection to the motions of the noble lord. He only wished him to bear in mind, that accurate returns, such as the noble lord has called for, could not be immediately forthcoming. It must be some time before the different regimental returns could be regularly made; and he only rose to state, that whatever delay might occur, should not be imputed to any unwillingness fully to meet the object of the noble lord's motion.The Earl of Liverpool
325 rose, not for the purpose of bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice for this day, but to express a wish that he might be permitted to withdraw it for the present. He had received information from different quarters, which he feared was but too correct, that the French had re-entered and re-occupied Portugal. It was for his majesty's ministers to say whether such was the case or not, for they no doubt must have received advices of such an event. It was of the utmost importance in his mind that Portugal should be restored to its legitimate government, for should the enemy get permanent possession of the posts of Portugal, and of the fortresses of that country, it would be
325The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice, for accurate returns of the number of officers and men belonging to the infantry, the cavalry, and the artillery, who had been embarked at different ports of this country and Ireland, for Spain and Portugal. He also wished to have an account delivered in of the expenditure, under the different heads, of money, arms, clothing, &c. which had been sent at different times to the Spanish patriots. Also an account of the horses, wagon train, &c. He likewise wished to have a return made, of the men, horses, artillery, &c. that had been relanded not in a disabled state, from the different ports of Spain. As the noble lord understood there would be no objection to the returns he called for, he should merely trouble the house with moving for them. The noble lord then proceeded to move, "That an humble address be presented to his majesty, praying that his majesty would be graciously pleased to give directions that these different returns be laid before the house."Lord Erskine
 was disposed to present himself to the attention of the house, but without any wish to occupy much of their lordships time. He felt sensible of acting with some degree of irregularity; but he did not know that any opportunity more convenient would be afforded him of declaring his sentiments upon a subject of considerable importance. From the Votes which appeared on their lordships table, he was authorised to advert to a question now under the consideration of the other house of legislature: and he had heard, and he believed, that certain insinuations had gone abroad, whereby the public were led to suppose dissension now existed between himself and his royal brother, whose Conduct was under inquiry. Whatever credit had been given to such reports, they were unfounded and untrue; and he was happy in making the declaration, that no professional dispute had been entertained, nor did there exist any such schism as had been alluded to in the royal family. So far was he from thinking that there was any thing improper in the conduct of his royal brother, he was fully persuaded that all the Charges made against him were false, and would be proved to be without foundation.The Duke of Kent
383382381380379 said, that he rose for the purpose of submitting to their lordships the motion of which he had given notice some days ago. After the recommendation in the Speech, at the opening of the session; after the repeated declarations of ministers, that they were willing every part of their conduct should undergo the strictest investigation, he could not have expected that the smallest objection would be made to the motion he intended to make. Rumours, however, had reached his ears since he came down, that it was intended to oppose it. If it should appear that ministers had disappointed the hopes and expectations of the nation, it was his intention to follow up his motion by an Address to remove them. The important, or rather the calamitous, events that had recently occurred—the portentous stale of all Europe—must have made a deep impression on the minds of their lordships. If it should appear that these calamities were principally owing to ministers having misemployed the resources of the nation, there could be no difference of opinion as to the necessity of immediately placing
383382381380379Earl Grosvenor
384 thought the noble earl had not been correctly informed upon many of the topics on which he had spoken: to go through the whole of them, in the manner proposed by the noble earl, would take up at least two sessions. The noble earl had spoken of some improper paragraphs that had appeared in a public journal, reflecting upon the conduct of a noble lord on the other side, his noble friend; others might be quoted reflecting upon the conduct of other noble lords. Agreeing with the noble earl in his sentiments, respecting the liberty or the press, he trusted that if the press went beyond its due limits, its licentiousness would be punished. As to the propriety of any new law, upon the subject of which the noble earl had spoken, he should deliver no opinion until the case was made out. He could only speak upon most of the topics alluded to by the noble earl, from the same information which the noble earl seemed to rely upon, and which had been chiefly derived from the public journals; he did not think, therefore, that the house was at all in a state to go into the inquiry proposed by the noble earl, nor did he think the mode proposed was that which the house ought to adopt. Noble lords, on the other side, had moved for information upon different points, and when in possession of that information, they could bring those points distinctly before the house; but the general inquiry proposed by the noble earl was not, in his opinion, the mode of inquiry which ought to be adopted.—With respect to the campaign in Spain and Portugal, the plan, as far as he was informed, was good, in being, as he contended, an object of great importance to Spain, and also to this country, to free Portugal from the French, thereby relieving the Spaniards from the enemy in their rear, and at the same time opening the Tagus to our trade, and relieving our old ally. It was afterwards intended to support the armies of Blake and Castanos, that if necessary the army of the latter should retreat to the South, and that our army should retreat to Portugal to defend that country against the French. It unfortunately happened that the armies of Blake and Castanos were destroyed, and that there was no Spanish
384The Duke of Montrose
 urged the necessity of inquiry in the mode proposed by the noble earl, by which all the facts might be brought before the house, relating to those events which had happened within the last six months, and which loudly demanded inquiry.The Earl of Darnley
386 said, that his majesty's ministers, at the prorogation of the last session, had left parliament with the impression that it was the general, and he might say the unanimous opinion, both of the people and the legislature, that every thing ought to be done, which the resources of the country would admit of, in assisting the Spanish nation against the unprincipled and unprovoked attack of their enemy. The question now to be considered was, whether they had executed the trust with which they were charged, conformably to the wishes and expectations of the country? He admitted that the question was of importance, and well worthy of inquiry but, as ministers had not shrunk from investigation, he could not agree either in the necessity or propriety of a motion of so general a nature as bad been proposed by the noble earl this evening. He was willing to allow, that for their conduct upon any of the important measures which had been adopted during the recess, they were responsible; and it was competent for the noble earl, or any other member of that house, to call them to account upon each of these measures individually. But, after 25 years experience in parliament, he could not help thinking, that it required much serious deliberation before their lordships acceded to an enquiry of so general a nature, and which might branch out into such a variety of topics, as that which it was now proposed to institute. If, for example, the noble lord thought that there was any thing relative to the campaign in Portugal, or in Spain, or to the Cintra convention, in which his majesty's ministers were criminally implicated, he might, with perfect propriety, submit a motion to the house upon any of these subjects; which would lead to the investigation of the merits or demerits of their conduct. Bathe trusted
386The Lord Chancellor
 professed that he would have no objection to frame his motion in any shape in which the object of it might be best attained, and to divide the inquiry into different branches, if it was supposed that it would be more convenient and eligible to proceed in this method than in that which he had proposed.Earl Grosvenor
388 acknowledged that the crisis was most important, and that the motion of the noble earl was strictly parliamentary. He acknowledged also, that similar motions had been on former occasions made and agreed to. But in the course of the last twenty years, amid all the awful events which had happened during that time, though motions of a similar nature had been frequently made, in no one instance had they ever been carried into effect. He could not help remarking also, that such motions had been repeatedly made when an administration of which the noble baron (Grenville) was a member, and neither in the case of the retreat from Dunkirk, nor the loss of Holland, had they been acceded to. The reasons for rejecting them on those occasions were the same which should influence his vote on the present; namely, the indefinite nature of such inquiries, and the consideration whether another
388The Earl of Liverpool
389 impressed upon their lordships' attention the importance and urgency of the motion for inquiry. Ministers pleaded their innocence: why, then, did they object to the only means of vindicating it, in the face of the country and of the world? The subject of the present evening's discussion was one in which every individual was interested; he trusted, therefore, that their lordships would act under a deep and solemn impression of the importance of the question on which they were called upon to decide. He had asserted on a former night, and he was ready now to maintain, that ministers had been obviously guilty of the grossest misconduct in regard to Sweden, to America, and to Spain. After having embroiled Sweden with Denmark, they had abandoned our ally in his utmost need. In consequence of their refusal to accede to the proposition which had been made by the American government, and the continued suspension of intercourse between the two countries, no flax-seed had been imported into Ireland, which would occasion a stoppage, or at least a decline in the linen manufacture of that country, in which no less than half a million of persons were employed. The noble earl proceeded to take a review of their conduct in regard to Spain. Upon wrong information, received from sir Charles Cotton, that there were only 5,000 French at
389The Earl of Moira
390 said, that the speech of the noble earl did not at all apply to the question before their lordships. He said, he did not want information to criminate ministers, and yet he complained that no information was given; and he would even have this information supplied with a disregard of all the established forms of parliamentary proceeding. In modern times the method now proposed to incipiate this inquiry had been uniformly and wisely rejected. Why had it been abandoned? Because such a mode seemed to presuppose a cause of complaint against those upon whose conduct no examination had been instituted. The regular form was to apply for those documents which noble lords should consider necessary to assist their purpose; and having obtained these, to examine if there were sufficient grounds for any investigation; and on discovering those grounds to proceed upon the inquiry. The intention appeared to be not seriously to execute the duty the motion manifestly suggested—to search into the real state of the country. What he objected to, was not a full exposition of the condition of public affairs, but to those representations of the national concerns which would paralyse the efforts of the country. He admitted, in common with noble lords opposite to him, that it was an important crisis, that there were times, when all the energies of a mighty people were required to meet the dangers with which we were surrounded: he acknowledged, that we stood on an eminence whence we could discern no intermediate landing places to break our fall, and being
390Lord Harrowby
387 contended, that, if ever there was a time at which a motion for general inquiry ought to be entertained, the present was the moment. It was a moment which, of all others that had ever occurred in the history of the country, loudly called for the counsel and interposition of parliament. With what had just fallen from his noble and learned friend upon the woolsack respecting the liberty of the press, he most heartily concurred. He knew nothing on earth which, in his mind, approached nearer to perfection, than the English laws upon this subject; and if breaches of them at any time occurred, he thought that the persons calumniated were
387Lord Erskine
391 rose to explain, and complained of his arguments having been mis-stated. He had no wish to delude the public opinion, and was ready to re-state what he had said. Neither did he wish to diffuse despair or despondency, or palsy the efforts and energies of government. The experience of his political life, and the sentiments he had always entertained, were at direct variance with such intentions. What he had said was, that his majesty's ministers were pursuing a line of policy which, if persisted in, would ultimately bring the country to ruin. At the same time his advice was, to stand firm, and if the resources and energies of the country were applied with wisdom and policy, the nation would still maintain its pre-eminent rank among nations. No country stood in so proud a situation with respect to its navy. The army, too, if permitted to exercise its valour and discipline with effect, was alike pre-eminent. The resources of the country were unequalled by any other, and the patriotism of the people, and their willingness to bear the burdens imposed upon them, was unexampled. Indeed, the voluntary contribution of the subject frequently foreran the demand, and gave to the exigencies of
391Lord Grenville
385 was surprized that any objection should be made to going into the proposed inquiry, after ministers had so recently and repeatedly declared their readiness and their anxiety to meet inquiry with respect to their conduct. By the inquiry proposed by the noble earl, all the facts respecting that conduct would be elicited, and the house enabled to form its judgment. In the course of that inquiry they would be enabled to ascertain the instructions given to officers in command, and the discretion which was left to those officers. It might be said, that ministers were not responsible for the exercise of a discretion entrusted to officers whom they employed, but it was of the utmost importance to the country that the whole subject should become matter of inquiry; and, however their feelings might revolt at entering into any investigation involving the conduct of an officer now no more, yet public duty demanded that they should assert the exercise of that discretion, in order to complete the inquiry which was so absolutely called for. He did not wish to trouble their lordships with a repetition of what he had said before upon topics involved in this discussion, nor could he allude to information not before the house, although that was the only room in the country, in which information long since before the public, was not made the subject of conversation. Amongst other topics it was surely highly necessary to inquire from what cause it arose that our army, sent to Sweden, remained inactive on board the ships which conveyed it there, and that the gallant officer who commanded it, sir John Moore, was obliged to escape almost in disguise. After ministers had so loudly called for inquiry, he could not conceive why they
385Lord Grenville
439 called the attention of the house to the evils resulting from the present
439The Earl of Moira
703 called their lordships' attention to the subject of the late campaign in Spain and Portugal. Impressed as he was, with a deep sense of the misconduct of ministers, and recollecting that they professed a disposition to put the house in possession of every information that might be requisite to enable parliament and the country to decide upon their measures, he felt it his duty to move for several returns, calculated to attain that object. He understood that the Spanish Juntas particularly solicited the assistance of a respectable body of cavalry. This was precisely that description of force which we could have best spared,
703Earl Darnley
 assured the noble lord and the house, that ministers felt not the least wish to oppose the motion just made. On the contrary, it had their hearty concurrence. He only wished to amend the motion, so as to include a return of the various arrivals of cavalry in Portugal subsequent to the battle of Vimiera, and up to the time of sir John Moore's march into Spain. With the view of still further promoting the purpose of fair and impartial inquiry into the conduct of ministers, he should move for additional papers as soon as the noble lord's motion was disposed of.The Earl of Liverpool
 had no objection to the amendment proposed by the noble secretary, provided the date of the various arrivals of cavalry in Portugal were added. This suggestion being acceded to, the motion was put and agreed to.Earl Darnley
704 then said, that in order to explain, in the most ample manner, the line of conduct adopted by ministers in reference to Spain and Portugal, he felt it necessary to move for copies of the Instructions sent to our commanders in those countries, and the communications from them to ministers, with the exception of such parts as it might he injurious to the public service to publish. He wished noble lords to understand, that the passages he alluded to were such as related to services still depending. As to services completed, there was no intention of withholding any documents that, in the slightest degree, bore upon the discussion of their merits. All that he requested was, that nothing should be done to prejudge the question of what had been the conduct of ministers; and that whatever
704The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to know whether measures had been taken to prevent the French and Spanish fleets in Cadiz harbour from falling into the hands of the enemy. We had now here an ambassador from Spain, who held a high official situation, in that country: and one of the most important points to be arranged with him, was, in his conception, that of securing those fleets, by stipulating that they should be sent to Buenos Ayres, Minorca, or any other place for safety. When he looked to the rapidity of operation that characterized the man who was at the head of the French armies, he was not without apprehensions on this subject. His grace further expressed his hopes that ministers, whatever assistance they might continue to give the Spaniards, in money and supplies, would not rashly put to hazard any considerable portion of our military force.The Duke of Norfolk
798797 said, he should not intrude upon their lordships time; but he wished to observe, that the question seemed to be wholly misunderstood, both by the noble mover and the noble viscount who spoke last. The one said that his object was to discuss the entire merits of the case; the other, that he was desirous of submitting to the notice of his majesty the distrust he felt of the persons at the head of government. The former alluding to the transactions, the latter to those who were concerned in conducting them. The noble lord said he should have thought it more manly to have taken a direct course, instead of attempting to pass a vote of censure thus blended, in which the real design was rendered obscure, He resisted this Address, because it was an unnecessary interposition of the house during a negociation now pending with the United States. Other motives he had for opposing the motion of the noble baron, which he would briefly explain: the origin of the Orders in Council was to be found in the Edicts of Berlin, which had violated all the maritime and neutral rights that had been recognized in Europe for centuries. The first proceeding in consequence of those Edicts, the Order in Council, was of the7th of January, 1807; and the nature of it had been misapprehended. The rule of the war of 1756 was supposed to be the effect of the Order in Council; but if this were all, the Order itself would have been unproductive and nugatory; if such were the whole result, it would have been incompetent to encounter the Berlin Decrees, which extended not only to France, but to all the nations dependant upon her authority. The rule of the war of 1756 might merely be considered as a coasting Regulation, the Order in Council of the 7th of January was founded on the just principle of retaliation, and so it had been correctly explained in Lord Howick's admirable letter on the subject.— He (lord M.) had stated, that the Berlin Edicts were a violation of all maritime and neutral rights. But there were neutral duties as well as neutral rights. A neutral state should hold the balance even between the belligerent powers; and if this duty were neglected, the neutral rights would be forfeited. Lord Howick properly contemplated these duties, and seeing the preference which must be given to France under the operation of the Edicts, he properly observed, that he could not rescind the Orders in Council until those Edicts were re-
798797Lord Melville
 admitted that the noble viscount had argued his propositions with great fairness, but totally differed in the conclusions deduced from them. He was not accurate in observing, that the revocation of the Embargo would be the only beneficial consequence of the abandonment of our Orders in Council; Mr. Pinckney had distinctly referred to other advantageous effects of such a concession. Nor were the noble lords quite justified in the remark, that the Embargo originated in the Edicts of Berlin. It was the consequence of the Orders in Council, which although not officially announced in America, were known there to have been adopted when the Embargo was resorted to, and such was the reason assigned in many of the eloquent speeches lately delivered in the senatorial assemblies of the United States. Be the cause, however, what it might, we could not act more impoliticly, than by such orders to compel America to supply herself by her own internal industry, with those manufactures she formerly procured from Great Britain, which was attended with this double inconvenience, of raising to our traders here the price of the raw commodity, and lessening the demand for the article in its manufactured state. The noble Viscount seemed not to be satisfied with the assurances of the American minister; but no scruples would any longer remain, since there had been an act of the legislature in which a power had been given to the executive authority to rescind the Embargo, as soon as the British Orders in Council should have been repealed. In addition to this important and exclusive advantage, a commercial war, at least, would be waged by the United States against France, and all the abundant benefits would result from the concession, which an extensive intercourse with America must inevitably secure.Lord Auckland
799 having left the woolsack, said, that the late ministers had perfectly concurred in the principle of retaliation, which it was the object of those Orders in Council to regard and enforce. To agree to the Address would be to contradict every opinion their lordships had before pronounced, unless some new case could be presented which rendered a
799The Lord Chancellor
 explained, and stated, that he only said, that if the same disposition to friendship prevailed in America now as when Washington and Adams were in office, the same difficulties would not be felt.The Earl of Liverpool
l.802801 supported the Orders in Council, as being founded upon the right, which every belligerent nation had, of retaliating upon its enemy the acts of aggression, which that enemy had adopted against it. He considered the evil of the Orders in Council, as they affected America, only as incidental consequences of the just retaliation, which, as a neutral nation she, could have no right to impute to Great Britain as an act of hostility, or of unjustifiable violence upon her neutrality; but should seek redress from France, with whom the first cause of complaint originated. America should call on the aggressor to redress the wrong he had committed and return to the law of nations. On this subject he had never any contradiction with the late Government, and the principle, upon which he was now arguing, he said, was to be found expressly laid down in lord Howick's letter to Mr. Rich. He contended also, that the Milan Decree of the 10th of December could afford no reason for the Order of the 10th; January. With respect to the offers of America; he treated them as very unsatisfactory. America, he said, had shewed no disposition to act properly towards us, I but, on the contrary, had held out every
l.802801The Earl of Liverpool
Et clauso carcere regnet.— I llâ se jactet in aulâactNon ill imperium Pelagi sævumque tridentem, Sed mihi sorte datum,795had been794793792l.,mitigated retaliation!791privation from that ancient and established principle of maritime law,a deviation790their own;789788 said, that, notwithstanding the reasons assigned by the noble earl (Bathurst) who spoke last, for the issue of the Orders in Council of November 1807, he had always supposed the chief cause of that measure to have been a conviction on the part of His Majesty's Ministers, that the danger arising from the power and influence of France was only to be counteracted by means similar to those which had produced it. Against this doctrine, particularly as applied to our conduct towards neutral States, he should ever protest; being fully convinced, that a strict observance, without encroachment or concession, of the true and established principles of public law, of which the maritime code formed a material part, was not only due to our national character, but far better calculated to secure our commercial interests and maintain our maritime power.— Of the principles to which he had adverted, those which bore upon the present subject, were, 1st, That neutrals have a right to carry on,
Et clauso carcere regnet.— I llâ se jactet in aulâactNon ill imperium Pelagi sævumque tridentem, Sed mihi sorte datum,795had been794793792l.,mitigated retaliation!791privation from that ancient and established principle of maritime law,a deviation790their own;789788Viscount Sidmouth
787786785784 in delivering his sentiments upon the motion which had been submitted to their lordships, did not mean to follow his noble friend through all the topics which he had introduced into his speech; but proposed to confine himself to that head of discussion to which their attention had been principally directed, namely, the Orders in Council. Upon the origin of the American War, which had not escaped his noble friend's animadversion, he would refer them to some family notes upon that event, which were, he presumed, in his possession. The main object of his noble friend's motion was to address his majesty to renew the negociation with the American government, for the purpose of adjusting the existing differences between the two countries. That it was perfectly within the competence of their lordships to resort to such a measure, he was ready to admit, at the same time, that he considered it to be a right in the exercise of which much caution was required. Indeed, such in his mind was the delicacy of interfering with the executive government in matters of negociation, that he thought it generally a preferable mode of proceeding, when their conduct failed of giving satisfaction, at once to address his majesty to dismiss the ministers composing it from his councils. The greater part of the noble lord's speech was, indeed, an attack upon ministers, and of their conduct as connected in particular with the Orders in Council he disapproved on three grounds: Ist, He was of opinion that they were originally unjust and impolitic: 2dly, That their consequences were such as ought long ago to have led to their repeal; and 3dly, That the proposition made by America to this country in August last, ought to have been accepted. The noble earl attempted a refutation of lord Grenville's arguments upon each of these separate heads. The justice and policy of the Orders, he endeavoured to shew from the violence of the enemy's aggressions, the necessity we
787786785784Earl Bathurst,
800 said, that in every discussion on the Orders in Council, and as an answer to every statement of the calamities that had flowed from them, it was the constant and invariable practice of noble lords on the other side to refer to the order of the 7th of January. Accordingly, his noble and learned friend had laid all upon the 7th of January; though certainly nothing could be more distinct than the measure of that period and the memorable Orders in Council which were the source and fountain of the incalculable mischiefs which the noble lord, the mover of the question had so emphatically described. The noble and learned lord had described the admirable paper of his noble friend as the joint production of the states man and the lawyer. Highly as he would be flattered by the reputation of having contributed, in the least degree, to the composition of that paper, he must declare, that he had only to admire it in common with every man who heard it, but could lay claim to no part of its merits. It contained in itself the whole statement, and all the argument of the case. He had no occasion to refresh his memory by looking back to his own minutes. It presented him with a full view of the impolicy, the mischief, the ruin of the measure. The noble and learned lord (Erskine) summoned the secretary of state (according to the fashion of the day) to meet him fairly on the point, and say whether it would not be much more advantageous, as well as more graceful in the British Government, to take advantage of the proposition, which the Americans had made to the two belligerent's, and instantly to do away the Ordure in Council. He challenged him to meet and argue the case fairly; whether, even on their own proceeding, this would not be the more prudent as well as more dignified course. By the letter of Mr. Erskine, they had directed him to say, that if the French did away their Decree, our
800Lord Erskine
783782781l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.,780779778777776775774773772 rose and spoke as follows: It will he in the recollection of your lordships, that I gave notice towards the latter end of last session of a motion grounded upon the Evidence which had then recently been taken at the bar, to address his majesty to rescind the Orders in Council. I was induced to withdraw that notice in consequence of some favourable reports which I then heard as grateful to my feelings, as, if realised, they would have proved beneficial to the best interests of
783782781l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.,780779778777776775774773772Lord Grenville
803 said, that at so late an hour of the night he should not think of troubling their lordships, but with a very few words indeed. He adverted with great feeling to the allusion that had been made by a noble earl (Bathurst) to Mr. Grenville, as having been the first cause of the separation of America from Great Britain. He corrected the noble earl's statement, and shewed from dates, that though Mr. George Grenville had more than 40 years ago proposed a small tax on the United States, yet the measure was in a few months repealed; and when afterwards taken up by another minister of the crown, it had met with his warm opposition, as a measure, which once conceded upon principle, ought never to have been resumed. The least calamity, that flowed from that inconsiderate measure, was the separation of the colonies; the real calamity was the loss of character which the parent state incurred. When the noble earl therefore recalled his view to the conduct of his ancestor, in regard to America, he recalled to him only what gave him pride and satisfaction. He next alluded to what had fallen from a noble viscount (Melville,) but as he had left the house, he should not combat the opinions he had held— one thing, however he deplored— that the noble viscount had left the house, and had not heard the language of his majesty's Secretary of State, who had spoken last— for the noble viscount had said, that, he would vote for the Address moved this night, if he saw any indisposition in the king's minister to negociate with America in the spirit of peace. Now, if he had heard the noble earl who had just sat down, he must have been convinced that there was no amicable disposition in his majesty's government towards America, and consequently he must have voted, on his own principles, for the Address. — The noble lord painted in strong colours the argument of the noble earl (Liverpool), in his attempt to raise a difference in the proposition that had been made by America to the two belligerents, though, by a comparison it would, be
803Lord Grenville
841 moved the order of the day for the second reading of this bill. His lordship said it was unnecessary for him to take up much of the time of the house on the subject of the present bill. The prin-
841The Earl of Liverpool
 briefly reviewed the effects of the mode of recruiting the army, contained in the Bill before their lordships, since it was first adopted in 1799. At that period it was a measure of imperious necessity. The necessity, fortunately, was not so strong at this moment, though still sufficiently so, he must admit, to justify the present measure. He had many objections to the measure. Its object was to provide for the augmentation of the disposable force at the expence of the Militia. He could not approve of the practice of enlisting men for one species of service, and afterwards seducing them into another. He regretted that ministers had not availed themselves of the popular enthusiasm in favour of Spain to procure recruits for the army. Had they done so, he was persuaded the present measure would have been wholly unnecessary. However, as he heard of no other expedient from any quarter for keeping up the army to that efficient establishment which was universally admitted to be necessary, he would not, for that reason, and the extraordinary emergency of the moment, oppose the bill.Viscount Sidmouth
1135 moved, that in consequence of the
1135Mr. Bankes
1136l.l.d. moved for leave to bring in a bill for the more convenient payment of the annuities and other allowances to the Widows of Naval and Marine Officers, and those on the Compassionate List. About the year 1732 a fund was established, by the government of that day, for the relief of the widows of the officers of the navy, towards which it was deemed expedient to levy a deduction of 31136l.l.d.Mr. W. Wellesley Pole
 pursuant to notice, rose to move that the house be called over on Wednesday the 8th of March. The question to come before the house that day was of the utmost importance, and therefore he conceived that the fullest possible attendance of members was necessary. With that view, and with that only it was, that he should now move for a call of the house on that day.Lord Folkestone,
1137 said, that he should not have thought it necessary to make such a motion, when he considered the manner in which the house had been attended during the whole of the time when the important subject alluded to by the noble lord was under investigation; and therefore he had no doubt of a full attendance upon the day appointed for taking that most important subject again into consideration. The
1137The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 assured the right hon. gent, that he had no intention of further postponing the business, neither was any such intention entertained by his hon. friend (Mr. Wardle).Lord Folkestone
 thought the call of the house equally unnecessary and improper. He should think it quite impossible that in so short a period as eight days, it would have any effect in bringing gentlemen from the remotest corners of the united kingdom. It would be merely a call in name, and not in effect. From the full attendance of members during the whole of the inquiry, there could be no doubt of a full attendance on the night of discussion; and although a tolerable opinion of a subject might be formed on written evidence, yet perhaps it was going too far to call on members coming from a distance, who would not have time to examine and consider the printed evidence, after their arrival in town, in order to form their opinions to decide upon so solemn a subject perhaps the day after.Mr. Bathurst
 approved of the motion for a call of the house, and thought, that although it could not be expected to procure the attendance of members from Scotland and Ireland, yet if it only obtained that of half a dozen additional members, upon such an occasion, even that would be of some importance.Mr. C. Adams
1138 also thought the call could not be effectual. It appeared to him that to attempt enforcing this call at
1138General Gascoyne
 said he felt the call could. I not be so effective as was desirable, upon so short a notice; and was himself very sorry it had not occurred to him to move for it at an earlier day. He hoped, however, the house, in justice to its authority, would enforce the call for the 8th of March; for however it might be afterwards disposed to excuse those members who could shew reasonable cause for their non-attendance then, he could hardly suppose that some question would not arise out of the proceedings of that day of the utmost moment, which would, at an early subsequent day, call for solemn decision, and consequently render necessary the fullest possible attendance of members.Lord Folkestone
 thought that a call of the house, on so short a notice, was unprecedented. It was something so preposterous, that when he heard of the noble lord's avowed intention, he thought it quite impossible that he could be serious. The attendance of the house already upon this subject had been remarkably full; they had divided more than a majority of the whole house, and he did not think that at the present season, and at so short a notice, there was any chance of a further attendance. Besides, he would ask, was it a desirable thing that members who had never heard a word of the evidence in this case, should be called on to decide upon the question, who perhaps would not arrive till the day before, and could not have time to read or consider the written evidence? There were many members who did not wish to interfere in this question. Was it desirable to bring such men from the remotest corners of Ireland or Scotland? And, besides, though the house had authority to enforce their attendance at a call on that day, it had no authority afterwards to prevent their going out again, or to force them to vote, he was decidedly opposed to the call, and should take the sense of the house upon it.Mr. Bankes
1139 said, that the hon. member who had all of a sudden shewn so much tenderness towards the members from Ireland, and reluctance to inconvenience them, had asserted that a call at so
1139Sir J. Newport
de die in diem. answered, that this was in the case of a ballot for an election committee, where the call was pending de die in diem.Mr. Bankes
 instanced another case en the Journals during the discussion of the Slave trade in 1791, where there was a call of the house at eight days notice.Lord Folkestone
 stated, that in consequence of what had passed in the house on Friday last, he thought the subject which had been then alluded to was of a nature that required that parliament should express its opinion upon it. He rather wished that the business should have been taken up by some member of greater experience. He, however, felt so strongly convinced of the necessity of some Resolution, that he should, without losing any time, give notice, that it was his intention to move a Resolution, "That it was consistent with the duty and privileges of that house, to come to a determination on Evidence examined at their bar, without submitting the case to any other tribunal." Although this question had no necessary bearing upon the subject which was to be discussed next week, yet as it might have a collateral and indirect bearing, he wished to defer moving that Resolution, until the house should come to a decision on the question. He hoped the great importance of the subject would excuse him to the house, for giving this notice in a more detailed form than was usual.Mr. C. Wynn
 asked the hon. member what day he chose the notice to stand for.The Speaker
 replied for Monday se'nnight.Mr. Wynn
1140 thought, that it would be a fairer way to have this Resolution brought forward before the discussion, in order that the matter might be put at rest, and that there might not be a suspicion suspended over the head of his royal highness that, in writing that letter,
1140The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed perfectly with what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If there had been any violation of the privileges of that house, the common course was, that complaints of breach of privilege took precedence of all other discussions. When the consideration and rank of the party accused were taken into the account, he thought, however, a great deal of latitude and indulgence should be allowed. For these reasons, as well as those which had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—Mr. Bathurst
 here interfered, and stated, that it was contrary to the usage of the house to enter into any discussion on notices given. There was, perhaps, some little irregularity in introducing a notice with observations, but there never could be discussion upon a mere notice of a motion to be made on a future day.The Speaker
1141 rose to make some observations on what had fallen on a former night, from an hon. member (Mr. W. Smith), whom he was sorry not to see then in his place, upon a subject that it would have been his duty to have answered him on that slight, if he had then been in the house. Fie could not help saying, that the topic alluded to was one of those that ought not upon light grounds to be stated to the house. Although it was supposed that nothing was repeated that passed in that house, yet the fact was well known, that what was stated in that house was not only read in this but hi other countries, and the common enemy could derive great advantage from any thing which Could tend to make jealousies between his majesty and his allies. The statement of the hon. member was, as he was informed, that the Sicilian government and nation were in such a state that it was our duty to propose something of political regeneration to them. He could assure the house, that there existed the most cordial good understanding and co-operation between the government of this country and the Sicilian government, as also between the armies of the two countries. Our officers regulated almost all their military operations, and it was understood that if
1141Mr. Sec. Canning
2 moved the postponement of it till Tuesday next, as he wished to look previously into one of the clauses respecting the settlements on the marriage. He took this occasion to say, that the frequency of Divorce Bills in the present session had been to him a subject of much pain and indignation. That frequency was an evil of the first magnitude, affecting the character of the higher ranks of society, and contaminating the morals of every class in the united kingdom. It was an evil which called loudly and imperiously for the intervention of parliament. Perhaps, the best remedy would be to make adultery an indictable crime to be punished by fine and imprisonment. It might also be useful to enact the provision which he had formerly proposed, and which their lordships had adopted, to prohibit the intermarriage of the offending parties. It would further be desirable, as had been suggested to him by the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, to put some checks and regulations on judgments by default, in actions of damages for criminal conversation. He would not pledge himself to the task of bringing forward a bill; but he would only repeat, that it had become a sacred duty incumbent on parliament, not to suffer the present session to elapse without taking some
2Lord Auckland
 adverted to what had been said on a former day by a noble lord (Moira), respecting a letter referred to in a dispatch from lord Castlereagh to sir Arthur Wellesley, dated the 15th of July, which purported to be an Instruction to sir Hew Dalrymple, to pledge the British government to assist the Junta of Seville with 10,000 men, and observed, that there appeared to have been a mistake in the date referred to as the date of the letter to sir Hew Dalrymple, namely, the 6th of July; but he had found the paper, which he conceived was referred to, and therefore laid it on the table.The Earl of Liverpool
 was satisfied that the paper produced was that which was meant. —The paper was ordered to be printed.The Earl of Moira
 with respect to the Letters of Mr. Frere, repeated, that they were private letters to sir John Moore, and were not transmitted home by that officer, nor referred to in any of his dispatches, public or private; neither had they any operation with respect to the march of the army. For these and other reasons, which he should state when the motion was made, he should resist the production of the Letters. With respect to Communications with the Spanish government, relative to the landing of troops from this country, it would be found, on reference to the dispatches from the Officers employed, that very full information was given upon that point, and with respect to any supposed agreement with that government to land troops at any other port, he could state, that no such agreement was made; there had been under other circumstances an agreement to send troops to another part of Spain; but this did not apply to the troops sent to Corunna, for whose landing no other port was appointed.The Earl of Liverpool,
 urged the necessity of-producing the Letters alluded to.The Earl of Darnley
643 admitted that such Instructions were sent to sir H. Dalrymple: there must of course, in the execution of such a measure be something left to his discretion, but ministers were responsible for the measure. He could not, however, consent to the production of the dispatch alluded to. There were necessarily in it, allusions to the conduct of individuals, and particular instructions founded upon those comments which it would be improper to make public: upon another ground also he objected to it. Having reconquered Portugal for our ancient ally, it was the object of his majesty's government to reestablish, as far as possible, the government which had been established there by the legitimate authority of the sovereign. The Regency had therefore been formed as a provisionary government, until the decision of the Prince Regent of Portugal should be
643The Earl of Liverpool
 thought, that ministers very ill supported the wish they had expressed, that the fullest information upon this subject should be laid before the house, when they refused the document now moved for, and which it was of great importance should be in the possession of their lordships.The Earl of Rosslyn
 urged the necessity of having the paper before the house. It would indeed be making short work of their proceedings, if they were to accept the admission of a Minister instead of the papers elucidating the facts. They say we admit the act, but that was not enough, we must know the motives that led to the act, and the grounds on which it rested, and thus be enabled to judge of the proceeding, which it was impossible they could do from the mere admission of the noble Secretary of State.Earl Grey
642 could not conceive that Letters sent by his majesty's accredited minister at Madrid, to the officer commanding the British army in Spain, could, in any sense, be considered as private letters, at
642Earl Grey
641 gave notice, that he should move to-morrow se'nnight for the production of the Letters from Mr. Frere to sir John Moore, which he conceived to be of considerable importance, with a view to that full information which it was necessary the house should have before them. He should therefore move that the lords be summoned for that day. There was another subject which demanded the most serious consideration of their lordships, and which involved one of the greatest calamities that had ever befallen the country: he alluded to the advance and retreat of the British army in Spain. He could not, at present, ascertain whether the information
641Earl Grey
 contended, that no sufficient: ground had been laid for the production of the paper, and that the admission of his noble friend, would answer every purpose that could be answered by the production of such extract of the document, as it might be deemed advisable to produce, and which would probably amount to nothing more than to what his noble friend had stated.Lord Harrowby
 protested against the principle set up by the noble Secretary of State, that an admission of the fact stated, should serve instead of the document wished for, which contained the motives and circumstances of the transaction. If the patriotism and ardour of the Portuguese was less displayed than it had been in an earlier period of the contest, was it not of importance the house should have the means of ascertaining, if this was to be attributed to any measure of our own government, which had been unsatisfactory to the people?Viscount Sidmouth
644 opposed the production of the paper, observing, that it would be an extraordinary proceeding to doubt the veracity of his noble friend; and that there might be considerable aukwardness if the
644Lord Mulgrave
 was willing to admit the force of the objection that the paper contained matter that ought not to be made public, but could not admit that which rested upon the sufficiency of the admission of the fact by the noble earl.—The question was then put and the motion negatived.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 adverted to what had been said on a former evening respecting the Regency in Portugal, and observed, that it appeared by the narrative of sir Hew Dalrymple that he had received a dispatch on the 3rd of September, dated the 19th of August, containing Instructions for the formation of the Regency. He thought it of considerable importance that this Letter should be produced, in order that the house might be aware of the nature of those Instructions, and of the motives which influenced them. It had been said by the noble Secretary of State on a former evening, that Portugal must follow the fate of the Peninsula, but surely much might have been done in Portugal to influence the fate of Spain, if measures had been adopted in that country satisfactory to the people, and calculated to rouse their patriotism and military ardour in defence of the common cause. He also wished to have produced the Correspondence with the Portuguese minister, and that it might be ascertained whether the measures adopted in Portugal were with his consent, or contrary to his wish? His lordship concluded by moving for the Letter to sir Hew Dalrymple, containing Instructions for forming the Regency.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 denied that there was any attempt to doubt the veracity of the noble Secretary of State; the unfitness of the paper to be produced, from its containing matter that ought not to be made public, was a matter of opinion, and not a matter of fact. He was decidedly of opinion, that the Paper ought to be produced for the information of the house.Lord Erskine
794 called the attention of the house to a topic which lie deemed of considerable importance, viz. the hasty and rapid manner with which a number of Public Bills, some of them of great national I importance, were hurried through both houses of Parliament, particularly their lordship's house, so as to preclude the possibility of any thing like a deliberate and adequate discussion of the subject-matter of these acts. This he thought was a serious grievance, and to which some remedy should be applied. As an instance of the justness of this position, he stated, that within the last month no fewer than seventy five Bills, all of more or less public importance, had come up to their lordships from the house of Commons, where, from the nature of things, they could not receive the necessary degree of deliberate discussion. He had farther to remark, that important Public Bills were frequently sent up to that house from the other house, at periods of the session when it was impossible, either from the thin attendance of peers at those periods of the year, or from the very advanced period of the sessions, when in fact they were drawing to a close, to consider of and discuss those measures in that full and deliberate manner which their importance called for. He did not mean to impute blame to any noble lord, or particular individual; but he trusted that what he now
794Lord Auckland
795 did not conceive it necessary at present, particularly as no question was regularly before the house, to enter into any detailed considerations of the topic to which the noble barons adverted. There evidently was of late years, in consequence of the unprecedented increase of the commerce, wealth, and internal prosperity of the empire, such an increase and accumulation of legislative acts and regulations, of more or less importance or necessity, as unavoidably to afford less time for the detailed consideration or discussion of each particular measure; and this was an unavoidable consequence. In the present session, their lordships would have to consider that the other house of parliament was engaged so closely, for an unexpectedly great
795The Earl of Liverpool
 approved of the sentiments expressed by the noble Secretary of State, towards the close of his observations; he fully agreed with what was said by his noble friends near him on the subject of so serious a grievance; but he could not avoid remarking the silence of the noble lord as to the circumstance of such a large portion of the bills passed should have been suffered to take place in the last three weeks of the last session.The Earl of Moira
 in explanation, enforced his former remarks. He agreed in much of what fell from the noble secretary of state, particularly as to the great increase of the wealth and commerce of the empire, a consideration which, perhaps, could not be better exemplified than in the circumstance, that in the year 1761 only twenty-nine public bills were passed; and in the last four weeks of the present session, no fewer than seventy-five bills passed the legislature. As noble lords seemed to coincide with him that something was proper to be attempted in the way of remedy, he would move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the number of public and private Acts which have passed through both houses of parliament within a given period, and to report their opinions thereon to the house.Lord Auckland,
796 however he acknowledged the propriety of endeavouring to apply some remedy to the inconveniences complained of, begged the noble lords to recollect that it was of the most serious
796The Lord Chancellor,
 suggested, as one part of a remedy so much to be desired, that parliament should be assembled earlier in the winter, and not prorogued until near the end of January, which obliged it to keep sitting during some of the hot months of summer.The Duke of Norfolk
797 requested leave, before their lordships proceeded to the order of the day, to address a few observations to the house, and to submit a proposition which he deemed of great importance. He alluded to a part of the conduct of his majesty's ministers, respecting the recent warfare in Spain, which was at best highly questionable, but which, in his mind, called for the most serious and early explanation, viz. the great omission of not adopting measures to secure the numerous and powerful Spanish Squadron, comprising three three-deckers, and several large ships of the line, which was stationed at Ferrol, from falling into the hands of the enemy. This he thought was a circumstance easy to have been effected, when he considered the state of circumstances for a long interval in that part of the peninsula, and the long presence of a powerful British force. He did not mean, however, that this most important object was to be effected by force, but it might have been done by means of arrangement, and in a way in which the interests of the allied nations might both have been consulted. He did not mean at present to say any thing harsh respecting the affair of Copenhagen, whatever he thought of it; but according to the best information be could get, he had reason to think, notwithstanding the effects of that measure, that it might have been so arranged with the Spanish government, that the squadron alluded to might have been removed, by means of the British fleet, to a place of safety. Yet in all the documents he had read there was scarcely any reference to this object, which was of the most obvious importance, and. would have struck the commonest minds as an object necessary to
797Lord Auckland
798 had heard, with considerable alarm, the statement of the noble lord. The ships had been considered as essential to the defence of the place; and yet Ferrol had surrendered without resistance. By the same mode of argument, the fleet at Cadiz might also fall into the possession of the enemy. Surely, some means might have been found of removing the ships at Ferrol from the power of the
798The Duke of Norfolk
 had always deprecated any attempt to obtain a partial object for our own advantage, in the assistance given to Spain. It had constantly been the policy of his majesty's ministers to give a disinterested support to the Spanish cause, from which, ultimately, the greater advantage would arise, and from which, already many advantages had flowed. He was glad to hear the noble lord (Grenville) say, that force and violence ought not to have been resorted to, and he trusted the noble baron was prepared to go further and to say, that neither threat nor menace ought to have been adopted towards our ally.—With respect to the question of the noble duke, he expected to have his majesty's commands to lay the Treaty with the Spanish government before the house on Monday.The Earl of Liverpool
800 rose to move for several additional Papers respecting the campaign in Spain. His lordship read several motions, the first of which was, for the production of the Letters of Mr. Frere and Mr. Stuart to Sir John Moore and Sir David Baird, which, he understood, would not be objected to. The others were for the production of several Dispatches from Mr. Secretary Canning to Mr. Frere, a Dispatch from sir John Moore, dated the 13th of January last, a Letter from general Brodrick, which he considered to be important to the discussion of the Spanish question, as it related to the deficiency of cavalry in Spain, a deficiency the more inexcusable, as we had a force of twenty one thousand cavalry, eighteen thousand of which might have been spared for the assistance of Spain. Also the dispatch from lord Castlereagh to sir Hew Dalrymple, dated the 4th September, with the in-closures, and the instructions to Sir Hew Dalrymple, with respect to the formation of the Regency in Portugal, both which had before been moved for and refused, but which he still thought essential to the discussion of the general question. He did
800The Earl of Darnley
 adverted to the grounds on which he had before objected to the production of Mr. Frere's letters, they never having been officially transmitted by sir John Moore. That this was not done might easily be accounted for, by the multiplicity of business which pressed upon that gallant officer. He admitted that the letters were in the possession of a member of his majesty's government; but still the objection remained, that they were not strictly official. He had also objected that they had no operation upon the march of the army in Spain. He understood, however, that persons nearly connected with sir John Moore, were extremely anxious for their production, and he would not now oppose their being laid before the house. With respect to the letters of Mr. Stuart, they were not in the possession of his majesty's government. To the production of one of the dispatches from Mr. Secretary Canning, alluded to in a dispatch from lord Castlereagh of the 13th December, he objected, as it referred prospectively to future circumstances, and could not, without detriment to the public service, be produced. With respect to the dispatch from sir John Moore, dated the 13th January, it required consideration, whether it was expedient to produce it. To the other motions he had no objection, with the exception of the two, which had before been refused, and to which he must still object, as the publication of them would be detrimental to the public service. The letter from general Brodrick he had no objection to produce, and upon this point, with respect to the cavalry, he would take occasion to say, that it would be found when the question came to be discussed, that there was no objection made against the conduct of Ministers less founded or more futile, than that of the deficiency of cavalry.The Earl of Liverpool
 proposed a motion for some further papers respecting communications between Mr. Frere and the President of Spain.The Earl of Rosslyn
799 agreed to withdraw his motion for the present, in consequence of what had been said by the noble lord; but he would not believe that such could have been the conduct of the Spaniards, until the documents were before the house,
799Lord Auckland
801 apologized for in-
801The Earl of Liverpool
 stated in reply, that the inclosures to which the motion referred, were the observations of the Portuguese Minister upon the conclusion of the Armistice. His majesty's government had thought it expedient to transmit them to sir Hew Dalrymple, and it was upon the impropriety of making public the representation of the Portuguese minister, that he felt a compliance with the noble earl's motion injurious to the public service.The Earl of Liverpool
802 answered, that the original letter, without the inclosures, could not afford the noble earl the infor-
802The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that it was the usage to resort to public rejoicings, when the country of an ally was evacuated by the enemy, in consequence of the operations of British Troops. In accordance with that usage, the Tower gnus were fired on the communication of the Convention of Cintra being concluded. It did not, however, follow, that therefore his majesty's government had approved of all the Articles of that measure. He did believe that it was usual to order similar demonstrations of public rejoicings, when an Island belonging to the enemy was taken possession 'of by British Troops, although very strong objections were entertained by government at home, with respect to the specific provisions of that capitulation.The Earl of Liverpool
 contended, that if the objection of his majesty's government only extended to the enclosures, he trusted for the acquiescence of his majesty's ministers, in the amendment which he should propose for the production of either a copy or extract of the letter of lord Castlereagh of the 4th of September, without the inclosures.Earl Grey
 observed, that a heavy responsibility rested upon ministers with respect to the Spanish navy. They had suffered the fleet at Ferrol to fall into the hands of the enemy, and if the plea they had set up was to be allowed, with what hope could they look to the other ports of Spain? It was not only at Cadiz, as stated by a noble duke, that there was a Spanish fleet, but there was also at Carthagena a considerable squadron, which had lately arrived there from Minorca, and the responsibility rested with Ministers, that these fleets should not be converted by the enemy into instruments of hostility against this country.Earl Grey
 said, that the topic to which the motion referred was one of equal delicacy and importance. He would not say that farther information officially might not be laid before the house on this subject, but he begged leave now to state, that his majesty's government were by no means unmindful of that important object; that the British admiral in command in that quarter had offered to take those ships under his protection; but it was represented to him by the Spanish commanders, that Ferrol was sufficiently strong to be able to resist the attacks of the enemy, and that the ships in question would be of essential service in enabling them to repel such attacks. Let noble lords for a moment consider our relative situation with the Spanish nation at the time, cooperating with them as friends and allies, and say, whether the alternative of force would have been justifiable on the part of the British?—and the more so, on an occasion in which the Spaniards thought their own best interests and immediate safety to be essentially concerned. He must add, that under the present relative circumstances of the two countries, such a discussion as the noble lord's motion would be injurious to the public service.Lord Mulgrave
 was disposed to agree with the noble earl, that neither force nor violence, nor threat, nor menace, ought to have been used; but deeply lamented, that after the statement made With respect to the ships being essential to the defence of Ferrol, that that place should have surrendered without resistance.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 could not reconcile the dissatisfaction, which the noble earl stated to have been felt by ministers, with the demonstration of public reconcile which took place when the first account of the Armistice was received. At all events, he thought it but justice to Sir flew Dalrymple that the dispatch of the 4th should be laid before the house.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 could not conceive how any man, even in the wildest stretch of imagination, could fancy that there was any possibility of danger to his majesty's service, from a compliance with the limited and qualified amendment of his noble friend.Lord Grenville
 said, after the wish expressed by the noble lord, his noble friend would probably withdraw his motion, but he trusted his noble friend, on again making it, would enlarge it, so as to include all the communications which had taken place on this subject. He had heard with pain, the statement of the noble lord, and could not but think that there had been a great want of prudence and foresight in the conduct of ministers, in not having taken measures to secure the fleet at Ferrol from the grasp of the enemy. He did not mean to say, that they ought to have resorted to force and violence against an ally, but he thought they had been deficient in measures of friendship and conciliation, which would have produced a far different effect.Lord Grenville
 could not allow that the not sending these letters should be in any manner charged upon the distinguished officer now no more. It was the duly of his majesty's minister at Madrid, to transmit officially to the Secretary of State the Letters which he had officially written to sir John Moore. He did not mean to impute blame to Mr. Frere for not transmitting the letters, but if there was any blame it ought to attach to the living minister, and not to the memory of the illustrious commander whom we had unfortunately lost.Lord Grenville
 thought it necessary to take notice of an observation made by the noble Secretary of State, imputing blame to sir John Moore for not transmitting the letters of Mr. Frere.Lord Grenville
 rose, and supported what had been advanced, as worthy the most serious attention of Parliament. He deprecated what he conceived to be the hasty and careless manner in which several bills, particularly of late, had been carried through the house of Commons; and referred to a case in the Votes of that house then lying on the table, where a most serious mistake had been made by one of the clerks in a Public Bill; and the ground on which he excused himself was, that he was not allowed sufficient time to read or go through the bills correctly. If such therefore was found to be an allowable excuse on the part of a clerk, how much more hurried and pressed for time to consider and discuss the respective measures, must have been the members of the legislature? The manner in which many bills had been hurried through that house also was what he must deprecate, as tending to deprive their lordships of their due weight and share in the exercise of the legislative functions, and as seeming to render that house little more than as a chamber to register the acts of the other. Of the practice of sending up bills from the house of commons so very late in the session as to preclude the possibility of adequate discussion, he must join his noble friend in reprehending. This was a grievance particularly to be complained of in the last session, when nearly one half of the important Public Bills passed during the whole, were sent up to that house during the last three weeks of the session.Lord Grenville
 considered it his duty to call for the production of a Letter written by sir John Moore to lord Castlereagh, which, in his opinion, was necessary, with the other papers already moved for, to assist the house in deciding upon the measures adopted during the Campaigns in Spain and Portugal. He should, therefore, move, "That there he laid before the house a copy, or extracts, of sir John Moore's letter of the 13th of January last, to lord Castlereagh."The Earl of Durnley
 said, that, at the time the other papers were communicated to the house, respecting the measures which had been pursued in Spain, it had been thought improper to produce the document just now moved for. He would assure the house, when this letter came to be placed on their lordships' table, they would then clearly perceive the impropriety of its being produced before them. When sir John Moore wrote the letter alluded to, he expressed himself as desiring it might not be considered a public and official communication, because he was not enabled at that instant to convey a more correct statement, but should take an early opportunity of sending a more accurate dispatch. The letter also contained other matter, which clearly shewed sir John Moore never intended it to be considered or produced as a public document. These were the reasons which would have inclined his majesty's government not to have acceded to the production; but when noble lords opposite were so strenuous in maintaining a contrary opinion, upon second consideration he should think it right not to resist the motion, because, although considerable detriment was done by acceding to the production of letters of this description, still more injury might arise, if, after being repeatedly called upon, they should withhold the communication. He was therefore disposed not to resist the noble earl's motion, but was the more readily inclined to accede to it on account of its being worded in that way which left the production discretionary as to a copy or extracts.The Earl of Liverpool
 trusted that the noble earl, who had upon second consideration acceded to another motion, would also be induced to accede to the one he was about to propose, particularly if the noble earl reconsidered that what before he entertained as a doubt, could not form any serious objection. It would be observed, on reference to the papers already produced, there was a deficiency which ought to be supplied, and he could perceive no ground for objecting to the production of all Instructions given to our different ministers resident in Spain, and their communications respecting the same to his majesty's Secretaries of State. After a few observations in support of its being proper and necessary, the noble earl moved. "That a copy of all Instructions and communications which had passed between the three Secretaries of State, and any of the ministers in Spain or Portugal, respecting the arrangement of Military measures, and every provision for carrying them into effect, be laid before the house."The Earl of Rosslyn
amor nummi,807 said, if reference were had to the papers already laid on the table, he thought they were voluminous enough, so voluminous that their lordships would not have patience to peruse the whole of them. But although his majesty's ministers had with great readiness
amor nummi,807The Earl of Liverpool
809808 rose, for the purpose of supporting the motion of his noble friend. The noble Secretary had justly represented be papers on their lordships' table to be
809808Earl Grey
806 acquiesced in the propriety which ought to be attended to in not producing letters and papers which might be of a private nature only. But with respect to the letter of sir John Moore, it must be allowed it was not altogether private, but
806Earl Grey
2726 wished to put a few questions to the noble Secretary of State, to which, however, he did not expect or require an immediate answer. His object in putting these questions was to disentangle, as much as possible, and clear the ground for the main discussion respecting the conduct of the late Campaign in Spain and Portugal, and to endeavour to fix the leading points upon which that discussion might be expected to turn. That discussion would naturally involve not only the conduct of the war in those countries, but also the nature and tendency of the Treaty lately negociated between this country and Spain. And first, he would beg leave to ask in what sense were to be understood the terms "lawful successor," in the Article by which this country was bound not to make peace until Ferdinand 7th was restored, or his lawful successor and heirs. If it was intended not to make peace until Ferdinand 7th was restored, or until the crown of Spain was again placed on the head of the lawful successor of Ferdinand, a Bourbon, such an Article of a Treaty might expose the country to difficulties
2726Lord Auckland
28 acknowledged the noble lord had acted with perfect propriety, in not pressing for an immediate answer to many of the questions he had put. Indeed, most of them were rather matter of argument for future discussion than of immediate explanation; and he should therefore defer touching upon them, until that discussion came regularly before the house. With regard to Mr. Frere's Letters, and the Message alluded to by the noble lord, they had never come in an official shape into the hands of his majesty's ministers; and he therefore did not imagine they could be regularly produced or argued upon. Even in the department to which such a correspondence more regularly belonged, he did not believe that much was known of the nature of the message upon which the noble lord had laid
28The Earl of Liverpool
 made some further observations on the dates of some of the articles of the Treaty with Spain, such as the date of the last article, which purported to be of the 21st of March last. It was impossible that this article, at least, could have been ratified. It would therefore follow, that what was before the house as a Treaty, could not as vet be regularly considered as such.Lord Auckland
 seemed to admit the force of the observation, but deferred any explanation respecting it to a future occasion.The Earl of Liverpool
 could not help considering the observations and the questions of the noble earl as an attack upon the prerogative of the crown, and as a refutation of all notion of the responsibility of ministers. The king had the command of the army, and to say, that for certain services, he should not propose certain officers recommended to him for such services by his confidential advisers, would be to take the command of the army out of his hands, and thus infringe on the prerogative of the crown. Ministers, besides, were responsible for the advice they gave his majesty on such occasions; but there would be an end to that responsibility, were they to be questioned upon the reasons why, on any particular occasion, they preferred one officer to another. He never should silently suffer such questions to be put, at least he should never answer them. With regard to sir J. Craddock, he, for one, had the highest opinion of his military character, and he believed the rest of his majesty's ministers entertained the same opinion of his services and merits; and he was happy to have this occasion of bearing the fullest testimony to the deserts of that gallant officer.The Earl of Liverpool
 was glad to hear the honourable testimony paid to the merits of gen. Craddock by the noble secretary of state; for the character of that gallant general must be peculiarly dear to his feelings.The Earl of Limerick
 observed, that he protested against such questions being addressed to ministers, lest it should be drawn into a precedent, and that upon occasions When it might not be in the power of ministers to speak of the commander then alluded to, as he was now able to speak of the character and conduct of sir J. Craddock.The Earl of Liverpool
 then observed, that in order to meet the wishes of some noble lords to whom it was inconvenient to attend on Tuesday next, he would, with the permission of the house, defer his motion respecting the late Campaign in Spain till this day se'n-night, on which day he was determined to bring it forward.Earl Grey
29 could not consider the points touched upon by his noble friend, as mere matter of argument, but as questions which called for a full and explicit explanation. Could any thing be more important and urgent to ascertain, than what was the real meaning of the most important article of the recent Treaty with Spain? That article bound this country to make no peace with France until Ferdinand VII, or his lawful successor, was restored to the throne of Spain. Why, in the first place, Ferdinand the VII.? What was his right to the throne in preference to Charles IV.? Or what authentic information was the house in possession of respecting that right? Charles IV. was said to have abdicated in favour of his son; but did we know that that abdication was a voluntary one? Besides, if the Spanish nation had thought proper to make choice of Ferdinand in place of his father, were we to acknowledge and sanction the propriety of that choice? It was true, Ferdinand would, in the course of things, have succeeded his father as the lawful successor; but upon what ground did we sanction his actual possession of the supreme power while his father lived? In this respect, the house were in possession of no accurate and official information, and therefore, the thus binding the country to persist in a war for his restoration, or that of his lawful successor, he held to be matter of the most serious consideration. Ministers had, however, in various documents described Ferdinand as prince of the Asturias; upon what ground was it that they now considered him as the only legitimate sovereign of Spain, in whose cause we were to co-operate with the Supreme Junta of Spain?
29Earl Grey
"Tantum infelicem nimium dilexit amicum."3130 rose, to bring under the consideration of their lordships the unpleasant situation in which sir John Craddock was now placed. Sir A. Wellesley had just been appointed to take the command of the British forces in Portugal, and that at a moment the most critical for the feelings and fame of the officer who now commanded them. Of the military talents of sir A. Wellesley, it was impossible for any man to entertain a higher opinion than he did. Neither could any man feel more admiration and esteem than he did for that gallant and distinguished officer. He still, however, could not suppress his feelings with regard to
"Tantum infelicem nimium dilexit amicum."3130The Earl of Buckinghamshire
, in explanation, said that he had no intention of putting improper questions to the noble secretary; his only wish was, to draw from him the acknowledgment the noble secretary had just made of the merits and good conduct of sir J. Craddock in Portugal.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 laid on the table the two letters from admiral Apodaça to Mr. Secretary Canning, which he moved for yesterday, and which were ordered to be printed. His lordship took the opportunity of observing with respect to some correspondence between the Junta of Gallicia and capt. Kennedy, which was stated by earl Grey, on the preceding day, to be wanting, that the letters alluded to were not in the possession of government, but as capt. Kennedy was in town, he would endeavour to procure some explanation from him.The Earl of Liverpool
 said a few words with respect to the Letters of Mr. Frere to sir John Moore, which had formerly been represented by the noble secretary of state as unimportant, but which on their production were found to be of great importance; and he could not accord with the denomination attached to them by noble lords opposite, of their being letters of a private nature. They had certainly exhibited very extraordinary conduct in our minister at Madrid, who had written in so very peculiar terms to sir John Moore, whereby that illustrious general was involuntarily induced to march further than Salamanca, and, unfortunately for his country, afterwards lost his life. He felt it certainly an invidious task to impute improper conduct to any individual, but such had been that of Mr. Frere, he thought the house would be wanting in their duty, if they did not speedily move an Address to his majesty for the immediate recal of that minister; it was a duty they owed to the memory of the illustrious and gallant officer sir J. Moore. He conceived it incumbent to bring this particular subject very soon under the consideration of the house. With regard to these Letters also, their importance was such as to remove every blame contrived to be attached to the conduct of that lamented commander, and clearly to shew it was to be imputed wholly to another quarter.Earl Darnley
70 said, he wished to be clearly understood with respect to what he had stated on a former occasion. It would be in their lordships recollection, that he had not asserted the Letters referred to were of no importance, he merely stated, they would be found not material; with respect to sir John Moore's
70The Earl of Liverpool
71 could assure the
71The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that it was known who the person alluded to was. He should abstain from mentioning his name, but it might be very material, under all the circumstances, to know who he was, whether a person sent from this country and attached to Mr. Frere's suite, or a person employed there; and whether he were a native of that country or a French officer.Lord Auckland
 supposed that all sent had been received.The Earl of Liverpool
 answered in the negative.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the treaty not having been accompanied by a message from his majesty, it was not the usage for his majesty's ministers to make any motion upon it, nor did they intend it, but it was open to any noble lord to bring forward any proposition on the subject.The Earl of Liverpool
 did not believe the noble earl would be successful in the first part of his motion, after he himself had said so much relative to the instructions sent to Mr. Frere. After all the papers which had been laid on the table, there was so much information kept back, that he declared it was not possible for the house to arrive at a correct judgment on the whole of the proceedings. There could be no inconvenience resulting from mentioning this person's name, for it was already known it was no secret; yet it was said, because a case might be inconvenient to name a particular person, the information was refused; such language was unbecoming a secretary of state.Earl Grey
 was surprised how any one could peruse the letters referred to, and the answers of sir John Moore, and maintain that he had not been driven against his own inclination to march further than Salamanca. If he recollected correctly what had been stated by the noble secretary, respecting the letters being of a private nature, he certainly understood him to have expressed himself differently at the time. He was sorry noble lords on that side of the house had been led to suppose the objection to their being produced, rested upon their contents being of a private nature. There could now, however, be no doubt the fatal event of the campaign in Spain, was in consequence of the interference of Mr. Frere with the conduct of sir John Moore.Earl Grey
 observed, that the house had been called upon on the first day of the session, to express their satisfaction, that such a Treaty had been concluded, and now it appeared they were not to have the opportunity of discussing its provisions.Viscount Sidmouth
 wished to know if it was the intention of ministers to make any motion respecting the Spanish Treaty?Viscount Sidmouth
, after having adverted to the papers on the table, mentioned his having been absent for want of health; and therefore he did not distinctly know whether any motion had been made, similar to the one he intended to propose. He now gave notice he should to-morrow move for a copy of all Instructions sent from his majesty's government to Mr. Frere; for it was of great importance to ascertain the powers possessed by Mr. Frere, which authorised him to controul the conduct of a commander. It was also mentioned that a particular person was the bearer of a message to Salamanca, yet his name was kept secret, and was omitted, by a blank in the printed papers. He could not conceive why this person should not be named; but he would to-morrow move, unless he was previously informed, that it should be disclosed to the house.The Earl of Carysfort
 said a few words respecting the insufficiency of the Return relative to the Arms furnished to Portugal, it not stating what quantity of those sent had been received.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
164163162161160159158157156155154153entrepot152151 rose in reply. His lordship began by agreeing with the noble earl, that the feeling of fair confidence in the executive department of the state which had been expressed by almost every man in the country, when the first
164163162161160159158157156155154153entrepot152151The Earl of Liverpool
167166165 supported the motion of the noble mover. He condemned the king's ministers as well for what they did, as for what they did not do. Let the house but remember the situation of Spain, and of the French armies in that country at the period of the simultaneous rising of its people. That occurrence was unexpected by the French government, and his majesty's ministers here were in full possession of the plan of operations which the French armies in Spain had adopted on that event. Nay, the precautions of the enemy apprised them of the very course of operations which was necessary to defeat those very precautions. The position which the enemy took invited Great Britain to the very theatre to which it should have directed the progress of its armies. That position plainly proved that it was the object of France to consolidate its force on
167166165Earl Moira
 thought the noble lord who brought forward the motion and those who had followed him, had been pretty liberal in their censures on government. According to them, ministers were wholly unfit to hold their places; he did not doubt but they knew of persons who, in their opinion, might be substituted with great advantage. He thought at that late hour it was unnecessary for him to consider what precise line of conduct England ought to have pursued; but this he would say, that honour, justice, and, above all, policy, called upon her to support the Spanish cause by every means in her power. The noble lord opposite, he said, shaped his conduct like most prophets, in order to fulfil his ends. Was it, he would ask of the noble lord, a measure of disgrace to free ourselves from a troublesome and dangerous blockade, and to restore to the people of Portugal the possession of their native land? Upon the whole, he received the noble lord's animadversions on this head as a compliment which merited his thanks. He would beg leave, however, to say, that the brilliant expedition to Alexandria or Constantinople, was never considered by the noble lords opposite as matter of disgrace. In fact, they gave themselves always that liberal latitude which they withheld from others. The noble earl concluded by giving his negative to the motion.The Earl of Westmoreland
 spoke a few words in favour of the motion.Earl Grosvenor
150149148147146145"Nos facimus, Fortuna, Deam, cœloque lo-" camus.""Nullum numen abest si sit Prudentia, sed te144143142141140139138137136135134133132131130129128127126125124123122 rose and addressed their lordships as follows:—My Lords; In undertaking to bring under the consideration of your lordships, the various military ope-
150149148147146145"Nos facimus, Fortuna, Deam, cœloque lo-" camus.""Nullum numen abest si sit Prudentia, sed te144143142141140139138137136135134133132131130129128127126125124123122Earl Grey
168 said, that whatever differences of opinion there might be as to the merits, there could be none as to the importance, of the motion under consideration; it was connected with the best interests of the Country. He did not hesitate to pronounce, not only, that the preponderance of argument was in favour of the noble earl who brought forward the motion, but there was no answer whatsoever given to the points he had urged. He would not go into the detail of this subject at that hour. He never heard of an intention to employ the British forces on the continent without entertaining much apprehension; he would not say that there could be no occasion to justify it; but the experience of the last 15 years had taught him a lesson of caution. If an army was to be sent into the interior of Spain,, it should not have been sent until necessary provisions were made to secure its retreat in case of disaster; it was necessary that there should be a supreme executive authority in the country; it was necessary that there should be a commander in chief, and though he thought it perfectly right in his majesty's ministers not to stipulate for any advantage as the price of succour, it was yet necessary to stipulate for such protections as might be wanting to their more complete security. If it had been known that Dupont was defeated, it would have been right to send troops to Portugal. Sir A. Wellesley should not have quitted the country without an adequate force. The object of the expedition to Portugal was stated to be the expulsion of the French; but the armistice in which it concluded formed a just ground of complaint; never was there
168Viscount Sidmouth
169 said, that the opinions given by noble lords, upon the proper mode of conducting the operations in Spain and Portugal, were so various, that had they been in power, they must have found a difficulty in laying down a plan of operations. One noble lord approved of the troops going to Portugal; another would have had them at the Pyrenees; while another recommended the co-operation of flying squadrons. A noble lord would have had them placed, between the Pyrenees and the French army! But he was at a loss to know, how they were to maintain themselves against the force of Buonaparté? O! they were to form a chain of 20,000 men across the Pyrenees, and completely shut them up. This reminded him of a story of a Chemist who had discovered the means to destroy Rattle-snakes, but it unfortunately happened, that the first article to make his recipe was a Rattle-snake, and the difficulty was how to procure one for the purpose; so with the Pyrenees, it was no doubt desirable to shut them up, but the difficulty was in doing it.—They must first be taken possession of, before the French could be prevented from passing through. The Spaniards desired artillery, arms-
169Lord Mulgrave
"And fill'd with England's glory, smil'd in death!""In joys of conquest, lie resign'd his breath,171170 rose, and said, God forbid that he should wish to pass censure on any set of men, if they had not justly deserved it! If his majesty's ministers plans had been overpowered by any unforseen circumstances, he would have come forward as their advocate; but they acted without system, and ran head foremost into every thing that was wrong; by which means every thing they undertook was defeated, and at the end they would be lost themselves; that loss would be but trifling, compared with the lives of 35,000 men
"And fill'd with England's glory, smil'd in death!""In joys of conquest, lie resign'd his breath,171170Lord Erskine
172 in a very eloquent and able speech, animadverted upon the impropriety of the noble lord who had preceded, having made use of sarcasms upon such a serious occasion. He then entered into a critical examination of the two expeditions to Portugal and Spain, and enlarged considerably upon the inconsiderateness of ministers sending out troops so badly equipped and so ill provided with cavalry. He also threw out many reflections upon ministers for having allowed Mr. Frere to interfere with the military operations of sir J. Moore, owing to whose superior judgment our army had been prevented from
172Lord Grenville,
 wished to know from the noble Secretary of State, whether it was the intention of ministers to recal Mr. Frere. He had heard that there was such an intention, and if so he should be satisfied; but if not, he considered the conduct of Mr. Frere to have been so improper towards sir John Moore, that he should feel it his duty to call the attention of their lordships to the subject. He could not, however, at present name any day, nor could he state the precise terms of his motion.Earl Darnley
 said, he was ready to vouch for the zeal and ability of Mr. Frere, and was convinced his intentions were good, but he had said on a former occasion, and was now of opinion, as were also his colleagues, that Mr. Frere had, so far as related to the circumstance mentioned respecting sir John Moore, adopted an improper mode of carrying his intentions into effect. Whilst upon his legs, he wished to set himself right with respect to a misrepresentation that had gone abroad, of what he had said on Friday respecting the amount of British cavalry in Portugal, on the 22d of August, during the negociation of the Armistice. He was stated to have said, that the number of our cavalry on that day in Portugal exceeded that of the French, whereas what he meant to state was, that it was known to sir Harry Burrard, that a considerable reinforcement of cavalry was on its passage. It had in point of fact arrived at that time in Mondego Bay, but that could not be known at the period of the negociation, the knowledge, however, of its being on its way thither ought to have had great influence in the negociation.The Earl of Liverpool
174 called the attention
174The Earl of Suffolk
 stated, that a misrepresentation had gone abroad of what he had said respecting general Anstruther, who, he was stated to have said, had died for want of nourishment. On the contrary, that officer experienced every possible attention from his staff, and from those around him. Whilst Upon this subject, however, he wished to throw out for their lordships' consideration the propriety of relaxing a little the strictness of their orders, as the best way of preventing misrepresentation.Earl Grosvenor
 moved for an Address to his majesty, praying for some Papers relative to the Mission of Mr. Rose to America. These Papers were necessary to the discussion of his motion, and he thought there could be no objection to their production, as they had been already laid before the other house.The Earl of Selkirk
258 protested against the principle, that because papers had been laid before the other house of parliament, that therefore they were to be produced in their lordships' house. He contended that there ought to be some intelligible rule on the subject. For instance, in order to elucidate any Bill on the table, or with a view to a discussion of any subject, the discussion of which had been previously acceded to by ministers, papers were readily granted. In this case, however, he was wholly inimical to the introduction of the discussion proposed by the noble earl in his intended motion; protesting, as he did, against any attempt to take the negociation with America out of the hands of his majesty's ministers.
258The Earl of Liverpool
 urged the propriety of granting the papers, the mission of Mr. Rose having terminated, and because he had reason to believe that ministers were on that occasion disposed to sacrifice the most important rights of the country. If so, would it not be fitting to address his majesty, praying him to maintain those rights, and in that case, would it not be proper to have before the house information upon the subject?The Earl of Selkirk
 expressed his astonishment at what had fallen from his noble friend, and contended that there were other cases besides those mentioned by his noble friend, in which, in conformity with the practice of the house, papers had been granted, and particularly for the purposes of inquiry and investigation. He thought in the present case, a mission having been sent to America which had failed, that there was no ground for refusing the papers asked for, with the view of explaining the circumstances attending that mission.Viscount Sidmouth
289 restated the opinion he had declared on a former evening, as to the principle which was to guide the house in calling for papers. The granting or papers in one house, was not a conclusive argument in favour of their being produced in another. He agreed fully with the noble earl, as to the capacity of the Portuguese peasant to become an excellent soldier. He was convinced of his bravery, and of the bravery of the people of every country. They only required discipline, and to be well led on to make brave soldiers. With respect to the main question, that of the formation of the Regency, there were two modes to be adopted after the French had been compelled to evacuate Portugal; either to retain a military occupancy of the country, or to reinstate the former provincial government as nearly as could be, under all the circumstances of the case. The first could not have been resorted to on account of the jealousies it was calculated to create. The latter was actually done, because it was that kind of arrangement which was presumed to be most agreeable to the government at Rio Janeiro. In the manner of forming the Regency, every attention was paid to the
289The Earl of Liverpool
 supported the motion nearly on the same grounds as lord Buckinghamshire. He insisted that the disunion and discontent produced among the Portuguese by the complexion of the Regency had materially impeded our operations, and injured the cause of Spain as well as of Portugal. For the success of both, however, he was still disposed to hope, and his hopes were considerably strengthened by the appointment that had just taken place, of a noble marquis (Wellesley) to the embassy of Spain, for which situation, indeed for any, the highest situation, he was in every respect so eminently qualified.Lord Sidmouth
 could not see the propriety of entering into this discussion at present. He thought the most expeditious mode of proceeding was that adopted by sir H. Dalrymple. It might perhaps, be thought better to summon a Cortes; but that would have been a work of time, and the circumstances of the moment required urgency. He never could have approved the conduct that seemed to be advised, that of our taking military possession of Portugal; it was our duty to re-establish a civil government under the most legitimate form.Lord Harrowby
288287286285284283282281(engourdissment)pieds ensanglantes."gaiment280279 said, that it was with reluctance he had given their lordships the trouble of an attendance on account of the motion he intended upon that occasion to submit to the house, but in truth, he considered the subject of Portugal so important, not only with reference to the arduous contest in which the people of the peninsula were engaged against the French, but to the essential and permanent interest of Great Britain, that he should neglect what he deemed an act of indispensable duty, were he not to bring the question, of which he had given notice, under their lordships' consideration.—He thought it necessary, as a preliminary observation, to declare his perfect acquiescence in the sentiments of a noble friend of his (lord Sidmouth), respecting the doctrines laid down upon a former occasion by the Secretary of State (lord Liverpool) with regard to the production of papers, and the right of the house to interfere in matters of pending negotiation. To the principles advanced by the Secretary of State, he never could agree in the extent to which he was disposed to carry them, inasmuch as they seemed to him calculated to circumscribe and limit the most important duties of parliament.—Upon the present occasion it was not necessary that
288287286285284283282281(engourdissment)pieds ensanglantes."gaiment280279 The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 replied, and after some observations from lords Horrowby, Sidmouth, and Liverpool, the question was put, and the motion was negatived without a division.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 said, as there seemed to be an indisposition to lay the papers moved for before the house, he should not trouble their lordships long on a subject, respecting which he had not the necessary information. He supported the objections of the two noble noble lords on the cross bench, (Buckinghamshire and Sidmouth,) and maintained that it was the duty of his majesty's ministers to establish a form of government more agreeable to the wishes of the people, than a Regency in which they had no confidence, but which, on the contrary, was universally suspected and distrusted.Lord Grenville
"That purity, whose loss is loss of all.""To teach the unblemish'd to preserve with care329328l"Non eadem est ætas, non mens."327 said, that the question which he rose to bring forward related entirely to the discouragement of seductive adultery; a vice, which carries a sense of disgrace and distress into the families both of the seducer and of the victim of seduction; depriving the innocent children of the affections and protection of their parents; and exhibiting in the higher classes a depravity which lowers them in the public estimation, and at the same time tends to corrupt the minds and morals of the interior orders of society.—It had long been matter of regret to many, that a vice of such malignity and mischief is not yet considered by our laws as a crime. We provide rigorously and industriously for the punishment of a long list of trivial offences against the persons and properties of individuals: but we totally overlook the assassins of domestic happiness. Adultery is subject only to the feeble coercion of the spiritual courts; in other words, it is left to its full range unrestrained and unheeded. The adulterer, indeed, may be compelled by a civil action to pay a pecuniary compensation, which in many cases the injured husband is ashamed to receive, and which in no case has the effect that a solitary impri-
"That purity, whose loss is loss of all.""To teach the unblemish'd to preserve with care329328l"Non eadem est ætas, non mens."327Lord Auckland
 expressed himself as having no inclination to oppose the motion of the noble lord, but was rather disposed to have gone still further in any measure, which might tend to the prevention of so many breaches of the conjugal vow. At the same time he could not refrain from noticing that one injurious consequence would result from that proposition becoming a standing order. It would eventually happen that cases would arise when it might be absolutely necessary or desirable that the order should be dispensed with. This would produce a very unpleasant inference, that favour was shewn in particular cases. He would rather have wished, that some general law could have been adopted, from which it would in no instance be necessary to deviate.The Earl of Radnor
332331, after some
332331The Archbishop, of Canterbury
335 with great good
335The Lord Chancellor
 supported the bill, and lord Darnley entertained a different opinion. His lordship disapproved of the practice of the courts, so much recommended by a late noble and learned judge, of giving heavy damages in cases, where, to any honourable mind, money could be no compensation.The Earl of Liverpool
à vinculo matrimonii,à mensa et thoro,à vinculo matrimonii argued in favour of the motion on various grounds, but rejected the opinion that the offence was much increased of later years. As to the expences of a suit, that must depend upon the circumstances of the particular case. His lordship reviewed and explained the law as it stood, respecting divorces. The intermarriage of the parties could not have been in contemplation when divorces à vinculo matrimonii,à mensa et thoro,à vinculo matrimoniiThe Lord Chancellor
l. rose, he said, not to teach divinity to my lords the bishops, but chiefly to oppose the Lord Chancellor's law. He declared that he would lay his lordship flat upon his back, and make him unsay what he had said about the intermarriages of the criminal parties, before he had done with him. His lordship had questioned the validity of those marriages. Why, then, were all the children bastards, and to lose their estates? As for the people at Doctors'-Commons, they were the absurdest fellows in the world. What did they mean by a bond not to do that which they had no right to do? As to pecuniary penalties, if the lawyers did not like to learn some law from him, he should give them a little from Mr. Dunning, who was a very good lawyer. He was once speaking to Mr. Dunning about pecuniary penalties for offences, and Mr. Dunning gave him a sort of definition of a pecuniary penalty. He told him that a pecuniary penalty was only the payment of a sum for doing that which was illegal. A man paid the penalty (say 20,000l.Earl Stanhope
l. entertained the same sentiments on this subject as he had before expressed. His lordship could not perceive how the great cause of morality could be effectually promoted by such a measure. The sum of 4,000l.Lord Mulgrave
333 supported the motion. He highly complimented the right reverend prelate for the sentiments he had uttered, and dwelt with much eloquence on the institution of marriage, the vast influence it had on society, and the innumerable and inestimable duties and benefits that flowed from it in all our relations, hopes, and prospects. It was most extraordinary that the legislature could permit the foundadation of such a connection to exist in the commission of a crime that struck at its very root, and should enable those to enter into all its advantages, who had treated it with contempt and scorn by the non-observance and violation of all the duties it imposed. The adoption of the proposed standing order did not prevent their lordships from acting in particular cases as might seem to them fitting: but the difference was abundant between the rule and the exceptions. What greater misdemeanor could there be than seductive adultery? A misdemeanor was a private wrong, but a wrong that injured the peace and happiness of society; and surely nuisances and assaults were inferior in the comparison. His lordship painted the picture of a family ruined by this afflicting offence; the woman degraded and forbidden; the children neglected and despised; the husband made a mark for the finger of scorn to point at. He had voted formerly in a minority in the house of commons on this question. He had, in
333Lord Erskine
334 thought nothing more likely to corrupt the female mind than the prospect held out of an after-marriage with the seducer. Punishment he considered intended entirely for prevention: and the sort of punishment proposed he thought necessary, for the sake of wives themselves, as well as for the happiness of families. He exposed the futility of any argument drawn from an anticipated difference of opinion in the house of commons, since, if that were admitted, it would go to prove the impracticability of two distinct and independent bodies carrying on the work of legislation. He thought the expences mentioned in a suit of this kind much larger than any circumstances seemed to warrant. On the present footing, it
334Lord Grenville
350349348347346345 rose to make his promised motion relative to the Affair of the Chesapeake. He had long wished to hear the question brought forward by some person of more weight in the house; that hope had been disappointed, and circumstances did not allow the subject to be longer delayed. In a former negotiation to which this affair had led, ministers had shewn a disposition to make improper concessions. A renewal of the negotiation being probable, the interposition of the house became necessary, to prevent a sacrifice of our national honour, and with it our first national interest, the maintenance of our maritime preponderance. Nothing, he trusted, was yet irrevocably concluded, and an expression of the sense of the house might prevent the evil. Under these circumstances, it was the duty of the house to offer its advice, as the hereditary council of the crown; and the house would not abandon that privilege and that duty, notwithstanding the novel doctrine lately broached, that no subject of discussion was fit to be entertained by the house, unless ministers had given their consent to the enquiry.—It was the more necessary to bring forward this discussion, on account of the misapprehensions which prevailed as to the real state of the case. It was a matter of notoriety, that admiral Berkeley having intelligence that certain British deserters were on board the American frigate, gave orders to demand their
350349348347346345The Earl of Selkirk
351 said, he did not rise for the purpose of going at length into all the arguments of the noble earl who brought forward the present motion. He should occupy a small portion of their lordships' time, because the same reason which he had assigned for refusing the papers moved for by the noble earl, particularly applied upon the present occasion. The fact was, certain differences did exist between his majesty's government and the United States, and a negociation had been commenced for the purpose of their adjustment, which was not yet brought to its final issue. Now, the motion of the noble earl called upon that house to interpose and give advice to his majesty, pending the negociation, and they were called upon to do this, without knowing all the circumstances, or even the state in which the
351The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to explain, that he had not meant to say, it was unprecedented for parliament to interpose its advice pending a negociation, but that it was unprecedented so to interpose its advice, until the house had arrived at a knowledge of the progress and state of the negociation.The Earl of Liverpool
 continued to be of opinion, that there were instances where parliament had interposed its advice without knowing the state of the negociation.Viscount Sidmouth
352 thought it his duty to trouble the house with a few observations on the question under consideration; and in doing so, he should take up a very small portion of their time. He certainly concurred with a great part of what had been stated by the noble Secretary, but he could not accord with the proposition that it was unusual or unprecedented for that house or the other house of parliament to interpose their advice to his majesty pending a negotiation. He could adduce several instances where such had been the conduct of parliament. Instances occurred in the reigns of William and Mary, queen Anne, George L, and George II. In 1707 such an interposition had been made to queen Anne, desiring her majesty not to make peace unless the Spanish
352Viscount Sidmouth
 brought in a Bill for the more effectual Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals. The Bill was read a first time, and ordered to be printed; and his lordship gave notice that on Monday, if it were then printed, he would fix a day for the second reading.Lord Erskine
, after some, comments upon the manner of the noble baron in making his remarks, slated the reasons for the delay proposed. When he advised the nomination that took place, he was acting in the way which he thought best for the purpose. He had recommended the names of those who were judges, or else barristers of great practice in Westminster Hall. The same course he had pursued with respect to the lords and the advocates in the court of session. Now, it happened, inevitably, that these persons resided at a great distance from each other, and that they had not those facilities that ensued from meeting all together in one common place; hence their communications must be much less prompt and frequent, and as so much must take place by written correspondence, it was absolutely impossible to be so quick as some persons might wish or expect. A great deal of information was wanted on a subject where the question was of the changing a part of the ancient laws. The noble and learned lord alluded to, and who was not in the house (lord Erskine) he had known so long, that he was sure that he would not have thanked the noble baron, for the censure he had pronounced on his (the Lord Chancellor's) conduct. The noble and learned lord made some observations upon the noble baron's charge of smuggling in the bill, which his lordship denied; as also upon the want of attention to himself, of which he appeared to complain. His lordship believed that he was not likely to be accused of shewing a want of attention to any noble lord, and he could hardly have imagined the possibility of such a charge.The Lord Chancellor
nem. con.408 stated various reasons for the prolongation of the existence of the commission, and commented in strong terms upon the imputations thrown by the noble baron on some of the most respectable characters of the country. It was not fair or just to condemn the commissioners, and to assume that they had no wish to discharge their duty.nem. con.408Lord Redesdale
407406, rose, and expressed his surprize at the silent manner in which it had been introduced into the house, and passed through its stages. It was a bill of the greatest importance, and one that ought not to be smuggled through the house. The object of the bill was to extend the period already fixed by parliament for the report of the commissioners nominated to inquire into and report to that house the amendments practicable in the administration of justice in Scotland, and particularly to report upon the great question of extending the benefits of Trial, by Jury in civil as well as criminal cases
407406Lord Grenville
l.l.433l.l. rose for the purpose of moving an humble Address, expressing the thanks of that house to his majesty for the communication of his most gracious Message. There was no necessity for his taking up much of their lordships' time in shewing the propriety of granting a loan of 600,000l.l.433l.l.The Earl of Liverpool
435434l. said, he did not rise with the intention of proposing any objection in the way of this loan being granted to the Prince Regent of Portugal. A prince who on all occasions had shewn himself a true friend and faithful ally to this country, was deserving of every assistance, when dire necessity enforced him to quit his hereditary dominions, and seek refuge in another quarter of the globe. Had the loan been greater than 600,000435434l.The Duke of Norfolk
 said, that at the time of the Portuguese emigration an advance of money had been made by lord Strangford, and the convention alluded to was one which had been agreed upon in this country, between his majesty's Secretary and the ambassador of his royal highness.The Earl of Liverpool
436 observed, there would not be great occasion for his entering into a detail of the principle and provisions of the bill upon the table. The principle was the same with that of other acts of parliament which had passed for augmenting the militia. On account of the late volunteering of the militia into a more regular and disposable force, the regiments had been considerably diminished in their numbers, and it became necessary that those vacancies should be speedily supplied. In the regular course, this deficiency would have been supplied by ballot in the different counties; but as that mode in the present times might be considered rather hard upon that class, on whom the ballot would immediately fall, it had been thought advisable, by the present bill, to
436The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he so far approved of the bill, as containing a provision, that in completing the deficiencies of the militia establishment, the burthen and expence were to be removed from the counties, and laid upon the public. But he expressed considerable regret, that the principle of the militia had in modern times been so much departed from, and that the militia regiments should have been made a recruiting, or perhaps, if he might use the expression, a crimping fund for the supply of the regular army. He did not particularly direct his observations to the bill before them, but it was with regret he saw the militia more and more altered from those principles upon which that force was first established.Earl Fitzwilliam
 concurred in what had been stated by the noble earl (Fitzwilliam,) nor did he think the expression alluded to at all too severe. It correctly described the mode resorted to of recruiting the regular army out of the militia establishment of the country. Whatever consideration might be paid to the other species of force, so much supported by the sacrifice of the militia, he could wish the house to recollect, that perhaps the time was not far distant when we should stand most in need of an internal force adequate to resist the attack of an invading enemy. The disposable force of the country, so much attended to, might be employed in expeditions, when the country would at length, and that probably very soon, feel the great want of an effective and internal force for its own preservation.—Looking at the late achievements of our army abroad, he would have been as ready as any man to have praised the valour and courage displayed; but when he recollected the Convention, he felt too much as a Briton not to lament the purposes for which that army had been employed.The Marquis of Douglas
438 contended there was nothing objectionable in the provisions of modern times respecting the militia. If the old principle had been attended to, and the men had only served for three, four, or seven years, and at that period they had returned from the service, the noble lords would have found themselves without those men who had been so carefully taught their discipline. He trusted, out of that house they were more disposed to give assistance to the bill being carried into execution, and that their regiments would be the most forward; but if their language in that house were to be attended to, no such consequences could be expected. That army which had displayed its superiority on the Tagus, and which, afterwards, amidst the greatest difficulties, embarked with honour and glory, was composed of men chiefly taken from regiments of militia, and he was induced
438The Earl of Westmoreland
 said, if the noble earl had been present, he would have heard his explanation of that part of the bill. His lordship here stated the purport of what he had before expressed on the reason of providing that the men might be raised by way of enlistment for a limited time. In reply to the arguments of other noble lords, he argued, that, without any interference, after a man had learned his duty as a soldier, be would naturally be disposed to continue his services by going into a superior force.The Earl of Liverpool
439l.l.l.l.l. considered there was one objection to the present bill, which had not been mentioned in the course of the debate. It pretended to raise the men for the completion of the militia, by taking the burthen off from the counties, and laying it upon the public; this was a false pretence, for it would do no such thing. The bill provided the men might be raised by enlistment, at a bounty of twelve guineas, any time before June, 1810; and if the quota should not be raised before that period, it is then provided the ancient method of ballot should be resorted to; so that all deficiencies should be supplied before the October following. Of course it was well known there was 20439l.l.l.l.l.The Earl of Rosslyn
 observed, that the most favourable point of view in which he saw the present measure, was from what had fallen from the noble earl who had just sat down, that it was not likely to effect what it pretended to do, the completion of the militia establishment. The present establishment was, in his mind, so radically wrong, that he had no desire to witness its completion.The Earl of Selkirk
437 defended the measures which had been resorted to in regard to the militia establishment of the country. He was induced to express his sentiments upon the present occasion, because he conceived himself in justice bound to do so in opposition to the arguments urged from such a respectable authority as that of the noble earl who spoke. He considered the expression used by that noble earl as too severe and degrading; for whatever might be justly felt by those who took a pride in the discipline of their own regiments, they could have but one ultimate desire, that of forming them to be the most useful for their country. If, therefore, they rendered them fit for immediate service, and for entering a more regular and disposable force, their exertions ought to be more satisfactory to themselves, when these men volunteered into the regular army. For his own part, he had several years been a captain in the militia; and although not so high, or perhaps so interested in the service, as the noble lord opposite, he always felt a considerable par-
437Lord Harrowby
 declined entering into those topics, which, in his opinion, had been irrelevantly introduced into the discussion on the merits of the present bill. But he would call the attention of the noble secretary to the preamble of the bill, where it was said the men should be raised by the beat of the drum. He conceived this a deviation from the principle of the militia, and from the principle of all former bills. He hoped he should be excused for troubling the house with any observation, as he had not been present at the commencement of this discussion.The Earl of Hardwicke
l. had no intention of opposing the proposed Address, but he thought that on the late occasions when questions of such considerable importance had been brought under the consideration of the house, there was not sufficient elucidation given, as to the propriety of the measure. He did not concur with those sentiments expressed by the noble duke, and which breathed so much despondency as to the cause of Spain and Portugal; he trusted he could perceive grounds for entertaining better hopes. The noble Secretary had mentioned the former grant of 80,000l.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 approved of the principle of the bill, but thought the application of it attended with some difficulty. That, however, was a matter of consideration for a Committee, and in that stage of the proceeding he would give the measure every possible attention.The Lord Chancellor
571570569568567566565564563ennui562561560559558557Else they are all—the meanest things that are:Are paramount, and must extinguish theirs.Or safety, interfere, his rights and claimsThe sum is this. If man's convenience, health,556555554 rose and said:—My Lords; I am now to propose to the humane consideration of the house, a subject which has long occupied my attention, and which I own to your lordships is very near my heart. It would be a painful and disgusting detail, if I were to endeavour to bring before you the almost innumerable instances of cruelty to animals, which are daily occurring in this country, and which, unfortunately, only gather strength by any efforts of humanity in individuals to repress them, without the aid of the law.—These unmanly and disgust-
571570569568567566565564563ennui562561560559558557Else they are all—the meanest things that are:Are paramount, and must extinguish theirs.Or safety, interfere, his rights and claimsThe sum is this. If man's convenience, health,556555554Lord Erskine
595594593592591590589588**587l.586585584l.l., addressed their lordships as follows: "My lords, in this case, I have the honour to appear before you on the part of the Plaintiffs in Error. The question now under your lordships' consideration is of so much importance as necessarily to command attention. I should, therefore, hold it a waste of your lordships' time, if I made any prefatory remarks upon it. My lords, this is a Writ of Error against a Judgment given in his majesty's court of King's Bench, in a case originating in an information filed by the Attorney General against the Plaintiffs in Error, John Harriott Hart, and Henry White. The venue of the information was laid in the city of London, where the Trial also took place. The Plaintiff's were afterwards brought to the Bar of the court of King's Bench, where Judgment was passed upon them, the one to be imprisoned in the county gaol of Dorset, and the other in the county gaol of Gloucester, for 18 calendar months, after the expiration of which, each party to be farther imprisoned for the like term; and, at the end of this imprisonment, each of the Plaintiffs in Error to give security for their good behaviour for five years, themselves in the sum of 500595594593592591590589588**587l.586585584l.l.,Mr. Clifford
597596. I now come to trouble your lordships, and to assure you that the Judgment, in support of which I appear, does not deserve the hard names bestowed upon it, such as were never before used in a court of justice—of cruel, oppressive, and unusual. In good truth, my lords, I believe there could be no reason for bestowing these epithets upon the Judgment, except the knowledge that it was impossible for your lordships to enter into the considerations upon which the court pronounced that Judgment, and measured the punishment it should inflict, because the learned gent, is wise enough to know, that it was hot merely from the face of the Record, but from the consideration of extrinsic circumstances, the court measured the Judgment it thought proper to pronounce. That imprisonment is a species of punishment for libellers, and to require security for their good behaviour after their imprisonment, is a very usual practice, must be so well known to the learned gent., that I shall not condescend to shew either a principle or a case for the purpose of supporting that doctrine! In a great deal of what has fallen from the learned gent., I shall not follow him, because a great part of his statements carry with them their own refutation. But in answer to such of his arguments as have any shadow of bearing upon the question before your lordships, I contend that the court of King's Bench has unlimited juris-
597596Mr. Attorney-General
ab ovo.601generalis,capitanusJusticiarum Angliæ.600599 (Sir Thomas Plomer), spoke for about two hours in defence of the right of the court of King's Bench to pronounce such a sentence as it had done in the case of White and Hart, the editor and printer of the weekly newspaper called the "Independent Whig," who had been convicted of a libel on that court in the administration of justice. He contended that there was no foundation for the theory laid down by the learned gentleman (Mr. Clifford) on the other side, on Tuesday last, when he attempted to maintain that the court of King's Bench had no right to execute its sentence except in a gaol of the county wherein the offence was committed, a gaol in a county where the court actually sat, or their own peculiar gaol. He reviewed the historical part of that learned gentleman's speech, and examined his arguments as drawn from the instances of distant imprisonment in virtue of sentences passed by the court of Star Chamber. He controverted the statement that the court of Star Chamber owed its abolition in any principal degree to such punishments. The punishment which gave offence to parliament of this nature, was not one that sentenced to distant prisons (as they were called) in England, but, in the cases of Prynne, Bastwick, and others, who were sent to the islands of Jersey, Guernsey, and Scilly. It was not correct in historical fact, to say, that the abolition of the jurisdiction of that court was owing
ab ovo.601generalis,capitanusJusticiarum Angliæ.600599The Solicitor General
605604mob.603en dernier ressort. began his reply by animadverting on the conduct of the Attorney and Solicitor General, in the bad motives they had presumed, so liberally but so unjustly, to impute to those who had advised, or were concerned in bringing before their lordships the present appeal. He solemnly denied that it was done with any intention to depreciate the character of the judges of the court of King's Bench, at which bar he himself practised, and where the present judges, he was sure, if they had done any thing in the exercise of their judicial functions which was founded on a mistake, would be quite as willing to rectify that mistake, on being shewn the error, as any that had preceded them on that bench. He was confident that so far from this measure being considered as bearing the character attributed to it, it must be seen as one which gave the best and fairest opportunity for bringing this great question to an issue, by appealing to their lordships 605604mob.603en dernier ressort.Mr. Clifford
 observed that the crime, as it appeared on the face of the matter on which those two prisoners were convicted, was one of the most dangerous description. He referred to several instances of punishments early after the Revolution, for libels, and shewed that punishments in such cases of latter times were, comparatively speaking, far from being severe. His lordship, after some farther observation, amended the question to the following effect: "That it be referred to the judges to know their opinion Whether the court of King's Bench, in the case of the conviction of a person at Westminster, could legally send such person to any prison in England, other than the prison belonging to the court, the county prison where the offence was committed, or that where the court held its sittings? And also to know whether sureties for a reasonable time, for the good behaviour of such person, could be legally required?"The Lord Chancellor
606 said, that having been unfortunately and unavoidably absent, and consequently not having heard the counsel who stated the case of the plaintiffs to the house, nor the answer of the Attorney-General, he should not give a vote on the present occasion; but still there was a certain principle to which the house should conform, and it should proceed with the utmost regularity and deliberation to the decision of the point at issue before them, and particularly as to the severity of the punishment. He had always understood that it was a fundamental principle of the law of England that the parties were precisely on a level, that the scales of justice should be kept even, and that no improper questioning or application of motives should be tolerated in the counsel on either side.—The learned counsel for the prosecution had not charged the counsel for the crown with any improper motives; but on the other hand he must say, that the counsel for the crown, one of whom he personally and highly respected, as a most diligent and able man in his profession, (Mr. Solicitor General,) had no right, at the bar of the house of lords, to impute improper motives to a counsel who came to perform his professional duty. The present was not a charge of cruelty, it was a charge of error! and, according to an act of parliament passed in the first year of William and Mary, the Bill of Rights—it was, at least, an erroneous judgment. The 10th article of that important statute says, that excessive bail shall not be required; nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted! And would the Solicitor General say, that a thing done contrary to the prescriptions of this statute was not error, at the least. He did not mean to argue or to give an opinion upon the particular case before the house, but he thought before it decided it should have been better informed as to the precedents referred to in support of the arguments advanced at the bar, and that
606Earl Stanhope
 could not act so unmanly a part as to avoid giving his opinion. He considered the appeal by writ of error as a grand proof of the excellence of our constitution, which in so many ways provided checks upon the constituted authorities of the land. The case of libel law had been brought as near perfection, as was perhaps, possible: though, in earlier life, he did not think that the practice of the courts was right and legal in some points, yet he lived to see it remedied. He could not pretend to enter into the merits of the particular case of punishment, as that was not before him, though he must say that it was a strange thing to be forward in condemning an acquitting jury. He had not been so long in the profession as the venerable judge who had just delivered the opinion of the Bench; but he had never entertained a doubt of the power of the court of King's Bench upon this point. Had he even done so, he should most certainly have availed himself of many opportunities in his professional practice, for the sake of those clients who had put themselves under his protection, to bring the question to a solemn discussion.Lord Erskine
 presented a Message from his majesty relative to the proposed subsidies to Austria, Spain, and Portugal [for which see the proceedings of the House of Commons], and moved that it be taken into consideration tomorrow, and that the lords be summoned.The Earl of Liverpool
 asked, if he was then to consider the arrangement made by his majesty's minister in America as wholly unauthorized?Lord Sidmouth
 rose to explain to the noble lord that there was no mention in the Message of his majesty that the Treaty with Austria was a treaty of subsidy. In fact, it was not so. There was no such thing in the treaty. The Message also stated, that when the ratifications were exchanged, then the treaty would be laid before their lordships. Previous to that period, it could not be done. All that government meant to propose to parliament, in consequence of what had been said in the Message respecting pecuniary aid, was merely to ask a Vote of Credit, which was common before the session of parliament closed, to enable government to act as new circumstances might render it necessary before it re-assembled. The whole extent of the sum intended to be asked was three millions; a sum which, all things considered, his lordship thought could not be regarded as extraordinary. Under the present circumstances of Europe, he thought that if ever government might require confidence, it was when they asked for such a vote of credit.The Earl of Liverpool
nem. dis.693, though he would not oppose the vote of credit, could not
nem. dis.693The Earl of Suffolk
 wished to be informed whether it was intended to make any communication to parliament respecting the state of our relations with America?Lord Sidmouth
 proceeded, and stated, that if he could get no answer, he should, on a future day, move for a copy of the orders of the commander in chief, as well as for the particulars of the promotion of lord Burghersh, as he was sure that such proceeding must be highly injurious to the feelings of the officers of the army in general.Lord Suffolk
694 agreed that the disavowal of this arrangement must necessarily increase the difficulties in the negociation with America; but that could not be imputed to ministers, as in making that arrangement, Mr. Erskine had not only acted unauthorised by his instruc-
694The Earl of Liverpool
 rose to notice an affair of recent occurrence, particularly as he saw a noble lord present (the earl of Westmoreland), who, he supposed, could give him satisfactory information on the subject, which related to the interests of the military profession, to which he himself had the honour to belong. He alluded to the case of the promotion of lord Burghersh, contrary to the Regulations of the Commander in Chief of the army. He could not help thinking that the duke of York would not have permitted such a promotion. He had before stated, that the army was in many respects under obligations to his royal highness, and particularly for this regulation. His lordship was proceeding to make some observations on the impropriety of a person's being in the situation of Commander in Chief, who was controulable always by ministers, when he was called to order. His lordship making a few more remarks, the earl of Liverpool rose to order, and observed that no motion was before the house.The Earl of Suffolk
 thought from the expression used by the noble earl, that some instructions had been given to Mr. Erskine to make certain concessions, which the latter might have misunderstood. From the arrangements as published in the newspapers, it seemed as if the measures adopted had been preconcerted, for every thing followed in such order and rule, that it was almost impossible to believe but what Mr. Erskine, of whose ability he had the highest opinion, conceived that he was acting strictly according to his instructions. It must be evident, that by the disavowal of this arrangement, the difficulties in the further negociation with America would be materially increased, and when known in America, it might give rise to some imputations against the character and good faith of this country, under the impression that a trick had been resorted to, for the sake of obtaining a little temporary advantage for ourselves. A fearful responsibility, therefore, rested upon ministers, and investigation must take place.Earl Grey
692 rose, and made a few remarks on the subject of the Message. As he was quite unacquainted with the intentions of ministers relative to the application of the pecuniary aid, he could only offer general observations. It was impossible for him to know what were the peculiar circumstances of the case, and how far they might
692Earl Grey
 remarked, that lord Suffolk had not yet sat down.Earl Stanhope
 answered in the affirmative.Earl Bathurst
 said, the negociation being still pending, it was not intended to make any communication to parliament. The arrangement which had been entered into by his majesty's ministers, in America and the government of the United States was unauthorized, the former having made concessions without demanding any of those conditions, the compliance with which ought to have been made the basis of granting such concessions.Earl Bathurst
712 rose to move an humble Address to his majesty, thanking him for his most gracious communication to the house, and assuring him of the readiness of that house to comply with the intentions of his majesty. The noble earl took a short review of the circumstances that had occasioned his majesty's Message, and stated that the present contest into which Austria had entered with France, had arisen solely out of her own view of the state of her empire, and the dangers with which it was menaced by the oppression and ambition of the enemy. The government of this country had not by any argument or persuasion, or by the exercise of any sort of influence whatever, contributed to the determination which the emperor of Austria had been advised to make. But whatever might be the case with respect to that point, he believed that not one of their lordships could entertain the smallest doubt as to the justice of the great cause in which Austria had engaged in war with France. On that subject he believed there could be but one opinion. He therefore hoped that their lordships would be unanimous in their vote in favour of the Vote of Credit which he was about to move. A similar vote during war had been the usual practice of parliament; and it was certainly most desirable to afford every practicable facility to Austria in the existing conflict, in resistance to the overbearing tyranny and unbounded ambition of the French government. The Treaty which his majesty had concluded with the emperor of Austria could not be laid before the house till the ratifications were exchanged; but he took that opportunity to state again to the house, that that Treaty contained nothing whatever of a subsidiary nature. All that government now asked was a Vote of Credit for the sum of three millions to be placed at their disposal, and to be used by them as circumstances might render it advisable to dispose of it. This was not asked merely with a view to the affairs of Austria, but also with reference to
712The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his sentiments as to the great necessity of taking care of our own resources, for the purpose of our own protection. In point of justice there was no claim upon us from Austria, nor any further claim from Spain, though he would add, that he wished them every success in their endeavours. There was, however, a duty which we owed to ourselves. If France succeeded against Austria, which was but too probable, then he feared a similar success would be obtained by France over Spain: and we must bring our minds to a situation in which we were to go on without the continent of Europe. Indeed, even if we made peace, we should have to preserve that peace by such a defensive attitude as would continue to entail upon us vast expences; and therefore, upon a view of the whole, he thought we should, particularly after our late campaign in Spain, be careful how we expended our lives or our treasure. His grace then made some observations on the system pursued in Spain, of fighting for an unfortunate individual in captivity, and compared it with our conduct at the revolution, when we took a different course, and chose another person capable of doing something for our cause. His grace seemed to infer that the Spaniards did not act wisely in this particular.The Duke of Norfolk
713 rose in consequence of
713Lord Harrowhy
 stated his objections to the subsidizing of the continental powers. He saw no great hopes from the Austrian contest, as Buonaparte was now at Vienna, and there was even reason to suppose that the emperor Francis had solicited peace. There was no duty, he contended, on our part, which required any pecuniary assistance to Austria. He cautioned administration against an improper expenditure of money on continental connections.The Marquis of Douglas
 was happy to hear from ministers that we had taken no part in urging Austria to the present war. He was satisfied, nevertheless, that the Vote of Credit was usual, reasonable, and necessary. It was certainly desirable, whatever might be the issue of the war, that government should possess the means of assisting, to a moderate extent, the efforts of the European nations against the oppressions of France. There was nothing, he heard, of subsidy in the treaty with Austria. All that was asked was a Vote of Credit, to enable ministers to act according to the exigencies of affairs.Lord Boringdon
 was not adverse to the principle of the bill, but thought it would be advisable to limit the object of its operation. The house would do well to proceed with measured steps in a business of this nature. He should therefore advise his noble and learned friend to confine the operation of the measure, in the first instance, to beasts of draft or burthen. If afterwards it should appear that the practical effect of the bill could be obtained on a more extended scale, then would be the time to propose the extension of it.The Lord Chancellor
 perfectly coincided in opinion with his noble and learned friend, as to the propriety of confining the bill to beasts of draught or burthen; the horse, the ass, the ox, and mule, or any other animal that might be employed to the same purposes. Any attempt to make the bill apply to every species of domestic or tame animal, might in many instances become ludicrous, and defeat the main object which the bill had in contemplation.The Earl of Liverpool
 could not see the benefit to be derived from the bill. More cruelties would be committed on animals, upon the 1st of September next, than all those of which the bill professed to complain of, and correct.Earl Darnley
 could well recollect, that the measure now brought forward, was one which had engaged, to his knowledge, the attention of his noble and learned friend for these twenty years past, and which every man must allow, did infinite honour to his heart. He was anxious the bill should succeed, and he should therefore advise his noble and learned friend, to adopt the opinion of the noble and learned lord on the wool-sack, and to confine the measure, for the present, to beasts of draught or burthen. He should also beg leave to advise him, to new model his bill upon that suggestion, and in that hope to have it printed and re-committed.Lord Ellenborough
807806l. rose, and expressed the deep satisfaction lie felt at their lordships' recognition of the principle of the bill he had had the honour of submitting, by their agreeing to go into a committee upon it. He thought it unnecessary in the committee to make use of any further general arguments, in its support, though, if it were necessary, he would, from the variety of information he had received from the most respectable and the best informed quarters, give their lordships fresh reasons, and abundance of particular instances, which shewed (beyond contradiction, as he thought) the propriety, necessity, and justice of passing the bill. Was particular information wanted? He bad letters upon letters stating facts concerning such cruelties. Was evidence desired? He could bring the most unexceptionable testimony to their lordships' bar, to prove the existence of such practices as were a disgrace to humanity, to a civilized nation, and to every moral and religions profession. He had with him letters, stating the readiness of the parties to appear, from the most respectable clergymen, as well as others, not indeed saying that such cruel practices were universal, but that they were too general, and specifying many particular instances. His lordship then adverted to the inhuman and wicked practice of houghing and hamstringing cattle, of cutting the faces of sheep intended for future slaughter for the use of man, and of still more barbarous practices, such as some he could substantiate: the cutting and tearing out the tongue of so noble an animal as the horse. He stated an old act of Henry the eighth against this last crime, which inflicted a fine of that offence of 10807806l.Lord Erskine
808 observed, that the species of animals, to which the noble lord who spoke last alluded, was different in every respect from that of which he solicited protection. As he was very anxious, that to some extent at least the bill might be allowed to operate, he should cheerfully adopt the suggestions of his noble and
808Lord Erskine
l.l.l.l.l.l.831l. before moving an Address, in answer to his majesty's most gracious Message, observed, that it was intended to extend the bounty of parliament to small livings, under 150l.l.l.l.l.l.831l.The Earl of Liverpool,
832 shortly explain-
832The Earl of Liverpool
 coincided with the sentiments of the noble viscount. He was sorry the session of parliament did not commence in November, and thereby afford more time for the discussion of important business, and prevent their attendance during the hot months, and during that season of the year when many of their lordships were called upon to attend their respective duties in the country. The contrary practice, in his opinion, prevented, on the present occasion, that necessary discussion which ought to precede such an important measure as that under consideration.The Duke of Norfolk
 entered into the merits of the measure under discussion. He conceived the privileges of the house would not, in the smallest degree, be affected by the present proceeding; he shewed that the grant on Mr. Palmer's Claim would not resemble the present; the former was unprecedented, whereas the latter had been recognised by the legislature in a former act of parliament. He compared the difficulty of increasing small livings, in the reign of Queen Ann, with that of the present times; there was on this account much room to be gratified. At that time, it was calculated it would take 203 years to increase small livings to fifty pounds a year, and 510 more to increase them to one hundred. This consideration probably led to the tardiness which ensued, and started difficulties in the way of their increase, accounted insurmountable. But, in the present times, on a moderate calculation, thirty-nine or forty years would produce what it was before calculated would require 203 years, and the other period of 510 years would be equally reduced in proportion. His lordship contended strenuously for the importance and the policy of attending to the interest and comfort of those clergymen who possessed small incomes.Lord Harrowby
 continued to be of opinion, that the manner adopted would leave their lordships an opportunity of only an imperfect discussion, as in the present instance on the message itself. He compared it to Mr. Palmer's Claim; and their lordships should now, as they did then, entertain a jealous sense of any infringement upon their privileges.Viscount Sidmouth
l. said, he could assure the house it was not with any wish to throw any objection in the way of extending the bounty of parliament to a class of individuals so deserving, that he rose to express his sentiments on the motion proposed for their lordships consideration. No man was more anxious than himself that the liberality of parliament should be extended to those small livings under 150l.Viscount Sidmouth
 said a few words, expressing his most cordial support of the bill, and that he had on a former day only wished due caution might be used in framing it, so that it should not be injurious in its operation.Earl Darnley
857856855 rose to move for an Account of the Number of Licences issued within a certain period, under the act of 1 W. & M. c. 18. commonly called the Toleration Act, and of the 19 G. 3. c. 44, entitled, "An Act for the further relief of Protestant Dissenting' Ministers and Schoolmasters." It appeared, he said, to be highly desirable and important, that the information which it was the object of his motion to procure, should be possessed by parliament and the public. He had no reason to doubt, that a large majority of those, who had obtained licences under these Acts, had applied for them from motives the most strictly conscientious: as little could he doubt, that the wise and liberal policy, by which these acts were dictated, had, in numerous instances, been grossly abused. That such was the fact was well known to magistrates, who were in the habit of attending quarter sessions of the peace in the several counties of England and Wales.—Under these acts, it was competent to any person calling himself a protestant dissenter, of whatever age, or condition, however ignorant, however exceptionable in conduct, and character, by taking the oaths, and making the declarations thereby required, to qualify himself as it was termed, to present any doctrines he pleased, and thus to obtain an exemption from all parochial offices, and from serving on juries, or in the militia. Thus was a strong incentive afforded to schism, and in proportion to its success, an increased buthen thrown upon the members of the established church. He desired, however, to be understood as applying his complaint on this point solely to immunities claimant by self-appointed preachers and teachers, not attached to any dissenting congregations; or by those who, being in the ministry, were also engaged in secular occupations and callings. Persons duly appointed and devoting themselves to the performance of their spiritual duties, ought in his opinion, to enjoy the same immunities as those who had received episcopal ordination,—As to the description of persons, to whom licences ought to be granted (for they were now claimable as of right,) it was a point of extreme delicacy, and importance, concerning which he should be averse to any regulations, but such as all sober minded, and rational dissenters must approve. He could not however, but presume that every individual of that description must be desirous that the doctrines, which he believed
857856855Lord Viscount Sidmouth
858 said, that the fact of the great increase of sectaries and dissenters from the established church of England, was one which was so clear that no man could doubt it. His grace supported the motion and the amendment, and expressed his approbation of the measure proposed on the evening preceding. The fact was, that our population had, particularly in some large towns, far exceeded the machinery by which the beneficial effects of our church establishment could be universally communicated. He did not wish to interfere in the smallest degree with the
858The Archbishop of Canterbury
 concurred in most of what had fallen from the preceding speakers. His lordship thought the matter of the highest consequence. He held in his hand a printed letter to the late archbishop of Canterbury, calling upon his grace's interference; and stating, out of not a large number of persons receiving Licences, that seven or eight of them spelt the word "Gospel" differently; and as many others made their mark, instead of signing their names, on paying their shilling for a licence under the Toleration Act.Earl Grosvenor
 expressed his desire to see every thing done that could be done in favour of the established church, and hoped that something might be done to prevent those abuses that wire practised on the Toleration Act, by which men who never intended to preach or teach took advantage of that liberal enactment, to avoid that civil or military service which no conscientious or religious person would take such means to avoid.The Lord Chancellor
 thought that it was not by any restrictive measure that any great and desirable object could be accomplished. He particularly recommended to their lordships' consideration the small number of churches of the established worship compared to what was required. The people were desirous of procuring religious instruction; and if they could not find it in the establishment, they were obliged to seek it elsewhere, in very many cases, while they would more readily receive it from the church of England. With this fact he was certain many of their lordships must be well acquainted. Give the church its fair and just opportunities, and he had not the slightest reason to imagine any danger to the establishment. The general superiority of education, the justly acquired influence, and the moral habits of the established clergy would, he was convinced, in that case, ensure those moral and religious advantages, that were so much desired by all who had at heart the welfare and happiness of the community at large. His lordship would propose an Amendment which would shew the progressive increase of Dissenters, or persons preaching and teaching, not being of the established church, more fully by going back towards the commencement of his majesty's reign. He therefore moved the yearly returns should commence from the year 1700 instead of 1780.Lord Harrowby
853852 said, he trusted he had how made those amendments to the bill, which would render it less objectionable in the opinion of those noble lords, who on a former day, had expressed their sentiments upon this intended measure. The preamble, "Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God," &c, he wished to continue in those words, which had presented themselves to his mind as the most appropriate to express its introduction. An imperfect obligation of duty was thereby enjoined, which, as he had before observed, coming sanctioned by the authority of their lordships, would not fail to have its due weight upon the people of this country. "No man," said his lordship, "more than myself can pay reverence to the name of God, nor is it used with any impropriety on this great and important occasion." The words which defined the acts of cruelty, he had so altered, as, in his mind they would meet with the approbation of those who very prudently were anxious that great caution should guard the operation of this act. In that part of the bill which was now confined to beasts of draught and burden, he had altered the words to "wound, cut, maim, and with wanton and malicious cruelty, should beat or abuse;" and he trusted the house would feel the propriety of inserting the word "abuse," coupled with the words preceeding; because, upon reflection, several acts of cruelty, requiring the interposition of such a statute, would not easily be comprehended under any other term. "I, one day," continued lord Erskine, "in going along Coventry-street, was struck with honor and disgust at the shocking scene of cruelty which presented itself to my observation. There was a cart, loaded with greens to a most unmerciful extent, drawn by one horse.
853852Lord Erskine
 moved the third reading of the bill to afford further time, for the commissioners to report upon the Judicature of Scotland.The Lord Chancellor
 denied that he had any intention of taking the house by surprize in his bill to extend the duration of the commissioners, and appealed to a noble and learned lord (lord Erskine) who had just come in, for his opinion on that subject with respect to his motives. He felt that there were many difficulties in the present question. As to delay, there was some time required in Scotland to arrange the courts in consequence of the last bill, enacting a new division of them; besides, there was a circuit in Scotland as well as here. He had selected the commissioners from the judges both here and there, from advocates, special pleaders, writers of the signet, and others, the best qualified to give advice and information. He maintained there was no particular delay, and asserted his original opinion that the first bill (lord Grenville's) was not founded or recommended upon sufficient information respecting the laws and practice of the courts of Scotland.The Lord Chancellor
889 was glad in having the present opportunity of expressing his approbation of the sentiments delivered by his noble and learned friend. He was aware his noble and learned friend had bestowed particular and serious attention on the subject, before his present line of conduct. With him, he agreed, considerable mischief had been felt by society, in the multiplication of these acts of parliament; they had been carried
889The Lord Chancellor
 said a few words, expressive of his opinion, that the opposition might be considered hard, as in a particular manner affecting the present bill.The Earl of Darnley
 had long witnessed, with regret, the increase of bills of this description. The necessity of some general legislative measure was, in his opinion, evident; and would be found so upon a perusal of the report of the committee appointed to examine into the laws of debtor and creditor.The Earl of Moira
 declared his consent to the first reading of the bill. Alluding to an observation of the noble baron, he never could admit that lawyers should have, in judicial affairs, a greater share in legislation than other peers. But he could not help observing, there never was a lawyer who did not fancy himself a statesman, and there never was a statesman who did not fancy himself a lawyer. He held an opinion that the introduction of trial by jury, in civil cases, would not answer the expectations of those who most contended for the measure. It reminded him of a discourse on the subject, by two very learned persons in the North. The one entertained an opinion hostile to the measure, and asked, with what machinery he would introduce it? "Why," answered his friend, "there is nothing more easy; make an act of parliament for its introduction." The first replied in his Northern dialect: "My friend, if an act of parliament were passed to make us speak English, I believe we should speak Scotch notwithstanding."The Lord Chancellor
891890 spoke at length upon the
891890Earl Stanhope
 stated various forcible objections to the measure. His lordship said, that his time had been particularly broken in upon by applications from parties respecting such bills as these, which were generally the offspring of self interest, and originated with some attorneys, in particular neighbourhoods. Under the pretence of cheap justice, they were in their effects nothing but cheap injustice to the country. After stating many other sufficient grounds for rejecting the bill, his lordship said, that he had come down to oppose this bill, to mark his disapprobation of such partial, ineffective, and too often injurious measures. The ancient county courts yet remained open to suitors; and he was happy to say, that a noble and learned lord had an intention of bringing forward a measure which contained no partial application, but was directed to this subject in such a way as to embrace the country at large.Lord Ellenborough
 rose, and intimated his wish to make a particular communication, when strangers were ordered to withdraw. Upon our return to the bar,Lord Mulgrave
 had no objection to the first reading of the bill, but urged the difficulty of framing a measure to give effectual remedy.Lord Redesdale
Cessio Bonorum. after supporting the arguments of the other noble lords on the present question, stated, that he had it in intention to bring before their lordships, in the next session, a bill for carrying county courts into full effect throughout England. He wished also to state, that he had two other bills in view to bring before their lordships next session. The first was to raise the sum on which writs of arrests took place, to an amount higher than it was at present, which was ten pounds. The object of the other was to endeavour to apply, as far as it was practicable, that principle which had been acted upon in the laws of Scotland, and in the commercial country of Holland, to the insolvency laws of this land. He meant the principle of Cessio Bonorum.Lord Redesdale,
 objected to the extent of the proposed introduction of jury trial into Scotland. In some respects he thought jury trial objectionable, as in the case of an action in a bond, in which and in other cases, he thought the law of Scotland wiser than our own. His lordship defended the conduct of the commissioners, and stated his opinion, that the original bill was introduced without sufficient knowledge or information respecting the Scots laws.Lord Redesdale
894 spoke in defence of the
894Lord Erskine
893l.l.l.l.892 reviewed the great delays that had occurred in this business, which had been originally proposed by him in June, 1806, and which had been put aside on the change of administration, when parliament was dissolved without being suffered to do any more than to undo what was proposed on behalf of the people of Scotland. That system of procrastination was sedulously pursued, till at last a commission was appointed, nominated by the crown, near the close of last session, and now, instead of their labours, we had one report, and a motion to give them another twelvemonth to consider what they would do. A bill was brought in, without notice, (and he did not know of it till within 24 hours of one of its most important stages,) to extend their time. This he had and would reprobate. A noble and learned lord (Erskine), knew nothing of it, though one of the commission, till he, meeting him, told him of the circumstance. He dwelt upon the propriety of parliament acting for itself, and not acting on the opinion of the Scotch judges, who could not be supposed to be favourable to the
893l.l.l.l.892Lord Grenville
 was addressing the house on the importance and necessity of the bill which he was about to propose, for the relief of suitors in the Court of Session in Scotland. He should conduct his perseverance in the measure, agreeably to the sense of the house, manifested on the present occasion. He concluded by moving, that the bill be read a first time.Lord Grenville
910909l.908907906 rose to make some observations, which, from a regard to the convenience of others, he had reluctantly deferred till the present stage of the bill.—It had indeed, he said, been painful to him to refrain so long from expressing the feelings of astonishment and alarm with which he contemplated the enormous amount of our expenditure, and the delusive and improvident means by
910909l.908907906Lord Viscount Sidmouth
l.l.912l.911 contended that the noble viscount was in error, in supposing that the annual expenditure during the probable continuance of the war could be limited to any definite sum. This, from the unavoidable fluctuation of circumstances and the varying price of all articles necessary to our numerous and diversified equipments, was actually impossible. He regretted as much as the noble viscount, the great increase of our expenditure, but it should be recollected that the shutting of the ports in the Baltic and the embargo in the American ports, must have necessarily increased the price of naval stores, and of all the various articles which were requisite for supplying our maritime forces. With respect to the mode of carrying on the war, by assisting those powers on the continent who were struggling against the common enemy, this was not the time for discussing that question. Circumstances had arisen which had necessarily increased the expenditure under that head; he alluded to the rising of the Spanish people; but in every point of view in which that object could be con-
l.l.912l.911The Earl of Liverpool
 supported the bill. He maintained that it must be attended both with immediate and future advantage. It was attended with good at the moment, in as much as it prepared the people to pay the taxes with which they were at present burthened. It must be attended with advantages in future, by affording ministers an opportunity of judging of the best means of making the existing taxes most effectual.Lord Harrowby
 explained. He declared his opinion that the system which in the present state of affairs we should adopt, was one of husbanding our means and providing for eventual defence. We had nothing to do with sending an army to the continent. That he might not be misunderstood, he expressly stated that our government ought not to have sent an army to Spain. Such had always been his opinion. The noble lord asked, why did he not tell this sooner? He did on the first day of the present session explain these to be his sentiments, and complain that ministers by not consulting parliament on the subject during the last session, had not afforded him an earlier opportunity of stating what his opinion was. If the inhabitants of Spain could not defend themselves, in his judgment any army we could send into the peninsula would be of no avail. All that we had a right to do was to provide them, as far as was in our power, with arms, clothes, and ammunition. He begged also to State, as a proof of the increase of our expenditure, that the single article of transports had increased from one million and a half to three millions.Lord Grenville
917l.l.916915l.l.l.914ll.913l. said, he felt it an irksome task, upon the present occasion, to call their lordships' attention to this subject of finance at this very late period of the session, when the attendance was so thin, and when he had to address nearly empty benches. Ministers seemed determined, that their lordships should scarcely have an opportunity of discussing this bill, by taking care to bring it up to that house at a period when a full attendance could scarcely be expected; they did not even condescend to state its object, and thus it was, that a bill for imposing taxes in perpetuity upon the country, to the amount of a million a year, had hitherto passed through the greater part of its stages unnoticed, and almost unknown, and he even doubted whether many who heard him were at all aware, or had even a suspicion, that the object of the bill was to impose taxes to the amount of a million a year in perpetuity upon the country. The noble earl (Liverpool), in contending that the annual expense of the war could not be definitely fixed at any limited sum, had contended for that, which nobody could doubt. Every one must be aware that the sum could not be precisely limited within the bounds of any previous calculation; but here was an increase of expenditure, in the course of two years, to the amount of 9,000,000917l.l.916915l.l.l.914ll.913l.Lord Grenville
1016sub silentio, complained, that the table was loaded at the end of the session with a great number of bills, each of which was of infinite importance, but so crowded together, that it was quite impossible for any noble lord, if he possessed ten times the faculties belonging to our nature, to attend with care to them. Last night a bill of the highest importance passed 1016sub silentio,Earl Grosvenor
 accounted for the crowded table, and the number of bills upon it at the close of the, session, by the number that the commons had passed at that period. But his lordship observed, that in all times it had been the same case according to the number and proportion of bills before them. As to the transfer and disposal of Law Offices, he believed there was not on record an instance where the patronage bestowed on the Keeper of the Great Seal had been abused, from the Revolution to the present hour, although that patronage was a main link in the chain that fitted each noble person who preceded him in office during that period, to have the personal means of holding rank consistently and suitably with others of their lordships. As to the sale of Commissions in the army, he was of opinion, that instead of injuring, it benefited the army by preventing the admission of improper persons to hold rank therein.The Lord Chancellor
 defended both the principle and the detail of the bill, and supported it strenuously.The Earl of Rosslyn
 perfectly coincided in the sentiments of his noble and learned friend, and contended that the Sale of Commissions under proper regulations, was rather beneficial to the army than prejudicial. It prevented adventurers from engrossing Commissions, and ensured to the army men of rank, respectability and consideration.Lord Redesdale
1035**10341033* spoke to the following purport:—My lords, I rise for the purpose of proposing that your lordships should go into a committee or the whole house upon this bill, which has been introduced for the preservation of purity in election, and the prevention of sales of Seats in Parliament, by corrupt traffic. Before I proceed, my lords, to declare those general sentiments which induce me to admit the propriety of this measure, and before I state those grounds, which, in my opinion, render it necessary, and before I describe what the bill is, I shall, in the first place, pronounce what the bill is not. This measure does not in the least partake of the nature of what has been denominated Parliamentary Reform. It does not in-
1035**10341033*The Earl of Liverpool
1037**1036. It gives me great satisfaction, my lords, that the noble secretary deferred the discussion of this bill to its present stage of proceeding. Thereby an opportunity has been afforded for a fuller attendance of your lordships; for did not think it perfectly decorous, nor would it have been quite decent, that such an important measure should have been debated in a thin house; besides, another advantage has accrued—that of giving more time for its due consideration. With regard to the greater part of the noble Secretary's speech, I most readily subscribe to many of those sentiments which have been delivered, but there are parts of that speech, containing sentiments to which I find it impossible to subscribe. It has been stated, that this measure does hot partake of the nature of reform, as generally understood; but, my lords, disguise the name as you please, it still remains the same, and is really a species of reform. Neither, my lords, is it less deserving of our approbation; because, if abuses are admitted and avowed, it is our duty to redress them. Glad should I have been, if the provisions of this bill had been in unison with its title, which certainly recommends itself to our approbation and respect. Still, whatever the measure may be called, and however deficient in its extent, it is a part of that system of reform, which I rejoice has some time commenced, and which, for the interests of the nation, is not likely to cease. The first step in this progressive reformation of abuse began by the introduction of a bill for the prevention of granting certain Places in Reversion, which, though not at that time, was ultimately successful. The bill which lately passed for preventing the Sale of Offices was another measure for the reform of
1037**1036Earl Grosvenor
 commented upon several parts of the bill, for the purpose of shewing the futility of its enactments as they now stood, particularly with respect to one of its professed objects, that of preventing the abuse of the patronage of the crown. There was not near the same moral guilt in trafficking seats for money, as in trafficking for them the patronage of the crown, and yet the difference in the enactments with respect to the two objects, was peculiarly marked. In the former case broad and general words were used, but in the latter, by inserting the word "express" it was scarcely possible that they could reach any case of abuse, unless where the parties were insane enough to make an express agreement.The Earl of Rosslyn
 also condemned the bill as now worded, and contended that it was a mere trick and deception on the country.The Earl of Selkirk
 after a few observations, moved, 'That the word 'express,' should be omitted.'Earl Grosvenor
 opposed the motion; he said that if the implication was triable at common law, the bill, even as it stood, would add to the punishments; if it was not, it would create punishment to meet the offence. With respect to the question of parliamentary reform, his lordship expressed himself decidedly against the measure. He stated, that, having come into parliament in the year 1783, and being attached to the politics of a great man, now no more, he was not inclined even to go along with that great character in the support of such a doctrine.The Lord Chancellor
1039**1038; —My lords, every one must bear testimony to the honest motives and sincerity with which the noble lord, who has just sat down, has invariably declared his sentiments, as an independent peer of parliament. As much as I am disposed in general to concur with the opinions of my noble friend, there cannot be the same unanimity on the present occasion. It has been stated by the noble Secretary, that, for the first time, it has been acknowledged and avowed in parliament, that abuses, such as those which the bill professes to remedy, do actually exist; It has also, my lords, been stated, that considerable doubt remains upon this subject; and the noble Secretary referred to other authorities than his own, though his own must be allowed to be of considerable weight, to prove that the selling and purchasing seats in parliament fall under the cognizance of the common law; and, if so, I do think we are now called upon, in the most solemn manner, to declare what the law is as it effects the present question. By rejecting the bill before you, my lords, we should indirectly sanction this corrupt practice, and assent to its legality. Still, as the common law now stands, I would appeal to my noble and learned friend on the Woolsack, whether, as the guardian of the property of others, he himself, or the Master of the Rolls, or any of the Masters in Chancery, would consider any influence attached to property belonging to a minor, or other person under the noble and learned lord's care, as a species of interest, legally accountable for in the hands of those who exercised it, and, as such,
1039**1038Viscount Sidmouth
 contended, that there was a clear distinction between trafficking seats for money and using the patronage of the crown; it being in the former case entirely gratuitous, whilst in the latter the patronage might be used with innocent and honourable motives, although in its effect it might have an influence in procuring a return. It was necessary, therefore, to guard against rendering criminal the innocent use of patronage; and were it not for the insertion of the word "express," it would scarcely be possible to use that patronage in any way without being liable to the charge of making an implied agreement with respect to some election.Lord Mulgrave
 defended the bill, and contended that if the word "express" had not been introduced, it would have been scarcely possible to make even the most innocent use of the patronage of the crown, and it might even have happened under the bill, as it would then have stood, that persons might have been called upon to prove a negative.Lord Boringdon
 in very strong and forcible terms, expressed his opposition to the bill.The Earl of Carysfort
 thought, that by enacting the principle of this bill, and recording it on the statute book, the best answer would be given to the violent reformers, as it would shew that an abuse was no sooner discovered than a remedy was applied; and it was remarkable that those who were loudest in calling for reform, seemed to consider the measure in this point of view, as they opposed it the moment it was introduced. He could have wished that it had been rendered more efficient; but he thought it of great importance to enact the principle, and from that other enactments might follow.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
1161 stated to. their lordships, that the Lords Commissioners appointed by the king, had received two commissions from his majesty, signed by
1161The Lord Chancellor
 in his majesty's name delivered the following Speech.The Lord Chancellor
