39 said, he rose, relying upon that indulgence which the House usually afforded to persons placed in his situation, an indulgence which he hoped would not be refused to a first effort in debate. He trusted that the House would give credit to the principles by which his majesty had been guided in his conduct towards the fallen state of Austria; they were those upon which he had uniformly acted, whenever he had been called upon for protection and support. He was persuaded that the House would feel the exertions in the Austrian cause not unworthy of the character of the nation. Austria had entered into the contest, hurried on by the imperious pressure of the time. His majesty had extended a generous aid to her, without exposing the permanent interests of his people. It was satisfactory, too, to know, that, whilst his majesty regretted, in common with all his subjects, the disadvantageous peace, in which the war on the continent had terminated, his majesty had employed no means whatever to induce Austria to embark in it. The House would learn, and he trusted with interest and satisfaction, that the papers relative to the Expedition to the Scheldt were to be laid before them. On the subject of that Expedition, he observed, that the particular merits of the armament were not at present the subject of discussion; but though he lamented that the whole of its objects had not been accomplished, thus much he would say of it, that the advantages the country would derive from what had been effected, if not now generally acknowledged, would soon be generally experienced. The sentiments the king had thought fit to express to his parliament in this instance, were worthy of those he had upon all occasions entertained; he was beloved by his allies and dreaded by his enemies. While empires were sink-
39Lord Bernard
43424140 in seconding the motion, said, that he would not have obtruded himself upon the attention of the House, had he not been convinced that they would extend to him the candour, indulgence and patience granted on former occasions. In the course of his majesty's Speech, wherein he had taken a review of the events by which the interests of this and of other countries had been affected, his majesty had had the painful duty to lament, that the issue of the struggle of some of his allies, for liberty and independence, had but little corresponded with the hopes he had indulged; but it was some consolation to reflect, that the misfortunes could in no degree be attributed to the line of conduct his majesty had deemed it right to pursue. Austria, goaded by injury, and provoked by insult, had entered into a war without the advice of his majesty, where she had to fight, not merely for her national honour, but for her existence as an independent State. When she was called upon to acknowledge the right of a man to the crown of Spain, whose only title was usurpation, she found herself compelled to employ for her protection those troops that, in imminent expectation of hostility, she had collected round her throne.—No share of the disasters which occurred was to be imputed to her thirst of hostilities. It had been authoritatively intimated to her by France, that she must at once reduce her
43424140Mr. Peel,
35*34*33*44 said, that in rising to move an Amendment to the Address which had been just read, he should state very shortly the reasons which prevented him from giving that Address his concurrence.
35*34*33*44Lord Gower
626160595857565554535251504948*47*46*45*44*43*42*41*40*39*38*prima facie37* said that he was the more anxious to trouble the House with a few words upon the question that was now before them, because it appeared to him that it was not only of great consequence in itself, but that the fate which it should experience, would, in a great measure, enable the country to judge as to the fate of all future questions, relating to the mismanagement of public affairs, and lead to some very important conclusions as to the temper and composition of parliament itself. For, if this House, agreeing in the proposition of the two gentlemen, who spoke first in the debate, should determine, after all the calamities that we have experienced, to present to the throne an Address, which is the mere echo of the words, which the authors of these calamities have thought fit to place in the mouth of their sovereign; if we express neither resentment at the past, nor anxiety for the future fate of the country committed to such hands; if we omit all those things that ought to form the main topics of an Address of the House of Commons, under circumstances of great public distress, and acknowledged weakness in the national councils, it will be a vain and hopeless task for me, or any man even to address you upon any similar occasion hereafter. If we do not act now we must be considered as having determined not to act at all; as having resigned ourselves implicitly to the guidance of any persons that may happen to be placed at the helm, and as having completely renounced that salutary controul, which we were once accustomed to exercise over the servants of the Crown.626160595857565554535251504948*47*46*45*44*43*42*41*40*39*38*prima facie37*The Hon. J. W. Ward
 objected to the Amendment, as it condemned the conduct of ministers without evidence.Mr. Herbert
64 did not mean either to support the Address or the Amendment, but he wished the House to adopt some course which would produce unanimity. Not being in possession of the necessary documents, he could not know to whom the country ought to impute the dishonour and calamities which had lately attached to his Majesty's arms. He sincerely lamented the unfortunate expedition to the Scheldt, and thought it absolutely necessary that that disgraceful enterprize should be accounted for by his majesty's ministers, by the noble lord whose department it then was to superintend it, or by the naval and military commanders who conducted the execution of it. Our situation in this country was certainly a subject of consolation to the people, when they compared their state with that of others; but when he saw the present abject state of our allies, whose territories had been nearly swallowed up in the French empire, he did not see that even we had much reason for exultation. He wished the House to present a dutiful Address to the throne, desiring an enquiry into the conduct of ministers, but carefully avoiding all expressions which might appear to prejudge one or all of them. He was sorry to perceive one very essential subject had been omitted in the Speech, but which he would wish to introduce into the Address; he meant the situation of the people of Ireland, who were our most faithful as well as most useful allies. He had opportunities of being informed, and knew it to be true, that they were now suffering under very great hardships, but which he did not impute to the noble
64Lord Kensington
"Where thousands bleed to raise a single name.""That reason frowns at war's unequal game,84838281 said, that he perceived the House wished to come to a decision on the question, and it would not be necessary for him to detain them long in explaining the reasons for the vote he should give this night against the Amendment, and in favour of the original Address. When the right hon. gent. (Mr. Ponsonby) however spoke of the great responsibility which attached to his majesty's ministers for the measures which they advised, in which responsibility he must participate, as far as he was concerned, it appeared to him that the right hon. gent, should have gone a little farther, and, on the part of himself and the other gentlemen in opposition to the present administration, have stated, that they also laid claim to, and courted the full responsibility which was due to their measures while they were in the administration. The right hon. gent. might there find ample occasion for that penal justice, of which he spoke—He was as anxious as any man for the fullest inquiry on every point, where an open inquiry could not be prejudicial to the interests of the country. But he could not agree to the Amendment, because he considered it would go to pledge the House to an inquiry, and he wished to suspend this opinion whether a further inquiry was necessary or not, until the documents were laid on the table, which his majesty's Speech promised to lay before Parliament.—The precise period when his own knowledge and responsibility on this subject ceased, was when it had been intimated to government, that the objects of the Expedition had not been, and could not be accomplished. He did not know but that sufficient reasons might be produced to ac-
"Where thousands bleed to raise a single name.""That reason frowns at war's unequal game,84838281Mr. Cunning
66prima facie said that no one felt the necessity of supporting his majesty or the government more than he did. The question now only was what sort of inquiry they were to hold out to the public. Feeling as he did, in common with many others, that there were several subjects of disgrace and calamity which had lately occurred and which called much for parliamentary inquiry, he came down with the hope that ministers would have put into the Speech not only a declaration of their readiness to afford every information that could be required, but that the mover and seconder of the Address would have introduced into the Address a pledge on the part of parliament to take these calamities and disasters into immediate consideration. He had hoped that ministers would not have put expressions into his majesty's mouth so coldly alluding to those disasters; but, that being the case, he surely thought that with such a strong 66prima facieMr. Bathurst
7473727170696867 said that the hon. member who spoke last had much misunderstood the Amendment of his noble friend. It was not the intention of his noble friend by that Amendment to criminate in the first instance, any particular person in any particular transaction. Its only object was to tell his majesty that that House felt deeply for the calamities of the last campaign, and that they were resolved to institute such inquiries as should lead to a discovery of the causes which had led to the calamity and disgrace which had thus been brought on the country. Did the hon. member now deny that the country had been exposed to calamity and disgrace? Did he believe that this country had ever, at any former period, been exposed to so great calamity and disgrace? Could the hon. gentleman deny that ministers had exposed our councils to scorn and derision? Could he deny that they had afforded an opportunity to our enemy to scoff at our folly, and in his publications to scorn and deride us? And still farther, could he deny that Europe did not sympathize in this feeling, and agree that the observations were just? Did the hon. gent, then think, that all these instances of national disgrace were to be endured by the country, and notwithstanding that the ministers must be held to be men of the most perfect wisdom and propriety of conduct? If so, was he also prepared to say that the officers employed in the service were not to blame? That all had failed, but that neither they who planned, nor they who executed had done wrong? To determine this, it would be well to consider what was the state of the country and of Europe at the end of the last campaign. That general who had been much and most unjustly traduced (sir John Moore), fell in the month of January in the battle of Corunna, which at the moment of victory he sealed with his blood. A battle, notwithstanding all that the hon. gent, had said, at least as brilliant and glorious as the battle of Talavera. A battle fought when the commander was carrying a retreating army out of the country; not one
7473727170696867Mr. Ponsonby
 observed in explanation, that from their number it was impossible for him to answer all the questions put to him by the right hon. gent. He would only say that the substance of what he had meant to state was, that in a motion for enquiry, it was unfair to anticipate the result, which the Amendment in the present instance certainly did, and for that reason and on that ground only he had opposed it.Mr. Bathurst
79coup de maincoup de main.787776 felt it to be his duty to justify the line of conduct that had been pursued, respecting the expeditions, upon which so much of that day's discussion turned, and he assured the right hon. gent. who spoke last, that there was no part of his conduct which he should not have an opportunity of knowing. Conscious of the wise policy upon which these expeditions were framed, and confident that he could most fully and satisfactorily justify the principles upon which they had been undertaken, and the manner in which they had been directed, to the attainment of their objects, he had more reason to court than to shrink from inquiry. But as the share he had had in these transactions, had been frequently adverted to, in the course of the debate, he could not bring himself to allow the present question to come to a vote, without offering some observations to the House upon the subjects and arguments that had been introduced into the discussion. He did not think it necessary, however, to enter very minutely into the subject on the present occasion, as it would come frequently under the consideration of the House in a more detailed form, when the necessary documents were before them. He trusted that he never, in any part of his political conduct, discovered any disposition to evadé enquiry; and though, differing; as he did, from the right hon. gent. who had I now sat down, on many other points, he had always agreed with him in that. On the former occasion, to which the right hon. member had alluded, he had not opposed the motion for enquiry; but the majority of the House thought differently from him, and negatived the motion for inquiry. The same inclination he had always discovered for enquiry, he felt in an equal degree on the present occasion. He was sensible, however, at the same time, of the difficulties to military, as well as public men, in attending such enquiries, and the almost utter impracticability, in some cases, of making their views fully
79coup de maincoup de main.787776Lord Castlereagh
 in explanation, said, he did not mean to state, that lord Wellington had 38,000 men at the battle of Talavera, but that 38,000 men were employed in the peninsula.Mr. Ponsonby,
10410310210110099veto9897969594 then rose, and said, that the hon. gent., who had just sat down, had urged it, as a serious charge against him, that he had not taken an earlier part in the debate, and accused him of disrespect to the House, in having remained so long silent. But no sooner had the hon. gent, preferred that charge, than he put a variety of questions to him, to which he demanded a categorical answer. The best answer, that could be given to this charge, had been supplied by the hon. gent, himself, viz. that being," to use his mother tongue, "under many indictments, and each indictment consisting of many counts," it was not unnatural, it was not inconsistent with common justice, that he should be desirous to hear those indictments and the arguments and proofs, by which they were supported, before he should plead or enter upon his defence. When the House recollected that it was not until he heard the hon. gent., that he could be aware of many of the questions, which he had to answer, or of many of the indictments against which he had to defend himself, it would, he was sure, acquit him of any thing like intentional disrespect, for not having risen sooner. It was, in point of fact, because he expected to hear from the hon. gent., and some of those who sat near him, all those charges which he should have to answer, that he had not offered himself to the attention of the House at an earlier period of the debate. There was also another reason why he wished to hear the hon. gent, and others, on that side of the House, before he rose; he wished to know whether the Amendment which they had proposed was all the amendment which they meant to offer to the Address, or
10410310210110099veto9897969594The Chancellor of the Exchequer
80 differed entirely from the opinion pronounced by a noble lord (Kensington) that Portugal could be defended. The authority of sir Charles Stewart, did not bear upon the point, as he only gave his opinion of Portugal as it was in the year 1797. He thought a most peculiar degree of responsibility lay upon lord Chatham, who was at the same time a minister, and the commander in chief of the Expedition. The Expedition which he commanded was attended with greater expence of treasure, and a greater sacrifice of human life, than almost any other in our history, and it had most completely failed in its objects. The Expedition to Spain was equally a subject which deserved inquiry. He first heard of Soult's army being completely defeated and dispersed, with the loss of all its artillery; and yet this same army, so beaten as was described, appeared afterwards in the field, and
80General Tarleton
 made some most pointed observations in reply to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He remarked, that even by the admission of the right hon. gent., the men whom he put into office, were only placed there because no better could be found. He also challenged any one to deny, that in whatever company he had been, high or low, the present administration was spoken of in terms of contempt.Mr. Tierney
9392919089prima facie88coup de main?coup de main?coup de main!878685 said, that it was rather strange that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not deigned to give them his idea of the state of the country, or to inform them upon what grounds he himself was the minister. He had given way to the right hon. gent, who had spoke last, because he conceived that he wished to make some explanations on what was certainly a very delicate subject. As far as this respected the individuals concerned, it certainly was not a subject which any gentleman would wish to bring into discussion in that House. The right hon. gent, had, however, now to answer, not to
9392919089prima facie88coup de main?coup de main?coup de main!878685Mr. Whitbread
 had no objection to an enquiry, but he presumed that the documents which his majesty had ordered to be laid before the House would prove satisfactory; as all classes of people had been once zealous for the success of Spain against her invaders, and encouraged ministers to assist her to such an extent; he did not like to see them abandoned, or public confidence withdrawn from them.Mr. Lushington
65 saw no good likely to arise to the country from an enquiry, as he was well aware of the manner in which it would most likely be carried on. He therefore liked that part of the Amendment, which at once condemned the expeditions to Walcheren and Spain, better than that which merely proposed an inquiry into them. The measures of ministers, even as mentioned by themselves deserved censure and condemnation. The tardiness with which they executed what measures they had devised, where promptitude was particularly necessary, excited the surprise and indignation of every man. For argument's sake he would suppose their projects to be the best concerted; still would the tardiness of their execution be sufficient to establish the criminality of ministers. Buonaparté left Spain before the end of January: it was then plain that a war with Austria would inevitably ensue; he left Paris on the 16th of April: fought the battle of Ratisbon on the 22d, and in a few days after reached Vienna. If ministers were determined to assist Austria they ought to have done it in time, and not alter her army was defeated, and an armistice conceded to the conqueror. (Hear, hear!) Buonaparté was able to draw his forces from Spain and bring the war with Austria to a termination before our expedition could reach Walcheren. Could not the same armament have been sent to Walcheren before these events happened? but ministers acted similarly awards Spain. The marquis of Wellesley had been appointed ambassador from this country to the Supreme Junta on the 29th of May last, but he did not depart from England until the end of July. Were the affairs of any country likely to be attended with success, when planned and executed by such ministers? He insisted upon it that it was a want of policy to send troops to Spain, where they must
65Mr. Brand
63 said, that he could not sit down and give a silent vote upon subjects which had excited so much regret and indignation among all classes of the community. As the representatives of the people, they ought to tell their constituents that they did not overlook the conduct of ministers, and that they would not pass by their misconduct without punishment. He was really astonished at the conduct of the noble lord who moved the Address, as well as that of the gentleman who seconded it, in having expressed a hope that it would be carried with unanimity, when it was a mere echo of the speech; composed by his Majesty's ministers. At present they wanted information to enable the House to judge whether public affairs had been well or ill managed, and without delay they ought to pledge themselves to the country to call for such information, and demand a rigid enquiry after the supposed delinquents. If the House considered the armaments that were still going forward, it ought not to lose an instant in the investigation of those which had already terminated in disaster and disgrace. He would appeal to any gentleman opposite him, whether
63Sir Thomas Turton
113112verbatim et seriatim,111 rose and spoke to the following effect:—Sir, I was very anxious to have offered myself to your notice on the night of the last debate, after an allusion which had been made towards the close of it, to the provisional agreement which had been entered into by an honourable relation of mine (Mr. Erskine) as his Majesty's minister to the United States, but I am not sorry that I did not catch your eye, as I may perhaps hope to experience from the indulgence of the House, from the peculiar personal interest I feel in the question, as well as from its public importance, a more patient attention than could have been afforded at that late hour in its then exhausted state.—It is perfectly correct, as stated by my right hon. friend (Mr. Perceval), that the dispatch communicated to parliament, of the 23rd of January last, was the only dispatch by which conditions were prescribed to Mr. Erskine, for the concluding a provisional agreement; but I can by no means admit, that when he found that the conditions were impracticable according to the letter, he might not have found it expedient to refer to his other instructions for the purpose of ascertaining, whether he would be acting in conformity to the wishes of his Majesty's government, if he was to comply with the sense and spirit of his instructions, though he could not with the letter. I can, therefore, in no shape admit that the other dispatches might not have materially contributed to the judgment he formed, when he considered this substantial compliance with the instructions as within the scope of his duty. That he did so consider them, we have his own authority in a letter which he wrote to Mr. Smith, and which has been since published, in which letter he speaks of his several letters of instruction, as having led him to think that he should consult the views of his majesty's government, by following the spirit of his instructions when he could not have them complied with according to the letter. It is quite clear, therefore, that in his judgment, the other letters of instruction are material to the forming an opinion of his case—that opinion may be erroneous. We, the House, can be in no condition to call it so, unless the instructions are produced. Ministers may, if they please, withhold them; with
113112verbatim et seriatim,111Mr. Morris
 appeared at the bar, with the report of the Address to his Majesty, in answer to his most gracious Speech.Lord Bernard
122121s.120119prima facie118117116115 rose, and began by observing, that he had paid that attention that was due to the sentiments of the different gentlemen, gentlemen who had already delivered their respective opinions on the various topics which the full discussion of the King's Speech naturally embraced. He had listened, he hoped, with equal candour, to the defence of the men who thought themselves still qualified to govern the country, and to the arguments of those who thought themselves better fitted for that arduous situation; and the result of the whole was, to confirm more and more that calm conviction of mind, with which he had entered that House, of the necessity, sooner or later, of an entire change of system; of a thorough, constitutional, and temperate reform in parliament. When they considered the extent and nature of the failures abroad, the numerous instances of obstinacy, fatuity, and incapability at home, that had stigmatized the short period of time since their last meeting in that place; and when they compared, with that consideration, the confidence that the majority of that assembly were still willing to repose in the authors of our disgraces, it did appear to him astonishing, how any well-meaning reflecting man could doubt, that there was something in our system radically wrong. With respect to the leading complaints made against the present ministers, never were men in such a state of self-abandonment; they had nothing to say for themselves, and could have confidence in nothing but in that assembly, in which there seemed to be a mysterious something that might justify the most culpable in expectations the most extravagant, not only of impunity, but protection. This he did not say out of any sentiment of personal asperity to the gentlemen composing the present administration, and the principle of it, which, without a reform, it must have in common with every future administration: he spoke not against this individual or that, or in favour of this or that party. If gentlemen at this very awful crisis felt alarm, because the conduct of public affairs were intrusted to the present ministers, and thought that their apprehensions for the public safety could be removed only by the appoint-
122121s.120119prima facie118117116115Sir Francis Burdett
125124123 called upon the House to observe the remarkable words made use of by the hon. baronet; whenever he spoke of the House of Commons, the hon. baronet never condescended to call them the House of Commons, but in speaking of them, called them "this assembly" or "this room," or "this meeting:" If by this, the hon. baronet meant to insinuate that they were not the legal and constitutional representatives of the people, he altogether dissented from any such monstrous doctrine, and gave it as his opinion, that the Reform recommended by the hon. baronet would only increase the danger it was designed to remedy. With respect to the Jubilee, he strongly reprobated the very improper terms made use of by the hon. baronet in his description of that memorable festival, where he spoke of it as forcing joy down the throats of the people; never, he contended for it, was the popular affection of joy so spontaneous, so sincere, and so universal: coupling this with the "malignant star," of which the hon. baronet spoke so eloquently, he wished to know if the reign of our beloved monarch, commencing in such an æra of national glory; and with the gift to his people of a noble and honourable peace, partook of any portion of that malignant influence so pathetically deplored by the hon. baronet? The hon. baronet had said a great deal of how happy we should be could we travel back to any one epoch of our past condition for the last fifteen years. He would go a little higher than the hon. baronet went, and say, that
125124123Mr. Yorke
126 thought the present ministers incapable of serving the country efficiently at this awful crisis. He was not fond of systematic opposition. He respected the right hon. gent. at the head of the government; gave him full credit for his integrity, but that was not enough; gave him credit for his talents also, but did not think they were of the kind that were at present wanting at the head of an administration. He did not blame that right hon. gent. for the dissensions that lately occurred in the cabinet; but if there had been an efficient head, there would have been no such dissensions. When a regiment was in mutiny, the commanding officer was responsible.—With respect to the Walcheren Expedition, he could not see the necessity of waiting for the production of papers before they gave their opinion upon it.—What could those papers contain? Could ministers shew him a new map of Europe? Unless they could, and one essentially different from all that he had ever consulted, he never could be brought to approve of au Expedition up the Scheldt.—All the mischief that had been done at Flushing might, perhaps, be repaired in a month.—As to the glorious victory of Talavera, as it had been called, there was a glory of the soldier, and a glory of the general. The glory of the soldier was patience under privation and fatigue—discipline and courage. This glory had, indeed, been displayed in all its lustre at Talavera; but although he admired the talents of lord Wellington, he did not think that he had acted, in the advance into Spain, the part of a wise general. Before
126Sir John Sebright
 did not see the least occasion for this Amendment, his Majesty having promised that the Estimates for the current year should be prepared with the utmost attention to economy. The proposed Amendment would only serve to mark a suspicion of this promise, and to raise expectations in the people which could not be gratified. He then objected to the language in which the hon. gent. spoke of the pressure of the taxes on the people—a language which, in his opinion, could answer no good purpose whatever. He rather thought the Amendment alluded to those measures of economy which were under discussion last summer; and, as he knew that an hon. gent. (Mr. Martin,) intended to bring forward his Resolutions again, he saw no reason for the proposed pledge.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the Amendment, upon the ground that the Estimates related to the war expenditure solely, while the Address related to measures of economy, proper at all times, but particularly so at a time when the war expenditure was so large. As to raising unreasonable expectations, the Amendment carefully avoided this by the introduction of the words, "as far as was consistent with the welfare of the state."Mr. Ponsonby
 thought the paragraph unnecessary, as matters connected with the public economy were confided to the Finance Committee. His chief object in rising was to notice a statement made by an hon. baronet (Sir F. Burdett) respecting a noble relation of his. He understood the hon. baronet to state, that his relation (lord Sidmouth) received a peerage for having commenced the war; but he was misinformed as to the fact, for it was notorious he did not receive the peerage then, but afterwards, on coming into administration with Mr. Pitt; and then he was induced to accept of it from circumstances independent of personal gratification. He begged also to state, that his noble relation, on retiring from office, declined a title higher than what he afterwards received, and also refused any pecuniary reward or gratification which was then offered to him.Mr. Bathurst
 said in explanation, that he only meant to express his opinion generally, that the honour was ill bestowed, that the noble lord had done nothing to deserve it, and that he was still to learn what were his merits.Sir F. Burdett
130 hoped for the indulgence of the House in replying to some allusions which had been made to him. He had not admitted on a former night that he was ignorant of the duties of the office which he had the honour to fill; but, if he was ignorant, he would not come to the hon. gent. for instruction. He came into office under great disadvantage, after it had been filled by the hon. gent. who lately left it; but he flattered himself, that from the knowledge which he had previously acquired of Finance, as Chairman of Ways and Means, and a Member of the Finance Committee, and by unremitting industry, the prophecy of the hon. gent. as to the detriment which the public service would sustain, would fail to be realised. As to retarding the Report of the Finance Committee, he thought he had done a public service, by procuring papers to be expunged from it, which, had they gone forth, would have had a most detrimental effect to the country. He believed it was the first time it had ever
130Mr. Wharton
 also supported the Amendment, which pledged the House to enforce only such retrenchments as were consistent with the welfare of the country. What confidence could Parliament place in the assurance of ministers, that the estimates for the present year should be framed with a strict regard to economy, when they opposed an inquiry into the profuse expenditure of the year that was past?Sir A. Pigot
 replied in the negative; unless, indeed, he might receive his Majesty's commands to make some communication relative to the gallant leader of these troops. Such a communication as that alluded to by the noble Lord was unnecessary; for it was perfectly consistent with the existing laws that a certain number of Foreign Troops should be in British pay, and that number had not been exceeded by the accession of the Troops under the duke of Brunswick. If, however, it had been exceeded, under the peculiar circumstances in which those brave soldiers arrived, such a step would, in his opinion, have been completely justifiable; although in that case he should certainly have thought it his duty to advise a communication to Parliament on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
127, adverting to the Walcheren Expedition, observed, that there was not a sufficient number of craft to bring the necessary number of troops at once against the enemy. This demanded inquiry. The damage done to Flushing, he said, might be repaired in a short time. He explained, that the reasons why he had on a former night, made some observations on the conduct of the officer commanding our army in Spain, were these—First, because ministers had declared that the advance to Spain was
127General Tarleton
 contended, that the general sentiment of the country was, that government had been guilty of a shameful want of economy, more particularly in the military department. He would vote for the Amendment, because it pledged the House to an inquiry on the subject.Mr. John Smith
128 observed, that he wished to introduce an Amendment in one part of the Address, and to that part he would confine what he had to say. He had on a former occasion observed, that there was in the Address no pledge on the part of the House to turn its attention to an economical reform. When taxes were collected almost to as great an amount, as the people could bear; when such large sums had been prodigally wasted in the course of the last summer; when the right hon. gent. had joined with him persons whose views of economy were so different from those generally entertained; he particularly alluded to a Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Wharton), who had been Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, and a member of the Finance Committee, in which he had evinced sentiments materially different from the Chairman, and was in a great measure the cause of the slow progress of that Committee. Under all these circumstances,
128Mr. Whitbread
, adverting to the circumstance of the reception into British pay of a number of Foreigh Troops that had arrived in this country under the command of the duke of Brunswick Oels, wished to know if it was the intention of ministers to advise his Majesty to make any communication to the House on the subject?Earl Temple
 thought it important that the House should shew a disposition to probe and examine into every abuse; for otherwise the people would he apt to think that abuses were greater than they were. He should therefore support the motion.Earl Temple
 moved the usual question "That a Supply be granted to his Majesty."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 explained, by saying he never had spoken of the Orders in Council, or the system of licences, as eligible measures; on the contrary, he thought them abstractedly ineligible; but they were forced upon the government by the existing circumstances.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 assured the right hon. gent. (Mr. Tierney) that in issuing those licences the most perfect impartiality was observed, and no man's political principles or conduct ever thought of on such occasions.Mr. Rose
 attributed the comparative prosperity of our commerce of late, not to the Orders in Council, nor to the licensing system, but to the temporary suspension of the American embargo and non-intercourse, under an idea that all differences were adjusted with Mr. Erskine; and to the occurrence of the Austrian war, which attracted all the French troops from the ports of Holland and Germany.Mr. Ponsonby
 said he should think it would better have become the hon. gent. to have sought more accurate information on the subject of our export and import trade, before he ventured to make a public assertion, that the whole of our import trade was of late carried on under the system of licenses from the government, for an exportation of mere bullion, without any home produce or manufacture. The fact was, that for a very long time past our export trade had been carried on in manufactures, with a perpetual balance of millions in favour of this country, and to a degree of prosperity superior not only to any former period of war, but to the most favoured times of peace in the history of the British empire. It was possible that some parts of our import trade, from particular quarters, might be carried on by individuals, merely by an export of money. This, however, had no sanction from the government of the country, who did every thing in their power to prevent it. It was not impossible that some instances might have occurred, such as the hon. gent. had mentioned, of bullion being bought up at an advanced rate, to be sent out of the country. It was, however, scarcely possible, in the immense business of issuing licenses, that some abuses might not have been practised by some individuals. If, however, the hon. gent. knew of any such, and would have the goodness to point out any manner in which it was possible they could be detected or prevented, he might rely upon it that his advice should be thankfully received, and vigilantly adopted. But he would find it a difficult thing to persuade that House, or the merchants of this country to adopt such a policy as the suppression of a system under which the commerce of this country had prospered beyond all former example.Mr. Rose
 supported the argument of Mr. Rose, and repeated his assertion of Tuesday night—that the amount of commercial exports, in actual manufactures and produce from this country, within the last year, exclusively of bullion, exceeded by a balance of from seven to eight millions any year of our history in the most flourishing times of peace; and by ten millions, any former year of war. With respect to the other question put by the hon. gent. he conceived it not to be the time for discussing that subject. If any such measure was in the contemplation of the India Company, as the application for a loan, or for a renewal of their charter, it must originate in the Court of Directors, and not in that House. His Majesty's ministers had no power to oblige the India Company to a disclosure of their intentions upon those heads. If they contemplated such a proceeding, they must proceed by petitioning the parliament; and it would be time enough to discuss those subjects, when they came before it in a proper shape.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 assured the hon. and learned gent. that he never meant to ascribe the success of oar trade to the Walcheren Expedition.Mr. Ponsonby
 knew of no such license as that which the hon. gent. had stated.Mr. Rose
174173172171coup de main?170coup de main,169coup de main,168167166165164163162 rose and spoke to the following effect:—Sir, when at the close of a former night's debate, I gave notice of the motion, which I shall this night have the honour to submit to the House, it was my intention to propose the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the conduct of the whole campaign. Upon reflection, however, I am persuaded that it will he much more conducive to the object I have in view, namely, to prove the incapacity and total want of system, that pervade all the military measures of his Majesty's ministers, to separate the different branches of the campaign, and institute a distinct inquiry into each; after which particular investigation, the several results may he more clearly summed up, and a general conclusion drawn with greater accuracy, justice and truth. I shall, therefore, in what I have to address to the House and in the motion with which I mean to conclude, confine myself exclusively to the policy and conduct of the late disastrous Expedition to the Scheldt; and when the House considers that, neither in the Speech from the throne nor in the Address to his Majesty upon it, is any thing contained, that holds out a promise or a pledge, that any inquiry will be instituted, I am persuaded, that gentlemen must feel not alone the propriety but the necessity of agreeing to my motion. The House has heard a noble lord (Castlereagh) who is so much concerned in these transactions, express his readiness, nay, his solicitude, to meet inquiry. I will call then, upon that noble lord and upon others, implicated equally with him in this transaction, who are heard to speak with an equal tone of confidence, as to their means of justification, to support me upon this occasion, in my endeavour to afford them an opportunity of redeeming their character—of rescuing themselves from a most severe imputation, by voting for that inquiry, which they have so boldly courted. It is due to that noble lord, therefore, it is in justice due to the administration and to the country at large, that inquiry should be instituted accordingly; and, as mercy has been disdained, and even penal visitation boldly challenged, that the scrutiny should not be denied nor deferred.—Before I proceed however, to state the grounds upon which this inquiry appears to me indispensibly necessary to answer the ends of justice—to comply with the wishes, and to vindicate the ho-
174173172171coup de main?170coup de main,169coup de main,168167166165164163162Lord Porchester
viva voce184coup de main,viva voceprima facie183182 could not help admiring the lively manner and animated oratory of the hon. gent. who had just sat down: but doubted much whether his Majesty's ministers had in selecting him, chosen the best general to conduct their defence, or that of the Expedition. That hon. gent. had thought proper to charge upon the noble lord who brought forward this motion, and for so doing was intitled to the thanks of the country, with having acted in an un-candid manner; but that hon. member was not an old member of that House, and that might account for the manner in which he had animadverted upon the conduct and speech of that noble lord. He had himself risen principally in consequence of the hon. gent.'s attempt to hamper the discussions in that House, by the unguarded and unparliamentary manner in which he had introduced the
viva voce184coup de main,viva voceprima facie183182Mr. Bathurst
199198 said that if ever there was a case to be decided on its own merits, independant of all collateral considerations and circumstances it was the
199198Sir Samuel Romilly
200 said he conceived, that, though there was strong presumption of misconduct in some quarter, it would be too much to vote for inquiry without the information which the papers might give. As the production of these papers would lake place very shortly, he saw no objection to accede to the wishes of his
200Mr. Leslie Foster
195194193 then rose and said;—The right hon. gent. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has been pleased to tell this House, that the question they are now called upon to decide is, merely whether it shall proceed to the institution of an inquiry on Friday next, or on the succeeding Monday. That the point for which my noble friend contends, is nothing more than a difference of two days. That however, is not the question. It is far more important; it is, whether this House shall this night do its duty to the people of Great Britain, or wave it altogether through deferential indulgence to ministers. If the right hon. gent. should possess the power to prevail upon this House to adopt this unbecoming course, then, indeed, it is idle to hope, that what the country so loudly demands from one end of it to the other, will ever be effectually carried into practice. Who can hope it? Upon what foundation can rest your confidence? The minister of England, who is himself to be put upon his trial, whose conduct and whose policy are to become the serious objects of that investigation—he it is, who rises up in this House and desires us to suspend our course of proceeding, until he shall have furnished us with the stinted information which he may think proper to impart. Do not inquire, says he, as I myself will lay before you, will tell you all that, in my opinion, you ought to know upon this subject. What, I ask, would be thought of the application, if you, Sir, or any other man in the country, having a violater of the laws to punish for his transgressions, were about to appeal to the courts of justice for redress, but were suddenly called upon to desist from your legitimate course, under the promise, that the man whose guilt constituted the subject of your appeal, had declared his rea-
195194193Mr. Ponsonby
 wished to postpone the question till Monday, when the papers would be laid on the table.Mr. D. Brown
 said, he could not vote for the motion till information had been laid before the House. He did not, however, like to vote for the previous question; for though the previous, question was very well understood in that House, he believed it was not out of it; and he would not wish it to be supposed that by voting against the motion, he was against an enquiry. He could wish that an adjournment of the debate might take place till Monday se'nnight.Mr. Swnner
 said he felt, from the general anxiety spread throughout the country, that an enquiry was expedient; but he thought it was only fair to wait till they had some information on the subject; and so short a delay as that required, certainly could not make much difference. He should therefore vote for the previous question.Mr. Lascelles
207206 was of opinion, that under the circumstances that had been stated, it would be better to postpone any direct motion for Inquiry until the House was in possession of the information promised. This was a deference which, he conceived due to the government. But whatever due to the these papers might be, they would not supersede the necessity of an Inquiry of some kind. Inquiry could not be avoided, it must take place sooner
207206Mr. Canning
 said he used the word authority not in an invidious, but in an ordinary sense; or, in other words, that his hon. friend, if he would allow him to call him so, spoke on the behalf of that part of the service to which he was engaged.Mr. Canning
 wished that the debate on the previous question should be adjourned to Monday se'nnight, and moved to that effect.Mr. Pattison
 warmly denounced this proposition, as another attempt to do the same twick under a different form, seeing, as the right hon. gent. had seen, that, from the temper of the House, the previous question would have been lost.Mr. Ponsonby
 replied, that, as a proof the present motion was not of his instigation, he meant to vote against it. The gallery was then cleared for a division, when Mr. Pattison's motion of adjournment was negatived without a division. The House then divided on the previous Question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to remind the hon. gent. that if he had any objections to offer against the Supply, this was not the stage of proceeding in which it was usual to urge them; that would more regularly be done in a committee of the whole House. It was not in the usage of the House to discuss the motion now offered in the present stage of the business; the uniform practice had been to let this question pass, as of course, without discussion. Having reminded the hon. gent, of what was the usual mode of proceeding generally in practice, it must be for the discretion of the House to consider whether they would indulge the hon. gentleman in any latitude of discussion on the present occasion.The Speaker
 said, the Orders in Council could never have originated with any man conversant in mercantile affairs. The trade was completely shackled; there was hardly a port to which they could sail without a license. He believed there was no partiality shewn, but still it was sufficient to know that the influence did exist. At the board of trade, there was not one, except the vice president (Mr. Rose), who knew any thing of the matter; the rest were lords, lawyers, and naturalists. To say that these Orders in Council were the foundation of our commercial prosperity, was absurd. In fact, they did not exist. The merchants of this country have not been permitted to trade to any country to which neutrals were not also admitted. It was impossible, therefore, that the commerce of this country could have been benefited by the exclusion of neutrals. When the state of the mercantile interests of this country, however, came fairly before the House; when the state of bullion and of exchange were taken into view, it would be seen we had not much on which to congratulate ourselves. It would be seen that we did not enjoy that real health essential to the well-being of commerce.—It was then agreed, that the House should on Monday resolve into Committee of Supply.Mr. A. Baring
 could not, on the present occasion, vote en the side of administration, but as to their general conduct, he Was convinced they possessed great merit, though the nature of that merit was not sufficiently understood by the country (a laugh:) under their auspices, our military and naval glory had greatly increased.Mr. Eyre
 (solicitor general for Scotland,) spoke in favour of the previous question.Mr. Boyle
 was of opinion, that there was a ground of complaint somewhere, and the truth would be obtained by inquiry. He could not, however, think of funning a Committee at that laid hour. (A cry of No! no!) As that was not intended, he would vote for inquiry generally. It was due to the officers both of the army and navy.Mr. Harvey
 seconded the motion. The question having been put from the chair,Mr. Home Sumner
viva voce205 observed with great severity and point upon the manner in which the right hon. gent. had treated the two propositions that had come from that side of the House. The right hon. gent. had said a great deal of their confidence in their own strength, and, of their disappointment on the first night, but he believed that the surprise was with the right hon. gent. at finding himself not in a minority, and the effects of that surprise appeared in the altered manner of the right hon. gent. since. He was now upon his stilts, self-assured, and quite changed from that humble and subdued tone, in which he had on the first night thrown; himself upon the House, and told them that he must stand by his sovereign, where as now he called upon the House to, stand by him. One gentleman under the gallery, in dealing out his compliments on the present administration, had forgot that he was applying to what is, the encomiums he had intended for what had been. The noble lord alluded to was no longer at the head of the war department; and notwithstanding that versatile, variety of powers that had enabled lord Liverpool to take the circuit of all the different offices of the state, yet it remained to be proved that he was as efficient for his present situation as his predecessor. The case of Buenos Ayres that had been cited was not in point; for in that case there had been inquiry; and the unfortunate officer who had had the command of that Expedition had been broke. It had been said that the public, notwithstanding the nature of the previous question, might form wrong notions of it. The public do not technically understand it, but practically they understood it as well as they did in that House, and would think it merely a trick to defeat inquiry. There was no, need of further inquiry before the present motion—the calamity was notorious. What would be the feeling of any man, if upon seeing a man dead with twenty-gashes in his head, and when it was proposed that they should go before the coroner (just what was proposed in the present case), some one should object, "No, no, never mind the coroner—but
viva voce205Mr. Tierney
l.158 was not disposed to give his Majesty's ministers the credit they seemed so anxious to assume for their Orders in Council and commercial licences, as the true source of all the commercial prosperity they boasted in the last year. He attributed this apparent prosperity to quite other causes; namely, to the long exclusion of our trade from some ports of the continent, which when occasionally opened for us, either by the wants of hostile nations, the enterprising spirit of our own merchants, or by the intervention of neutrals, created an extraordinary demand for British commodities for a time; and hence the apparent but fluctuating superiority of the period in question. But how much greater would these exports have been, had the Orders in Council never been issued, to debar us of the agency of neutrals, and had the trade of the country never been shackled by commercial licences. There were, besides, still stronger objections to this licensing system in another point of view, because it laid the commerce of the country at the feet of the minister; and enabled the government to exercise a partial influence for the advantage of those whom they considered their friends, and to the injury of those whom they might view in a different light. He would not positively charge them with such an exercise of their power; but he believed it was pretty well understood in
l.158Mr. Tierney
, it was the mere trick of the minister to get rid of the question, by moving the previous one; and what confidence could there be in a man who would resort to such means to keep himself in place for a few days? It was like a tree which was withered, and a particle of vegetation remained in the roots and throughout a sucker, but the moment it came in contact with the wholesome air, it decayed, expired, never to rise again; so would be the machinations of the right hon. gent, that night; for they would not be allowed to bud, but would be cut off by the, wholesome determination and vote of that House on the division. If they were to get rid of it that night, what pledge did they give, that they would bring it to an ultimatum on Monday?Mr. Henry Martin
 was of opinion, that the House was bound to institute an inquiry; but he thought the consideration of the subject should be postponed to Monday.Mr. H. Smith
197196 said, that if the object of the previous question had been to preclude enquiry, it should not hove had his support, for he thought that an enquiry was proper and necessary to satisfy the country, but that, as the papers would be produced in two days, he should vote for postponing the inquiry for that time. He was surprised to hear a right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham) talk of carrying the motion immediately by acclamation. The greater part of those who had suffered by the guillotine had been sent to it by acclamation.—That right hon. gent. he was sure would never be a convert to Jacobinism, and he should disdain to recommend its practice or to use its language. That right hon. gent. professed to think that because the motion, only implied, that there was ground to put ministers on their trial, there was no need to wait for the promised papers; but he should be sorry to see that hon. gent. on a grand jury, if he thought it right to send a man to take his trial before he heard the evidence, offered in support of the bill of indictment. The livery of London in common hall assembled might with less injustice vote censure against ministers by acclamation or upon newspaper reports; because they had no power to call for better and more satisfactory evidence; but what mighty evil could arise from a delay of two days, such as would justify that House in precipitating a vote without hearing such evidence as was offered for their consideration? If not material to the question whether the inquiry was proper, it might at feast assist them in deciding what mode of inquiry and to what extent they ought to adopt—He could not admit that the
197196Mr. Stephen
159 said it had been remarked, that memory stood in an inverse ratio to wit. The wit of the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Tierney) they had frequent occasion to remark; but this night he had shewn, that he possessed the worst memory in the world. He must surely be seen to have done so, when he had stated that the Orders in Council had reduced;
159Mr. Stephen
181180179178177 rose and expressed a wish that the duty of replying to the noble mover, and the hon. seconder of this motion, had fallen into abler hands; but feeling at the same time, that in the course of the evening he should have to call upon the House to vote against the motion, he thought that he could at no time do it with less appearance of presumption, than when the House was on the point of going to a division. The speeches of the noble lord and hon. gent. though materially at variance in several parts, yet coincided in one particular, as both the speakers thought it would become that House to give a pledge that it would institute an inquiry into the circumstances attending the late Expedition. He had listened to the splendid oratory of the noble lord and the hon. gent. who followed him, with much attention, and with great personal pleasure. But good oratory, like good poetry, might not be the worse for fiction. Ministers had been spoken of as if they wished to elude enquiry and to shelter certain individuals from public justice. Which of his Majesty's ministers, he would ask, could it be the object of government to screen? Could it be the object of the present administration to screen those from inquiry who were no longer members of it? If that were the case, if ministers were so disposed towards those individuals, what became of the taunts and sarcasms respecting that disunion which had been so loudly complained of?—What became of those animosities, and of that hatred which had been spoken of as existing in the late cabinet? The noble lord had asked, why was not the late Expedition sent to the north of Germany instead of Walcheren? If ministers, said that noble lord, had money to throw away on a Dutchman,
181180179178177Mr. Croker
190189188187Chancellor of the Exchequerl.186185 declared himself of the same opinion with the right hon. gent. who had
190189188187Chancellor of the Exchequerl.186185Mr. Fuller
 was of opinion that the Orders in Council were like every other measure of policy—intended to be strict only when they could injure the national enemy, and relaxed when they might benefit ourselves. It was admitted that trade had flourished. It was absurd to conceive that the system which benefited the whole should be radically injurious to the parts. If the body of British merchants were satisfied and grateful, it was idle to say that the individuals of that body were materially injured by the continuance of the system.Mr. Simeon
 was one of those who believed that the worst consequences had resulted from the Orders in Council—the trade was kept alive by relaxations and departures from them. As to the partiality which the system of licenses admitted, he had no doubt upon it; but he was forced to give credit to the assertions of ministers, that no partiality was observed in the granting of them—so far above the ordinary weaknesses of human nature were they. Perhaps, however, he could state instances of the conduct of past times, which did not proceed upon the same liberal principle. He remembered that, in the case of the restraint upon the importation of bark, the ministers granted a license to one merchant, who was a member of the House of Commons, (at least so report said). He did not state confidently that it was so; but if it was, what could be said to ministers who had so conducted themselves?Mr. Whitbread
156l.155 said, he saw upon the votes of the House, that the consideration of the Lord Commissioners' Speech was an order of the day; and he always understood it to be the undoubted right of every member to discuss in any stage, every question proposed in that House for adoption. He did not at present intend to go at any length into the general subject of the Supply; but before the House was called
156l.155Mr. Creevey
 rose and observed, that as a passage in that Speech contained high encomiums upon the flourishing state of the foreign commerce of this country; before he could give his assent to the motion just proposed, he must request leave to ask some questions of his Majesty's ministers, respecting that system to which they attributed this flourishing success; but from which he apprehended consequences the very reverse.Mr. Creevey
 declared that upon such a question and under such circumstances he could not reconcile it to himself to give a silent vote. He was ready to confess that he felt the most anxious wish to support the motion of the noble lord. He was little disposed to dispute about, forms, and as inquiry was his sole object, the sooner that inquiry should be decided upon, the more satisfactory it would be to his mind. He owed it also to the army, officers, and men—he owed it to the commander in chief, lord Chatham—he owed it to himself, as having a command in that army, to declare that he could not gratify them more than by voting for the speediest and most summary effectual inquiry, and he earnestly hoped that that inquiry would be conducted in the most open manner, and on the broadest grounds.General Grosvenor
204 rose to mark the essential difference between the motion itself and the mode proposed for getting rid of it. Every mail in the House, and he believed nineteen-twentieths of the people out of doors, who thought inquiry necessary, did not want those papers to form their opinion on the subject Which, he asked, would be the most important pledge, that of coming to an immediate resolution in favour of an enquiry at the bar of the House, or agreeing to the previous ques-
204Mr. W. Smith
202 said, he was surprised his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have made any oppo-
202Mr. Wilberforce
160 felt it due in justice to his Majesty's ministers, to declare, that in proposing the bill to prevent the exportation of bark, their object was not to prevent the enemy from getting bark, but to oblige them, if they were to get bark from this country at all, to get it with a certain proportion of other articles. He was
160Mr. Wilberforce
192191 said he was disposed, notwithstanding the triumphant tone of the right hon. gent. to retain, in common with his friends, that confidence which they had entertained in their strength the first night of the session. He believed that the feeling of disappointment, mortification and anguish, which the right hon. gent. had attributed to his opponents had a firmer existence in his own mind and situation than in theirs. However, he should still continue to support the motion of his noble friend on the ground of duty. It was the duty of the House also to shew the country, that they were not to be biassed by the seemingly candid declarations of the minister. If ever there was a case which called for the unanimous vote of parliament, the late disastrous campaign was that case. Indeed, in his opinion, the vote ought to be carried by acclamation. It was not necessary to wait for papers in order to determine that inquiry was necessary. The information on which to ground opinion was already before parliament and the country. To be sure, the papers might have furnished an aggravated proof of guilt in some quarter or other, and might shew that the right hon. gentlemen were not chargeable with the whole blame of the failure, but it was unnecessary to wait for documents or proofs to ascertain whether there was calamity and failure. The House did not want them. If, indeed, after it had declared inquiry necessary, the House should proceed to ask for the production of papers, it could not be in order to ascertain whether there was blame, but it would be to know the aggravations of their conduct, or to judge how the instruments employed in the execution were committed, with those, who advised the plans, in the responsibility. To satisfy the House that inquiry was necessary, it had only to look to Walcheren, to consider of the termination of the Expedition, and to contemplate the present state of the army that was sent there. Search the military annals of Great Britain, and there was no precedent of such extensive, complete, and unqualified failure. The greatest possible failure might take place, and still no blame attach any where; but here was an Expedition terminating in great disgrace and
192191Mr. Windham
176175 in seconding the motion of his noble friend, wished to take that opportunity of making a few observations upon the conduct of the Expedition, which appeared to him remarkable only for ignorance, imbecility and mismanagement. The first instance of neglect that struck him, on perusing the papers on the table, was the deficiency of means to carry into effect the attack upon Cadsand, there having been provided no more boats than would be sufficient to land 600 troops, and that at a time when 2,000 men were drawn up on the beach; so that it appeared, that there had been transports provided by the wise planners of the Expedition without boats, and soldiers sent without provisions. The consequence was, that though the batteries had commenced on the 5th, the enemy had been able, without molestation to throw a body of 3 or 4,000 men into Flushing across the Scheldt, before the communication with Cadsand was cut off. Upon the 15th of August, Flushing capitulated, but between the 15th and 24th, when the head quarters were established at Bathz, he lost sight of the commander in chief. There was no evidence of any active exertion, or indeed, of any adequate preparation for the accomplishment of the ulterior objects of the Expedition during that most important and critical period. He begged here to observe upon the ignorance in which the commander in chief had gone forth; for on the map he was supplied with, Bathz was laid many miles west of its actual position. As to the general policy of the Expedition, he had but few observations to make. It had two objects according to the views of its framers: one solely British, the destruction of the basin at Flushing, and the capture of some sail of the line. In that, however, it had failed. We had ransacked some stores, it was true, thrown in the basin, and destroyed a sea-wall; but we had also entombed one half of our gallant army. It had been said that the capture of Antwerp was an object of the Expedition, but he would ask any one who had considered the conduct of Buonaparté, since he had been under the view of the world, whether he thought it likely that he would have left Antwerp, the object of so much of his solicitude and care, in an unprepared state? The next
176175Mr. Windham Quin
 spoke Strongly in support of the motion for inquiry.Sir G. Warrender
201 —It is impossible for me, Sir, to give a silent vote upon this question, after the declaration of the hon. general who has just presented himself to your notice. He very confidently assures you, that he is obliged for his own sake, for the sake of the army and the noble lord who commanded it, to vote for inquiry. The same motives demand of me that I should, in the strongest and most explicit manner, press the House to go into the most minute inquiry into the conduct of the navy; and I am perfectly convinced, that such a course would be very congenial to the feelings of the gallant admiral who commanded that fleet, whose whole life has been tissued with
201Sir Home Popham.
 declared, that in what he said, he spoke under the influence of no authority, as the right hon. gent. insinuated, but from his own feeling?Sir Home Popham
 rose to rescue himself from the imputation of wishing to defeat inquiry, by voting for the previous question, which did not negative investigation, in proposing to delay it until the papers were before the House.Mr. Gooch
203 said, he rose to give his assent and support to the motion. (A laugh from the opposition side.) He did not know what gentlemen meant by that; but he would have them to know, that he gave his vote on all occasions, in as independent a manner, and with as free and
203Sir W. Curtis
 did not think that the circumstance to which the noble lord adverted arose from any neglect in the collection of the taxes in Scotland. The difference between the estimated proportions, he rather thought, arose from the increased prosperity of England, from which the taxes produced much more than was expected. He was sure that in Scotland they did not think themselves favoured in the collection; for he had been called upon to attend to representations of a certain description of persons there, who were of opinion, that the proportionate burthen upon them was heavier than it ought to be.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that when any money for that purpose was moved in a committee of supply, the right hon. baronet would have an opportunity, if he thought fit, to move an, Address to his Majesty against its application. There was no pledge whatever given on the part of the House, because the Address was voted, or the present motion carried, to agree to the carrying on the war in Portugal, or for any other purpose.—The motion was then agreed to, and the House resolved itself into a committee of supply, and resolved that a supply be granted to his Majesty.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that there was one thing rendered obvious by this conversation, which gave him great satisfaction, and that was the particular anxiety which was, at this time, manifested about the opinion of their constituents. That misrepresentation ought to be corrected, there was no doubt, and as little was it to be doubted that, if wilful, it justified the notice of this House: but at the same time, it was proper to remark, that the remedy was not so difficult as some seemed to imagine; for any one had the opportunity of correcting misrepresentation, if not in any other way, at least by mentioning it in the House.Mr. Ponsonby
217 did not know what there was in the present state of affairs that should make it matter of so much exultation to the right hon. gent. that members should be anxious about
217The Chancellor of the Exchequer
218 observed, that he had never said, that there was no inconvenience in misrepresentations. On the contrary, he said, that if wilful, they deserved punishment; but that the difficulty of correcting them was not so great as
218Mr. Ponsonby
 was sorry that he had stated what fell from the right hon. gent., in a sense not intended, but still maintained, that the mode which he pointed out for correcting misrepresentation, was not that which best became the dignity of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to complain of a Breach of Privilege. In perusing the Minutes of the Court Martial upon lord Gambier, he observed an official letter from the Admiralty to lord Cochrane, a member of that House, which he considered as an undoubted breach of privilege. Lord Cochrane having intimated, that he intended to oppose the vote of Thanks to lord Gambier, the Admiralty issued directions to his lordship in the letter to which he alluded, to state the grounds on which he meant to make that opposition. This, then, was a letter conveying an official direction to a member of that House to state the grounds by which his conduct in that House was to be governed. This, too, was put upon record, by warrant, upon the minutes of the Court-Martial. He did not know how there could be a more direct violation of the privileges of that House. He concluded by moving, as the ground of his complaint, for the order of the 7th of June, for trying lord Gambier, and for the letter of the 29th of May, addressed by the secretary of the Admiralty to lord Cochrane.Mr. C Williams Wynn
 observed, that as these papers were moved on the ground of a breach of privilege, it would not be proper to refuse them; especially, as he saw no public ground for withholding them. But, he believed, that the hon. gent. would, when the papers were produced, find it difficult to contend with success, that this was a breach of privilege. He thought, on the contrary, that nothing was more consistent and proper, than that the admiralty, finding that his lordship, who had distinguished himself so much in the attack on the French fleet in Basque roads, intended to oppose the Vote of Thanks to lord Gambier, should desire his lordship to state his reasons for his opposition, in order to ascertain whether those were grounds for any proceedings against lord Gambier. But he would defer his opinion till the papers were produced.—The motion was then agreed to.The Chancellor of die Exchequer
 seconded the motion. On the question being put,Sir Francis Burdett
226 said, he could not content himself with giving a silent vote on the present question. The noble lord who made the motion had, in his opinion, cast a severe reflection on the court and on the witnesses. He knew every member of that Court Martial; and he believed they were officers of as high honour and character as the noble lord. He also knew the witnesses; and he believed them in the highest degree worthy of credit. He himself had been a very strong witness against what had been done by lord Cochrane. (A cry of order!) He begged pardon: he found he had unintentionally transgressed a rule of the
226Captain Beresford
 agreed with the hon. general, that the House ought not to take upon itself the revision of such sentences on light grounds; but still the proceedings Courts Martial were liable to revision in in the House, as the court of dernier resort. This doctrine was laid down in Mr. Adye's book on Courts Martial; and there was an instance of such revision in 1744, when the sentence of a Court Martial on capt. Norris was decided by this House to be partial, arbitrary, and unjust. Besides, there might be in the Minutes of the evidence abundance of matter to justify the House in withholding the high honour of their thanks, though no actual blame may have been incurred by the noble admiral.Mr. Lyttleton
 observed, that it had been argued by ministers, and he thought justly, on two late occasions, that the House ought not to come to any vote till they had the papers before them, as this would be a kind of censure, and without documents. The very same arguments applied to this case; and it appeared to him equally necessary that the Minutes should be produced, before they could come to a Vote of Thanks. This also he conceived equally necessary to the character of lord Gambier himself, and to his deriving any satisfaction from a Vote of Thanks.Mr. Marryat
228 said, he did not rise to negative, but to amend the motion of the noble lord. As to the question which was to follow, namely, the Vote of Thanks to lord Gambier, it might be necessary to produce the Sentence of the Court Martial, but there was no occasion for the Minutes. In the two instances cited by the hon. gent. who had just sat down, of ministers having asked the House to wait for information, there was a very material difference from the present question; and it did not require the acuteness and distinctness of judgment so peculiar to that hon. gent. to point it out. In the case of last night, a subject was before the House which they could each of them easily determine on his own knowledge; but in this case, an investigation had already taken place, before a tribunal competent to the subject; and certainly the House would not think of calling for the Minutes, in order to question the conduct of
228The Chancellor of the Exchequer
230229 observed, that the preceding speakers had saved him the trouble of proving the right of the House to interfere with the sentence of a court martial. The question therefore now related solely to the propriety of such an interference in the present case. If to prove the propriety of such an interference he would wish to cite an extreme case it would be the present. The noble lord had pledged his character in the most explicit manner, that, in the Minutes were produced, he would prove that the court martial had acted partially, and that lord Gambier was not deserving the thanks that were intended to be moved in his favour; and he thought it it was impossible to believe the noble lord would do so, without being able to fulfil what he had promised. The right
230229Sir F. Burdett
231 said, the question was not as to the right of the House to call for the Minutes, but whether it was necessary to do sounder the circumstances of the case. This was not, as the hon. bart. had represented it, a case where the noble lord came forward, and stated reasons, as consisting with his own knowledge, for withholding the vote of thanks from lord Gambier; but, on the contrary, one where, in consequence of insinuations thrown out by the noble lord, a court martial had already been held on lord Gambier, and he had been honourably acquitted; the charge, or rather insinuation, thrown out against him being totally unfounded. He regretted the noble lord should esteem it a part of his duty to adopt the part he had taken after the decision of that court martial, on which all the evidence was wholly at variance with his ideas. He regretted that a gallant officer, who, undoubtedly, had rendered great service to his country, should have esteemed it necessary to set up his own opinion and experience against the opinion and experience of so many others. The hon. bart. was
231Mr. Yorke
 did not deny that there might be cases in which the House might feel itself called on to interfere, even in cases of court-martial. Here, however, all the evidence was on one side, and opposed to it the solitary opinion of the noble lord. Had the noble lord stood uncontradicted, he might have called on the House to interfere; but this was not a case of that kind. The blame here seemed to be in the admiralty ever directing the court martial. They ought to have known that there was no charge; for when they applied to the noble lord for his charge, if he had any, he referred them to the Log books which it was their duty already to have perused, and which, therefore, they must by that time have been prepared to say, instead of inferring blame, warranted them in bestowing thanks. He was sorry to see the thanks of that House bestowed with too little consideration, so as greatly to lower the value of that distinguished honour. He should hardly have thought this a case in which they ought to have been granted, were it not that their now withholding them might seem to countenance the present charge.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 saw no just ground for the present motion. It carried with it a serious matter of charge against the members of the court martial, and almost every witness who had been examined, and that, too, on a subject in which the noble lord would not find one man in the profession to agree with him.Lord Newark
 felt himself called on to explain his former opinion. He had reminded the House of a precedent for the revision of courts martial; but in stating this fact he merely wished to bring a new authority in support of the privileges of that assembly. He conceived that the sentence of a naval court was not in the full sense of the word, definitive. In the military law, an appeal lay from a court martial to his Majesty's courts at Westminster: he concluded that there must be found a similar check on a court of naval officers. In voting for the motion he pledged himself to nothing; he had not yet found materials for his opinion, and he was satisfied to pause till he had found them.Mr. Lyttleton
244243 in pursuance of his notice, rose to propose a Vote of Thanks to lord Gambier for his eminent services in destroying the French fleet in the Basque roads. In doing this he conceived it would be unnecessary for him to take up much of the time of the House in detailing the services which the noble lord had performed, as from the nature of the debate just concluded, they were in possession of every information they could desire. He might fairly anticipate that the House having judged it inexpedient to produce the Minutes of the court martial, would not be anxious to listen to any arguments in support of the motion which he was about to submit. It had, however, been stated by some gentlemen, that the nature of the service was not such as to justify the House to vote its thanks to the noble lord. But when the nature of that service was known and considered, it was impossible that the House could come to any other conclusion than a Vote of Thanks. The conduct of lord Gambier on that occasion was so eminent that even those who were most disposed to object to thanks being voted on ordinary occasions, and who grounded themselves on precedent, would not find any for withholding them from commanders in chief when with the force placed under them they achieved any great service. The Sentence even of the court-martial was itself a proof that the service was performed in such a manner as to deserve thanks; he had not merely superintended the enterprise, but had, as the Sentence affirmed, conducted it with a proper regard to the interest of the state, and with peculiar zeal for the good of the service. The execution of the service deserved, therefore, peculiar notice, and he would shortly detain the House by stating some of the circumstances attending the accomplishment of it. The French fleet had escaped from Brest on the 23d of March; they were seen by admiral Stopford, who had at that time three sail of the line, and some small frigates going into Basque roads. The French fleet consisted of eight sail of the line, and several frigates. Admiral Stopford gave the sig-
244243The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
235 could not agree to vote for the motion of the noble lord, and for this reason, because the adoption of it would be a violation of one of the most sacred and fundamental principles of the jurisprudence of England. My lord Gambier had been tried by a competent jurisdiction, and acquitted. He could therefore scarcely imagine any thing more dangerous to the lives, property, and liberties of Englishmen, than that a man should be tried a second time for the same imputed offence. Could a man who, for any offence, had been put on his trial in another place, and acquitted, be again tried for the same offence? Certainly not. If a man was accused of the highest crime the law takes cognizance of, viz. conspiring with others to murder the King, and should be acquitted; if it should turn out afterwards that other circumstances than had been adduced on the trial could be proved, was it to be endured that he should be again tried? He could not be
235Mr. Ponsonby
246 desired to know whether the service of lord Gambier was worthy of the thanks of parliament, admitting it to have all the value that could be attributed to it, by any thing but the unblushing and profuse spirit of ministerial favouritism. He would ask whether, on the other hand, there was not the full and decided testimony of a man adequate to give his judgment, and of whose admirable valour and good fortune the House and the nation had but one opinion. He felt that in making these remarks, he might be treading on perilous ground. He was probably bringing upon himself some charitable remarks, particularly those of a gentleman, whose charity was of a very peculiar nature. But he was careless about such remarks; he deprecated that person's charity; he would not shun, he would rather solicit his hostility. Had there been any thing said to make out a reason for the vote which was demanded of them on that night? Where was the evidence of intrepidity or skill, of that boldness which bursts its way through all obstacles; of that genius before which obstacles vanished? For all this they were only insulted with a dry catalogue of negatives, and an account that the noble, admiral inspected the action at a distance of seven miles. The question had been treated lightly; but levity was unbe-
246Sir Francis Burdett
219 observed, that when an
219The Speaker
 thought the House was entitled to have the mistake, if any existed, cleared up. He himself had been struck with the circumstances adverted to by his noble friend; and though he had no official information on the subject, he was informed by good authority, that the deficiency in Scotland arose from a tardiness in the collection. There might, however, be a particular description of persons who might have reason to complain.Mr. Horner
225224223222221220 rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:—Sir; Painful to me as it is, to present myself to the
225224223222221220Lord Cochrane
(F.)240239238A.A.A.A.A.237236 then addressed the House in reply, as follows;—Mr. Speaker; Some remarks that have fallen from gentlemen on both sides of the House, call upon me for explanation.—And first the hon. gent. below me, has asserted, that it was my bounden duty to have brought forward, myself, charges against lord Gambier, if I thought his conduct censurable.—I must tell that hon. gent., that I adopted the mode that, under such circumstances it was my duty to adopt. I did not presume to frame charges founded on my own opinion, of the transactions that had passed in Basque roads.—I did not deliver charges: but when I found that a vote of thanks was to be pressed on this House,
(F.)240239238A.A.A.A.A.237236Lord Cochrane
245 warned the House, that even its verdict was not conclusive upon character; that, there was another tribunal to which even that House was amenable, and that the public would exercise a judgment, if the House would not exercise one. He still required to know what part of lord Gambier's exploit deserved the thanks, or what had been his exploit. He lay at a distance; he never brought his fleet into the place of action, or of danger; and yet he was for this supineness to receive the highest honours of the country. The ground of ministers was childish and frivilous; that in truth where the subordinates deserved praise, the superiors must receive it. Was admiral Parker thanked for his bravery at Copenhagen? But the public would take the question into its own hands. The public would read the Minutes, though the House might not; the public would judge from the facts, though the House
245Lord Cochrane
241 thought it would be wrong for that House to disturb the past acts of
241Mr. Tierney
 remarked, that the only proper way of correcting misrepresentation, was by notice or complaint in that House. Members could not enter into controversies with the conductors of newspapers.Mr. Bankes
 did not object to the publishing of lists of names, but to the misrepresentation of gentlemen's motives in a sweeping and general way. For instance, in one of those papers, under the head of gentlemen who voted against Inquiry, his own name was inserted; whereas he had distinctly stated in his speech on that night, that although he voted against, the specific motion then in debate, no man in that House was more anxious for Inquiry than himself; and yet this part of his speech was never given as counteractive to the general statement in the list that he voted against Inquiry.Mr. H. Lascelles
233 said, that he had endeavourde to follow the noble lord in his speech, but could not bring him to any one point. The noble lord would have done no more than his duty, if he had been in possession of those circumstances which he had detailed this night, in making them the subject of proceedings against Lord Gambier. What, however, had been the conduct of the noble lord? On the contrary, instead of making a direct charge, he had merely contented himself with referring the admiralty board to the log-book of his own ship for information. The board of admiralty therefore in acceding to the wish of the noble lord, for an enquiry into his conduct with respect to the attack on Basque Roads, had done
233Mr. Croker
227 called upon the House to consider well what they were about, be-
227General Loft
234 thought the noble lord did wrong in returning any answer to the application of the Admiralty. He ought to have told them that, as a member of the House of Commons, he had no answer whatever to make: and if they had thought the logs inconclusive, why did they not manfully come down and try the question in that House. The hon. gentleman talked of the injustice of trying an officer in that House. Must not the merits of every officer be inquired into when it is proposed to confer on him a Vote of Thanks? Was he not then on his trial? Was not this a species of trial to which every officer, before he could receive the high honour of the thanks of parliament necessarily must by exposed? But, after a court-martial, which ought never to have taken place, had declared lord Gambier to be honourably acquitted, did it follow, as a matter of necessity that they must grant him the thanks of
234Mr. Whitbread
 expressed his surprise at the offence taken at the remark that members were particularly anxious at this moment about the opinions of their constituents. It had always been imputed to them, that, towards the end of the six years they were more anxious than at any previous period of their existence on that point. As to the particular subject in question, he himself might complain, when he found an editor leaving out his speech altogether, and inserting that of the right hon. gent., which was an answer to it, giving his, however, the next day. There were, unquestionably, misrepresentations; but he maintained, that, from all the papers, an accurate estimate might perfectly well be formed of the speeches and conduct of members of parliament; and as for the speeches of the honourable member for Yorkshire, they would speak for themselves, and, he believed, that they were given in a manner sufficiently accurate to convey, upon the whole, a just impression of his conduct, though he had nobody to take care of him. A more innocent breach of privilege, than that of printing speeches or names, there could not be, if properly executed. But as to the marks, or asterisks, pointing out the members who represented counties, or populous places, this could hardly be called a breach of privilege at all. During the 20 years he had sat in the House, he never saw a misrepresentation, which, on the whole, he did not think had better be let alone, than be made matter of complaint in that House, and this, certainly, was one of the very last cases of misrepresentation that ought to be visited with severity.Mr. Whitbread
l. could not conceive how the produce of the Income Tax should be 11 millions in England, and only 600,000l.Lord Mahon
213l. rose to ask a question of the right honourable gentleman. He said that at a time when the weight of the taxes was so severely felt by the people, it was very important that they should he equally distributed over the country. He had been much struck by observing in the finance accounts of last year, the very small proportion which Scotland contributed to the revenues of the country, though that able financier, Mr. Pitt, when he imposed the income tax, had estimated the taxable revenue of Scotland, to be one-eighth of that of England. Instead however, of proving productive to that account, the produce of the permanent and annual taxes in England amounted to more than thirty-nine millions, while the amount of them in Scotland was little more than three millions. In the total amount of the war taxes the disproportion was equally apparent, for, whilst in England they amounted to twenty millions, they did not in Scotland exceed one million. The total amount of taxes was in England above 59 millions, and in Scotland very little more than 4 millions. The property tax in Scotland produced only about 600,000213l.Lord Mahon
 thought that so far was it from being a breach of privilege to publish the names of members who voted on either side on any important question, that in king William's time, (not the most unfavourable period to freedom and parliamentary privilege in this country), the thing was constantly done by order of the House: and he thought such a practice highly necessary to the people of England, who would thereby be enabled to see who those representatives were who did their duty, and who did not.Mr. Creevey
215 rose to call the attention of the House to a species of misrepresentation of what passed there, contained in the newspapers—a misrepresentation which was certainly highly indecorous. The misrepresentation of which he complained was this:— In the Morning Chronicle newspaper for Friday last two lists of members were published, the one having this title, "A List of the 263 members of parliament who voted against pledging the House of Com-
215Mr. Manning
216 observed that it had been the usual practice to publish the names, and it was a practice which he wished should be continued. But then it ought to be conducted with some accuracy. In this respect he himself had to
216Mr. Wilberforce
232 thought if the House wanted any additional inducement to vote their thanks to the noble lord, they had them in the words of the sentence of the court martial. The present motion was peculiarly important, as it went to throw a gross stigma on the characters of the whole of the members of the court martial, as if they were totally ignorant of their professsion, and forgetful of their own reputation and of the cause of truth and justice. All the evidence, however, was one way. If the sentence had been conceived in dry or doubtful terms, then the House might have called for the Mi-
232Mr. Wilberforce
247 having doubts on the vote which he should give, would wish to state what they were, but still more strongly what they were not. He was adverse to the revisal of the decisions of courts-martial; but the Vote of Thanks forced him to put himself to the trouble of thinking a little. He thought a motion for papers on such a subject was unnecessary; the thanks of that House did not deserve to be lavished on any man, unless his service was of that rank which forced itself into universal report, and universal admiration. It was not to be evolved in some obscure process of official chemistry; not to be drawn out from under bundles of obscure records; not to be elicited by any keen, cunning, recondite, subtilizing process, beyond the practice or perception of the general mass of mankind. To be praised it must be known; to be matter of thanks it must be matter of publicity. He then adverted to the instance of sir Home Popham, in which he accused the conduct of the admiralty, as taking away its effect from the sentence of a court-martial, by conferring situations of confidence on him, subsequently to his having received a reprimand. Lord Gambier never came into the action. This was admitted by all the evidence, yet this should not throw a stain upon him. It was not his place. The aspersion thrown upon him for sparing the lives of his men was idle. It was the highest praise of the first military characters that they saved blood. Great commanders hated the unnecessary waste of human lives. They were careful of their men, and it was their proudest boast that they accomplished their victories without the unnecessary expenditure of a single soldier. But in voting thanks it was time to pause. Their old rewards were become worthless. It had been said, that nothing was left but the peerage, and even the most lavish disposal of that high honour; they gave it away by two steps at once. This was the natural process where there was no distinct scale of merit and reward; but it was time to stop. They had in their hands the great provision for national virtue; they had the honours of the country intrusted to them, and it became them, as legislators, not to suffer its streams to be idly diverted, nor
247Mr. Windham
 said, if his information was correct, the fault that more damage had not been done to the enemy's fleet, lay with the noble lord (Cochrane) himself; and if the Minutes of the court martial were produced, he should engage to bring evidence to that effect before the House. If the noble lord had followed the advice of a senior officer, in reserving some of his fire ships, he would have been able to destroy all the ships of the enemy. When with the explosion ship the noble lord gave the signal, those who observed his orders did not succeed: and those who did not observe the signal, but were more deliberate in their proceedings, were successful. Those officers who disobeyed the order to fire the ships had been promoted, and those who obeyed the order had not been promoted.Sir C. Hamilton
 Mr. Speaker; I rise to declare my opinion, that admiral lord Gambler is as fully entitled to the thanks of this House as any commander in chief could be for the performance of a service such as that we now deliberate upon; and therefore, as thanks to his lordship have been proposed, I shall vote for them. Sir, I entertained this opinion of lord Gambier's conduct in the service alluded to before the prorogation of Parliament, and their lordships of the admiralty appeared to do the same. I could not, therefore, but much regret the cause which prevented the proposition for thanks being submitted to parliament when first intended, as at that time the service was fresh in the recollection of the community.Sir John Orde.
 spoke nearly as follows:—Mr. Speaker, I cannot content myself with giving a silent vote on a question that so materially affects the vital interest of the profession to which I have the honour to belong. Sir, I do not comprehend the object of the noble mover in calling for those Minutes to be produced to this House. Is it the intention to try lord Gambier again, or to put the members of the Court Martial on their defence, who had been appointed to try his lordship? If it is, what, in God's name, would be the situation of officers in the navy? If these are not the objects, what then are they? It has been said, that the Minutes might justify the acquittal of lord Gambier on a charge for life or death, yet that they might shew him not to be entitled to the thanks of this House;—surely, Sir, an. investigation of them for this purpose would savour more of persecution than of justice. Lord Gambier's conduct, in the affair of Basque-road, has already been investigated before two competent tribunals;—first, before the board of admiralty; and, secondly, by a court martial, composed, I will venture to say, although not acquainted with all its members, of as honourable men as any country or any service can boast. To try his lordship after this, or here to try the merits of the court martial, I think would be as unjust as injurious to the service, and consequently I shall give my vote against producing the Minutes, unless some reasons shall be offered in support of the motion very different from any yet submitted, or any that I can anticipate.Sir John Orde
214 said, he conceived the present a fit opportunity to offer a few observations to the House on the subject of Supply. In the speech of the lords commissioners, a strong intimation was given, that it was still intended to carry on the war, in Spain and Portugal. The House had been told, that in voting for the Address in answer to that Speech, it was not pledged upon this subject. He decidedly protested against pledging this country, burthened and borne down as the people were with taxes, to carry on a war in a quarter, and upon a scale which, while it must be ruinous to our resources, was utterly hopeless as to any ulterior object; and, if after all the miseries already brought upon the country, by the endeavour to defend Portugal (Spain having been, as he understood, now abandoned),
214Sir John Newport
 thought he had upon a former occasion voted against several of the members whom he personally knew and esteemed, yet he was of opinion, that the names of the Committee should be the same as last session, unless some reason could be assigned for removing any of them. But his hon. friend appeared to wish to have the Committee all his own way. This was not a political or a party question. As persons on the same side may differ as to the means of carrying a common object into effect, he could see no inconvenience that would arise from appointing persons of different opinions upon the Committee.Mr. Bathurst
265 contended for the right of naming the Committee still being in his right hon. friend, out of whose hands the hon. gent. had attempted to lake it. To pass by the gentlemen of the last Committee, would be condemning
265The Solicitor General
 expressed his readiness to defend himself and the other members of the last Committee from any charge that might be made against them.Mr. Dennis Brown
 said, fortunately there was no man for whom he had a more sincere friendship than for the gentleman now named. It could not be supposed, therefore, that he opposed his name standing on the list for any other reason than because he was not one of the last committee.—He proposed that instead of the name of Mr. S. Bourne, there be inserted the name of Mr. Hawkins Brown.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 answered, that a discovery had been made, merely by accident, that drafts had been issued to a considerable and unusual amount upon the Bank of England, by an officer in the Ordnance department. The discovery was made on a Saturday; and it was thought right to send, on the Monday morning, orders to the Bank forbidding the payment of any drafts drawn by that officer. The Board of Ordnance immediately instituted an inquiry on the subject; but no result had as yet taken place, which rendered it necessary, in their opinion, to lay any statement before the House. The officer in question, to say the least of his conduct, had acted in violation of the orders established for the regulation of his department. He had since resigned his situation; and it was found, upon the inquiry which had already been instituted, that the public were not likely to sustain any material loss. The matter was at present under minute investigation by the Board of Ordnance; and the subject would be ultimately referred, without delay, to the Commissioners of Military Inquiry.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared himself so far satisfied with this explanation.Mr. Calvert
de die in diem,de die in diem248 took occasion to ask, whether, with a view to give every possible expedition to the proposed inquiry, there was
de die in diem,de die in diem248Lord Porchester
 was of opinion, that it would be extremely imprudent to prescribe beforehand what course it might be deemed expedient to pursue in the prosecution of the inquiry alluded to. He apprehended that it was the general wish to get rid of it as soon as possible. But the idea of settling at once the precise days upon which it should be gone into, under any circumstances that might arise, seemed to him quite inexpedient. The discretion of the House, upon this head, must be regulated by the circumstances, which might arise in the course of the inquiry.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
249 repeated his objections to the arrangement alluded to. The House would be quite able to determine on Friday, whether the subject should be resumed on Monday, or any other convenient day, and, no doubt, the House would not lose any time upon this important subject. Upon Friday some debate might arise as to the course proper for the committee to pursue in prosecuting
249The Chancellor of the Exchequer
258257 said, that this was a subject which had been so frequently before the House, that he did not think it necessary to trouble them at much length in expressing his sentiments. It was almost impossible that any novelty could now be produced on either side; and the hon. gentlemen who had preceded him, appeared to have done ample justice to the side of the case which they supported. He felt himself however called upon to state his reasons for differing in opinion from them; and he must in the first place recal to the recollection of the House that he had never yet given any opposition to the principle of the bill, on the ground of its being likely to affect the royal prerogative. With regard to economy, and its tending materially to lighten the burthens of the people, he always stated that he could not see any of those great advantages which its supporters, and a considerable part of the public, expected from it; but, with respect to the royal prerogative, he had always stated, that he thought its tendency was rather to increase than diminish it. He did, however, always consider, and still thought, that very exaggerated notions of the advantages, of this bill had gone abroad; and that many persons had been deluded into an opinion that the public burdens would be sensibly diminished by its operation. That it could
258257The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose again and said, that although he felt it his duty to state his sentiments, yet, if he perceived the strong sense of the House to be the other way, he would not press a division.The Chancellor of the Exchecquer
259 said, that the right hon. gent. had passed over all that had been urged by the hon. member in favour of his motion, and dwelt wholly upon that which needed no refutation. That right hon. gent. had observed, that the argument against reversions, as affecting the public economy, was the weakest of all the objections that had been made, and yet the right hon. gent. had over-looked all the other objections, and confined his observations to the weakest of them. He would ask that right hon. gent. how numerous were the offices which would not now be in existence but for those grants in reversion? The difference in the expenditures between the departments where the proposed regulations had effect, and those where they could not act, was known to be most considerable, and was there no reason to suppose, even from this circumstance, that if the bill proposed should pass into a law, it would not, in its ultimate operation, materially affect the public economy? but he thought the influence derived from those grants of still more importance than the effect of their suppression upon the public economy. Was it nothing to deprive the crown of its legitimate influence by deferring its exercise to future times, and compelling the minister of the day to look to other sources to supply those whom they were to support? Must not the House feel the effect of adding to the public burthens in that way? He agreed with the hon. mover, that it was wrong to delude the people by holding out exaggerated expectations of retrenchment, which could not be realized. He thought it mean and mischievous in
259Mr. Ponsonby
l.l.,262261260 could not conceive, if the grant of reversions were at all a matter from winch inconvenience was found to result, why it should not be at once abolished. There never could be any advantage in a temporary law on this subject. What would this be but to confess, that the principle of granting offices in reversion was bad, and yet that there would be an accumulation of such offices to be granted by a minister all at one time; thereby adding to, and in-
l.l.,262261260Sir Samuel Romilly
 said he did not mean to give any opposition to the Committee being formed, but he trusted that the House would pause before they gave their concurrence to the formation of a Committee so different in its principle from that in the preceding years. He wished members from all parts of the House to compose it, that they might the more easily discover the truth, from the different views which they might take of the same subject. He then proposed that the Committee should consist of twenty-one persons, and that the following six gentlemen should be added to fifteen of the members of the former Committee: The Hon. Mr. Ward, Mr. Peele, Mr. Giddy, Mr. Pattison, Mr. Charles Dundas, Mr. Howorth.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 freed the hon. gent. from any idea of wishing to controul the Committee while he was chairman of it. He did not expect much from the Committee as it was last constituted; and he thought that after three years had elapsed from its first appointment, it was time some of the recommendations of the Committee should at last be carried into effect.Lord A. Hamilton
250 stated, that he saw many other points to which it would be proper for the House to direct its inquiry, as well as those mentioned by the right hon. gent. namely, as to the time occupied in fitting out the Expedition, the manner in which it was fitted out, and the period at which it sailed. On these several heads there were various matters in circulation, which demanded inquiry. But, with regard to the first point stated by the right hon. gent. it might, no doubt, be very proper to appoint a private committee to receive an article of secret communication made to ministers, previous to the undertaking of this unfortunate Expedition. That, however, was a question which had no concern with the application of his noble friend, or with the other points referred to. Ministers were not required by his noble friend, or any one who thought with him, to publish any thing which ought to be kept secret. They were simply asked to give to the purposes of the inquiry as much of the time of the House as the necessary attention to indispensable public business would allow. It was not supposed that the promise of any individual
250Mr. Tierney
viva voce wished that some understanding should be established upon this subject. All his noble friend asked was, that this important inquiry should be allowed to go on without interruption unless some very pressing business should interfere. When business of that description should occur, his noble friend could, of course, have no wish to impede it. But as things now stood, his noble friend's request was one to which he could not conceive a reasonable objection. Indeed it appeared but fair that it ought to be acceded to, when it was considered that a good deal of viva voceMr. Tierney
255254253252 rose in consequence of his previous notice, and moved, That the bill of last session for suspending for a limited period the granting of Offices in Reversion, be read; which being done, the hon. gent. said, when he rose the other day to give notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill to make perpetual the act which had just been read, he had not the slightest idea, that there would be any thing like opposition made to it. It was with infinite surprize and concern, however, he heard his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) declare it was his intention to shorten the duration of the prevention by bringing in a bill of his own for its continuance only one year longer. What reason his right hon. friend could have for taking such a course, he could not even pretend to guess; but whatever it might be, he hoped and trusted it would not operate on the mind
255254253252Mr. Bankes
263 then said, he should use but a few words in prefacing the motion he should have to submit for the re-appointment of the Finance Committee. He was sure that there was not a gentleman in the House who would wish to oppose the re-appointment of this Committee. He should therefore first move that a Committee be appointed, and then he should submit the names of the gentlemen he had to propose, as likely to form an effective Committee for the purpose for which it was established. It was material for the House to consider to what sort of persons they delegated such a duty, for the object in view could never be attained, if the House did not make a proper choice of the members of whom the Committee was to be composed. The former Committee was too numerous, and the gentlemen were of jarring sentiments, so that no progress could be made. He proposed, therefore in the first place, to limit the present Committee to fifteen instead of
263Mr. Bankes
, in explanation, staled, that he had never arrogated to himself the right of dictating to the committee; nor thought of nominating those only who would agree with him, upon it. It was impossible for any gentleman to look at the list he proposed, and assert, that the gentlemen upon it were persons who would submit to receive his dictation.Mr. Bankes
 explained that no charge was made, except the impossibility of his hon. friend's supposing that they could act cordially together after several of them had shewn a disposition to withdraw themselves.Mr. H. Thornton
256 seconded the motion. Although he felt the great respect which was due to the other House, yet he considered that it was the peculiar province of that House, as guardians of the public purse, to consider of measures which tended to lighten the burdens of the country. He conceived that it might be possible that the Lords should be somewhat too precipitate in the rejection of any thing which might appear to invade the royal prerogative; but still it appeared, that any thing which regarded the expenditure of the country came more naturally under the controul of the House of Commons. It was true, that many important improvements had been introduced of late years and that in former periods of our history, the power of the crown was
256Mr. Henry Thornton
 observed, that as there were certain confident rumours afloat, that a very considerable Defalcation had been discovered in the accounts of a public officer in the Ordnance Department, he rose to enquire of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether those rumours were founded; and, if so, whether the discovery was accidental; and whether the subject had been referred for further investigation to the Commissioners of Military Inquiry?Mr. Calcraft
 was of opinion that the Committee had not hitherto done its duty, in not bringing forward a measure for the abolition of the three sinecure places which they had already brought forward. He hoped they would yet do their duly, and that every honest man of every party would support him in the general motion on this subject, which he should, have to bring forward in a few days. He thought the best mode of adjusting the list would be, for the honourable mover and the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take man and man each.Mr. Fuller
l.l.:l.:d.s.l.d.s.l.l.251d.s.d.s.l.l.l. rose for the purpose of moving the Estimates of the Navy. The hon. gent. then moved—"That it is the opinion of the Committee that the number of seamen to be employed for the year 1810, be 130,000 men, including 31,000 marines," which was agreed to. He next observed, that it was necessary to follow up this vote with the usual vote of wear and tear, which the Committee would recollect embraced the wages and victuals of the number of men voted. He had to observe, that the amount voted last year was 11,900,000l.l.:l.:d.s.l.d.s.l.l.251d.s.d.s.l.l.l.Mr. Robert Ward
 considered the grant of reversions as productive of more evils to the public service than the grant of sinecures. He should be at all times ready to support every prerogative of the crown, that did not militate against the interests of the subject, but in the present case he did net think the prerogative materially affected. He thought the principle of the bill would in its ultimate operation have a beneficial effect upon the public economy, and so far as it was possible for the human mind to prejudge the result of its own intentions, he thought there had been few cases in which it might, in every point of view, calculate so fairly upon a prosperous issue, as in the probable consequences of the bill proposed.Mr. Davies Giddy
264 was not surprised at the wish of the right hon. gent. that the Committee should be composed of discordant materials, as he had given the House a sample of the happy effects of disunion in his discordant cabinet. He had an objection even to the list of the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes), because it contained no member either for Scotland or Ireland.
264Sir John Newport
 said, he did not rise to object to the motion of his hon. friend, as he was not yet prepared to say, what had been the revenue produced under the operation of the 48th of the king. He was, however, apprehensive, that if the limitation of distance should be extended to 40 miles, it would, instead of amending the act, have the effect of abolishing the tax altogether. He thought it better for the House to wait until the statement of the produce revenue derived under the act should be before them. It was a tax of that nature which more particularly affected themselves, and therefore they should be cautious not to evince any impatience to remove it. His hon. friend had laboured under a mistake in confounding the introduction of the bill with the passing of it; it had been passed in a late period of that session, but not introduced at a late one.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to put a question to a noble lord opposite. He wished to know if that noble lord intended to move the next day to go into a Committee upon the Expedition to the Scheldt.Mr. Yorke
 replied in the affirmative.Lord Porchester
 then said, that he took that opportunity of giving notice, that in case that Inquiry should be gone into the next day he would proceed to enforce the standing order of the House, for the exclusion of strangers. This he did not from any wish to keep their proceedings from publicity in due time, but with a view to guard against the possibility of any misrepresentation or misunderstanding out of doors before the Minutes should be published, a precaution that appeared to him necessary to be taken before they proceeded to an Inquiry to be carried on in the manner in which they had determined that important investigation should be conducted.Mr. Yorke
274 thought it in the first instance necessary, that the House should with all convenient dispatch possess itself of every possible information upon this very important subject. He had not hastily formed his opinions upon it, but, however confident he might feel in the justice of these opinions then, he should defer stating them till the House should be better enabled to come to some conclusion. He acknowledged, that if it were his in-
274Mr. M. Dorrien Mugens
275 did not rise to oppose the motion that had been made With so much ability. He would, however, venture to suggest his difference of opinion, with respect to one or two points. First, he confessed he could not understand, how the reduction of the bank of England paper could affect the price of bullion. He thought, that they must consider gold as an article of trade; and if a guinea, that is, the quantity of gold coined into a guinea was worth, at Hamburgh, more than 21 shillings, no reduction of their home circulation of paper currency could affect the rate or the value of bullion in the foreign market, which rate or Value was to be ascribed to other causes. They were to look to the extent of the wars so
275The Chancellor of the Exchequer
276s. agreed with the right hon. gent. that the quantity of paper money in circulation had not occasioned the scarcity in bullion so justly complained of; but at the same time, he could not admit, that bullion had increased in value all over the world in the same proportion as it had done here. All the evidence which by acceding to the motion would be laid on the table, he was satisfied would throw no light on the subject; and the question would be found at last wholly to depend on the difference in the rate of exchange against us in the different markets, being from 20 to 35 per cent. Every person who could carry a guinea over to the continent, would receive 28276s.Mr. Marryatt
277l.l.l.s.s. thought the papers moved for might be of some service in correcting theories of the different gentlemen, which, in his opinion, were radically wrong. He did not, however, say, that the papers themselves would be sufficient to enable the gentlemen to form a fair judgment on the subject. The difficulty, he suspected, would be found to be in the state of the trade of the country. Undoubtedly, a paper circulation did expose the country to have the rate of exchange turned against her whenever the trade was against her. In sir W. Temple's time, when this country wished to grant a subsidy to the bishop of Munster, it was found impossible to do so, because we could not send the coin in which it was to be raised. This could not affect our paper; but if in the present change of circumstances it were resolved to make an exertion, we must send our paper abroad for the purpose of raising the money, this must immediately produce a depreciation. A guinea, at this moment, brought 26277l.l.l.s.s.Mr. Baring
280279278, in rising to move the Thanks of the House to lord Wellington and the officers and soldiers under his command, for the skill and valour, so eminently displayed in the battle of Talavera, could not refrain from expressing painful regret at the symptoms of opposition which were incidentally manifested in that House, and which had previously been manifested elsewhere, He was the more grieved at this opposition, because he thought it could not he denied that the action for which he was about to move their thanks, was one of the most splendid that had ever graced or distinguished our military annals, that had ever shed lustre upon the British arms. Whether they considered the numbers, the bravery, or the discipline of the enemy, the more would they be inclined to think highly of that consummate skill and conduct, and that invincible intrepidity which obtained a victory over them. It was not a victory such as they saw gained by the French over the raw levies of unarmed Spanish peasants, but a victory over the veterans of France—men bred to war, inured to hardships—accustomed to conquer, and led by the most able generals of that country. At the present crisis, too, he hoped gentlemen would consider the necessity of establishing and maintaining the honour, encouraging the spirit and rewarding the services of our gallant army and its commander. When he reflected how desirable it was to cherish the military spirit, by bestowing on ability and valour the due meed and reward, he could not help again looking
280279278The Chancellor of the Exchequer
295294293292291290289 said, he was sure it would not be considered extraordinary by the House, that he rose, upon the present occasion, to offer some remarks. It was impossible that he should not feel, in common with the House, the weight which any objections must have in such a case, when coming from an hon. general, who must be supposed to carry all those professional partialities about him, which would disincline him from obstructing, without strong grounds indeed, the honours of a distinguished brother officer. It was impossible not to hesitate, when the gallant general in the discharge of a public duty felt himself called upon, not only to refuse the thanks of that House to lord Wellington, but even to lend his countenance to the attempt to convert a vote of thanks into the heaviest censure that could be passed upon a most meritorious officer. He must protest in the outset against the practice of referring to the operations of a whole campaign on a question confined to the merits of a single but glorious and memorable action. But whilst he thus protested against such a principle, he felt that he should be doing great injustice to lord Wellington, if he omitted to enter upon the consideration of the whole campaign, the merits of which were such as to reflect the highest honour upon that noble officer. In April, lord Wellington found himself at the head of 25,000 men in Portugal. His instructions
295294293292291290289Lord Castlereagh
 vindicated the military character of lord Wellington, and said they might as well accuse him of not being able to answer the first question in the catechism, as of ignorance or precipitation. He had displayed, on the contrary, the greatest skill, though his plan had not succeeded to the utmost extent, owing to Sebastiani's corps not having been detained by Venegas. The Spaniards had not taken his advice as they ought. He was a most consummate general, and deserved the greatest honours the country could bestow.General Craufurd
 wished to make a few remarks on one or two points touching the Conduct of the battle of Talavera. Lord Wellington had projected an attack on the army of Victor on the 23d, which, had it been acceded to by general Cuesta, must have terminated in the annihilation of that corps. On the 24th Victor retreated, and was pursued as far as Olala. On the 26th the Spanish army retreated to the left bank of the Alberche, and then it was that the dispositions made by lord Wellington not only secured the subsequent glorious victory to his own troops, but preserved the Spanish army. It had been observed that lord W. did not expect the battle; in the first instance he did not: how could he when Victor had retreated? It was the Spanish army brought them back upon him, and then his presence of mind furnished a barrier to every difficulty. As to his personal conduct he could only say, that he was every where during the fight, and always in the hottest of the action; and in expressing his approbation of the motion, he was sure he but expressed what was the general feeling of the army.General Stewart
 concurred in the vote of thanks; but asked, what would have been the situation of the army, if ministers had given the same kind of discretion to a commander of a less enterprising and active spirit?Mr. Lyttleton
301 said, he was aware that the vote he should give would not be consonant with the feelings of the House. He knew little of military affairs, and he believed the major part of the House were in the same situation; yet they were the persons who were to approve or disapprove. He did not wish, at that late hour of the night, to enter into the merits of the battle of Talavera; but this he knew, the British troops fought, and were not able to maintain their ground. He thought the victories in Egypt and Maida were sufficient to establish our military fame,
301Mr. Ponsonby
 felt it impossible to conceive why assent to the motion should be withheld. On no other provocation, than that government had called on the House to speak the sentiments of gratitude which warmed almost every heart in the country, the House was required, through the medium of the proposed amendment, to censure the noble lord whose conduct was the subject of discussion, and to pronounce him, instead of the exalter of the honour of his country, the wanton waster of her best blood. He lamented the loss that had taken place in the battle of Talavera as much as any man; but war was a game that could not be played without risks and losses. It had been said that the House had been too prodigal of their approbation in recent times. We lived in an age so full of splendid achievements, that it was feared the spring of honour might be dried up. This was indeed a source of high exultation, and one in which he trusted the country would long have to indulge.Mr. Canning
 supported the amendment.Lord Folkestone
288287 never rose with feelings of more pain than on this occasion; because he meant to oppose the vote of thanks to a brother officer. He begged leave to begin his speech by saying a few words of himself. He had been attacked with the foulest obloquy, for the part he had taken with respect to the Vote of Thanks for the battle of Vimiera; but he could assure the House, that his conduct in that instance had been, as it would be in this, dictated by feelings of duty and a love for his profession. Lord Wellington appeared to him to have advanced into Spain upon his own responsibility; and he would ask any hon. gent. who heard him, whether he had acted the part of a prudent general in having done so? It was obvious that his object was to have moved upon Madrid; because Joseph Buonaparté would not have brought his body guards to support Victor, nor left Madrid with a hostile population and without any adequate force to keep down that population, if not for the purpose of covering his capital. General Junot had done the same, when he advanced against sir Arthur Wellesley in Portugal. When lord Wel
288287General Tarleton
 spoke in favour of the question.Mr. C. Adams
268l.l.l. rose, pursuant to notice, to submit a motion to the House, for leave to bring in a bill to amend the 48th of the King. In apportioning the duties upon stamps on bills of exchange, the fair principle had ever been, that the rate of the stamp should vary according to the amount of the bill. All those bills were, however, exempted from this equitable principle, which were drawn upon a banker ten miles distant from the residence of the drawer—a former act had provided that a penalty of 20268l.l.l.Mr. Giles
272271270 pursuant to notice rose to move for a variety of accounts and returns respecting the present state of the circulating medium, and the bullion trade. He expressed a decided opinion, that it was necessary for the House to make an Inquiry into the causes of the present high price of bullion, and the consequent effect upon the value of the paper currency, not only on account of the real importance of the subject, but in consequence of the great misconceptions which too generally prevailed respecting the causes of the actual situation of the country with reference to this subject. The most effectual mode of investigating this highly interesting question would be by a Select Committee, and it was therefore his intention on an early day to move for such a Committee. But it would be not only convenient but indispensable, in the first instance, to obtain all such information on the whole of the subject, as papers might afford; which information could afterwards be referred to the Committee. He would not adopt the opinion which prevailed among some people, that the high price of gold, and the depreciation of paper, (for depreciation in a certain sense it was) were to be ascribed to the number of country banks; for the better their nature and operation were understood, it would the more clearly appear, that they formed an essential part
272271270Mr. Horner
 said he could not but compliment what he might call the philosophical speech of the hon. mover. He thought the subject deserved to be maturely weighed, and that every effort should be made to trace the present unfortunate state of the currency to its true cause; which he believed to be the excess of paper issues.Mr. G. Johnstone
286285 passed a high encomium on the eloquent display of talent, which had been made by the hon. gent. who spoke last. It was the first time that gentleman had spoken in the House, but he had evinced an ability and energy
286285Mr. Matthew Montagu
284"And keep their governors from blame.""To pot the rabble in a flame,283 rose to second the amendment. The hon. gent. commenced a maiden speech of considerable ability, by expressing the high respect he entertained for the military talents and character of lord Wellington. He was ready to admit, that the country was already indebted to that noble and gallant officer for many great and signal services; and that it might justly look up to him for the performance of still more eminent services hereafter. But whilst he was thus forward to do justice to the general military merits of lord Wellington, he felt himself conscientiously bound to vote against the original motion, because whatever distinguished military talents may have been displayed during the action, he must ever condemn the temerity which had exposed a British army to the dreadful alternative of a conflict against a superior force, or absolute destruction, in a precipitate and disastrous retreat: before he should proceed more immediately to the question he felt it necessary to notice an insinuation, which had been thrown out by the right hon. gent. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that the gentlemen on this side of the House were actuated by party motives on this occasion, and wished by refusing the thanks of that House to the general, to cast a reflection on the ministers who had employed him. If private honour and a sense of public duty could not secure them against such a bias, motives of prudence and policy would; because unquestionably nothing could more effectually lower their characters in the estimation of the public, or degrade them in their own, than such a surrender of every principle of justice and generosity to the purposes of party. When he looked to the circumstances of the action, he could not contemplate the extraordinary valour of the army without admiration; but in proportion as he admired the firmness and bravery of the army, he was bound to give way to regret, that it should have been not only unprofitably employed but unnecessarily exposed. Lord Wellington might have learned more discretion from the experience of sir John Moore's incursion into Spain; he might have derived salutary information from the recorded opinions of that great and justly lamented general; he ought to have been prevented from a precipitate advance into Spain with another British army by the example of the disastrous consequences, and unfortunate circumstances of the retreat to Corunna.
284"And keep their governors from blame.""To pot the rabble in a flame,283Mr. Vernon
 said, the most important fact to ascertain was, what was the real price of bullion. The number of notes of the bank of England in circulation might vary; so might country bank notes; the amount of the paper in circulation, therefore, could not enable the House to form an accurate judgment upon the subject; the price of gold alone was that to which the circulation of the country ought to conform. The bank of England paper, however, was that to which parliament should most particularly attend; for the directors of the bank of England might, by reducing the value of their paper, compel the country banks to do so likewise. It had been said, this evil had a natural tendency to correct itself, but it had not yet corrected itself. It was well known that nobody could get gold from the bank of England.Mr. H. Thornton
 approved of the motion, and vindicated the country bankers from the objections made to them by an hon. gent. (Mr. Davies Giddy.) He thought them a source of great commercial convenience in as much as their own notes they always changed for bank of England notes, and it was not to be supposed that they could have got them without a due equivalent.Mr. Patteson
 gave his most hearty concurrence to the vote of thanks to his noble friend; and added that he was proud he could call him countryman, whose glorious and great achievements he could only compare to those of marshal Lannes.General Montagu Mathew
298297296 congratulated lord Wellington that he had found such an able panegyrist as the noble lord who had just spoken, and the noble lord himself, on the display of eloquence he had made, which, if not contradicted by the dispatches themselves, might have amounted to a defence of his own conduct while in office. He (Mr. W.) was not one of those whom the noble lord had described as too vehement in lamentation; at the
298297296Mr. Whitbread
273 thought that this was a subject which, like many others, had been industriously wrapped up in a sort of mystery that did net belong to it. If it was looked at through the plain medium of common sense and reason, it would appear by no means the involved and abstruse question it was generally thought to be. The fact appeared to him to be sim-
273Mr. Davies Giddy
300299 observed, that the arguments he had heard did not divest him of the opinion, that the battle of Talavera was a glorious victory. Honourable gentlemen on the opposite side spoke of feeling: he believed, when the victory was first announced in this country, there was not a man but. gloried in it. He was afraid we had got too much military special pleading, that would argue merely on the result, not the valour and generalship shewn. It put him in mind of a story of a wag, who was asked, how he came by a visible fracture on his face? "Why, I beat "him, and he beat me, but I gave in
300299Mr. Windham
302 rose, amidst a loud call for the question, and said a few words in avour of the Vote of Thanks.302Sir T. Turton
281 said that though he entertained a high opinion of the gallantry of lord Wellington, and notwithstanding this was called a glorious victory, he felt him-felt under the necessity of proposing an amendment to the motion that had just been made. He could not consider the battle of Talavera as an isolated question, but as connected with other important topics, and the general policy and conduct of the campaign. It was not his wish to anticipate future debates, by entering into detail—and the more particularly, because he felt his incompetence to form an opinion on military topics; yet he could form an opinion, in some measure, from the event of the campaign. No one felt more strongly than he did the services, or was inclined to bestow higher praise on the valour of our troops; and he also agreed with the right hon. gent. on the necessity of encouraging their military spirit by every incitement that the approbation of that House or the gratitude of the country could supply. But he did not think this was the way to do it. They had got into the habit of voting thanks on all occasions, and it was now almost an insult not to vote them. From their frequency their Votes of Thanks lost their value, and ceased to be any longer an honour or a reward. When he looked to the result of the campaign, he saw that it was not attended with advantages, but on the contrary was highly disastrous to the country. He must take into his consideration, before he voted thanks, how it was that sir Arthur Wellesley found himself compelled to fight the enemy: it was not sufficient to say, that he got out of danger with great skill, He should have the same ability in avoiding it. What thanks would the House bestow on an admiral, who first ran his fleet among rocks and shoals, and then evinced great skill and ability in getting them off again? Yet, the case of sir Arthur Wellesley was precisely similar, he had imprudently brought his army into a critical situation —he was forced to give battle. He was attacked by the enemy; and while, in the general orders, it was styled a decisive victory, followed by a precipitate retreat, it appeared from our general's own dispatches, that the enemy retired in good order beyond the Alberche. What could his Majesty's ministers have meant by blazoning that battle in such terms of
281Lord Milton
 then called on Mr. Lushington to take the chair; andThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said it had been the uniform practice of the House, of late years, to have the office of Chairman of the Committees of Supply and of Ways and Means filled by one individual, who continued during the course of the session, and accordingly a salary was annexed to the performance of that duty. He believed there was not an instance to the contrary on the journals. He also contended, that when the House was about to resolve into a Committee of Supply, not into a Committee of Ways and Means, was the proper time for agitating who that chairman should be. This question had, however, he submitted, been already settled, when Mr. Lushington was, on a former day, called to the chair of the Committee of Supply. No change in such an appointment ever took place in the course of one session. If this House did not observe a uniform practice in this respect, it would become an every day discussion. He accordingly moved that Mr. Lushington be called to the chair.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it was not long experience, but a sort of technical knowledge which was required for the situation. He was satisfied the hon. gent. (Lushington) was fully qualified for it.Mr. Wharton
 was sorry an hon. gent. (Mr. Hobhouse) could not be prevailed on to return to the Chair of the Committees. As the other hon. gent. also chose to decline it, he begged of his hon. friend not to press his amendment.Mr. Ponsonby
306 before he moved the order of the day, rose to give notice, that on Monday he would move for certain papers, which he thought were necessary to render those already before the House complete. In those before them two or three objects were named as those proposed to be obtained by the Expedition; while one part of the force was to be stationed as a garrison in Walcheren, the other was to proceed to accomplish such of the ulterior objects of the Expedition as might appear practicable. But could it be thought, that when the Expedition sailed, that no plan, no instructions, save those in the general orders, were given? From the papers before them it appeared, that a very few days after the noble lord opposite had stated that in consequence of the seasonable fall of Flushing every obstacle to the accomplishment of the ulterior objects of the Expedition was removed, the whole of those objects were abandoned. Could it be thought that the general had received no instructions in the interval to influence his conduct? He was of opinion that such communications must have existed, and as they were not produced, he must consider those papers before the House as defective
306Lord Porchester,
307 took the earliest opportunity of promoting the inquiry. When that subject was adverted to before he was unfortunately absent, and nothing had been said till then that could justify him in coming forward with that information it might be in his power to give. He was then prepared to state, that the War office did not contain all that was necessary to give the noble lord the information he required. It was impossible for persons employed on such a service to act wholly from documents, and all the information that could be derived from documents would not proceed from the war department; it would be his duty hereafter to state where such information might be found. The inquiry, it would appear at the outset, naturally divided itself into two branches, and he wished to know to which the House first proposed to direct their attention. With respect to the policy of the Expedition, but a comparatively small portion of information could be derived from papers that might be laid before the House. Those considerations which influenced his Majesty's government would have some weight with them when deciding on the policy of the measure into which they were about to inquire. He would have to consider if the country was so circumstanced that such an effort might be made without too much impairing our resources. The presumable expence was also to be considered, and whether the calculations had been exceeded. The situation in which we stood with our allies was also to be remembered, though that consideration, with respect to Austria, might be too delicate a subject to be openly discussed; but of that his Majesty's ministers were the most competent judges. The House was probably not aware of the great extent of evidence necessary to enable them to decide on the policy, and to judge of the grounds on which the late Expedition was undertaken. He should feel it to be his duty to call for such documents and such evidence as might be required, as the inquiry proceeded. He supposed from the evidence the noble lord had summoned, that it was his intention first to proceed to the execution of the Expedition. If that were the case, and if the policy or expediency of the measure were
307Lord Castlereagh
 said, that as it might not be possible to separate the policy from the execution he proposed to go by time. Beginning with the subjects connected with the documents of the earliest date, he thought they might commence with the policy, proceed with the conduct, and close with the evacuation of Walcheren.Lord Porchester
308 thought the orders of the
308Sir F. Burdett
 wished to know if the commander in chief of the Expedition had been instructed to proceed immediately to Antwerp, or if it was part of his orders to besiege Flushing first?Mr. C. Wynn
 knew of no instructions but those given under the sign manual.Lord Castlereagh
 was of opinion they might be referred to a Secret Committee, who could decide what papers ought to be produced. He then gave notice that on Monday he would move for the appointment of such a Committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
309 was anxious to give the Inquiry the greatest possible effect. He had formerly suggested the propriety of referring the military evidences to other tribunals, and he gave it as his opinion that it would have been better so to have done. He would state, in a very few words, what he thought it would be most becoming the House to inquire into. There were three points to which he thought their attention should be directed. The first was the policy of the Expedition. This was the most extended question, since it comprehended the situation in which Great Britain was placed with the other powers of Europe. For this he felt himself in the highest degree responsible. The military and naval proceedings, though he viewed them with the most favourable eye, he could not think himself responsible for. He did not consider himself at all answerable for the evacuation of Walcheren at the same time,
309Mr. Canning
 now moved the standing order for exclusion of strangers, which was of course enforced, and the Gallery cleared.*Mr. Yorke
 immediately returned to the chair, and said, that now was the time to propose who should he chairman of the Committee.The Speaker
303 said, if one gentleman should be called to the chair of the Committee, and another should be proposed
303Speaker
 begged to inform the House, in point of order, that if a difference of opinion arose on the subject of who should be called to the chair, it could not be discussed in that incomplete state in which the House then was.The Speaker
 said, he thought those who had the sense of the House in their favour had a right to determine in what manner the inquiry should be carried on. He was for appointing a Committee that night that no time might be lost.Mr. Tierney
 thought any papers that it might be necessary for them to have produced could be moved for in the Committee.Mr. Tierney
 gave notice that he should on Monday move for certain papers relating to the Expedition; which had been omitted in the returns laid on the table. These papers would serve to make the whole complete, in order to a proper understanding of the question so far as related to the share which the admiralty board had in the Expedition.Mr. Croker
305 expressed his extreme sur-
305Mr. Giddy
 after vindicating himself from the charge of attempting to take the House by surprize, agreed to withdraw the amendment, when the House resolved into the Committee, and Mr. Lushington was called to the chair.Mr. W. Smith,
 said, he did not know how else to conduct himself, a gentleman being about to take the chair without any question put to the House.Mr. W. Smith
304 said, if in what the right hon. gent. had stated to have happened, the convenience and dignity of the House had been as much attended to, as he had no doubt its rules had been consulted, the House would have heard nothing from him at present on the subject. The sole reason he had for objecting to the hon. gent. proposed was, that, however respectable in every other particular, he did not possess those qualifications to be looked for in a Chairman of the Committee of Supply, or of Ways and Means. Experience was the qualification principally required. The first chairman he recollected was Mr. Gilbert, a gentleman of great experience; the next was Mr. Hobart, an old member, and also a gentleman of great experience; the next was Mr. Hobhouse, whose recal to the chair would be attended with great advantage to the House; to him succeeded Mr. Alexander, who had held the same office in the parliament of Ireland; and
304Mr. W. Smith
 called on Mr. Davits Giddy.Mr. W. Smith
 addressing himself to Mr. Ley, the clerk, begged to say a few words to the House.Mr. W. Smith,
 hoped the House would not adopt the motion. The House had heretofore appointed a Committee of inquiry, who had done their duty by proceeding on the investigation referred to them, and reporting the result to the House, leaving it for the House itself to adopt any measures thereon that might appear eligible to its wisdom; but without giving any opinion of their own, as to what places ought or ought not to be abolished. He trusted that the House would not now send back the subject to the present Committee, or delegate any power of giving any opinion on it; but that the House would act by its own discretion. The hon. member (Mr. Bankes) had signified his purpose of proposing some resolutions on the subject. He himself had others to propose; but he was decidedly against delegating any such duty to a Committee as that now proposed. The former Committee had done its duty. Its report was before the House, and it was for the House to adopt any procedure thereupon it should deem most filing.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose pursuant to notice, and after a few preliminary observations, moved, "That there be laid before the House copies of dispatches from Mr. Erskine to Mr. Secretary Canning dated the 3d and 4th of December, 1808; and also copies of dispatches from Mr. Erskine to Mr. Smith, dated in August 1808."Mr. Whit-bread
in toto314 declared, that as no inconvenience was now likely to arise to his Majesty's government from the production of those papers, he had not the slightest objection to their being laid upon the table. He was not in the House on a former night when mention was made of a dispatch, relative to which some difference of opinion had originated. A question had arisen between Great Britain and America with respect to the propriety of ratifying the agreement into
in toto314Mr. Canning
 thought it his duty to declare, that the instructions were observed neither in substance nor in spirit.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
315 moved for the appointment of a Secret
315Lord Porchester
 as a noble friend of his (lord Castlereagh) was so intimately connected with the subject under inquiry, proposed that he should have leave to attend the Committee.Lord C L. Cower,
 could by no means see the necessity of this; he had indeed himself obviated any such necessity, by nominating the noble lord's own secretary, Mr. F. Robinson.Lord Porchester
316 could not see what occasion those who were deeply interested in the event of the inquiry had to interfere with any future proceedings of the Committee. All they had to do was to see, in the commencement, that this Committee was so constituted as to do perfect justice between man and man. Of all propositions, then, which he had ever heard started, that of admitting the noble lord to attend the Committee was, in his opinion, least deserving of consideration. With respect to the number of which the Committee was proposed to be constituted, he could find no objection; but he had, indeed, much objection to make to the members who had been put in nomination to compose it. In this list he observed five out of the nine were gentlemen who had been in the constant habit of voting against the measures of government on every occasion. One gentleman who had been nominated was unable to attend on any Committee. To the three next, Mr. Robinson, Mr. Bathurst, and Mr. Wilberforce, he could have no objection: they were neither in the habit of directly voting with or opposing government; but he would ask, for that very reason, were they proper to be confronted with, the other five, who were in steady
316The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared it his intention, in case Mr. Wilberforce was suffered to remain on the committee, to nominate Mr. S. Bourne next; but Mr. Perceval persisting in his intention to divide the House, strangers were ordered to withdraw. The only division that took place was, on the names of sir John Sebright and Mr. Yorke. For Mr. Yorke, 196, sir J. Sebright, 128. All the rest were agreed to without any division.Lord Porchester
 said, the Committee might certainly take what steps they thought proper; but he considered the proposition in its present shape as perfectly novel.The Speaker
320 thought the question before the House a very narrow one; it was simply, in the first instance, whether there should be any committee appointed
320Mr. Hobhouse
 supported the committee as amended.Mr. Burton
317 allowed, of course, that to any member of the Committee who was deemed objectionable, an objection might be taken; but he believed it was perfectly novel to see one of the accused, over whom an impeachment hung, venturing to step forward and make choice of those whom he thought fit to select to inquire into his conduct. It was a much more extraordinary proceeding than any of those at which the right hon. gent. affected to be so much astonished. He had never, known an occasion before, on which the nominator of the Committee had not the unlimited appointment of his own Committee, and on which he might not, if he close, nominate his own friends. (A laugh.) Gentlemen might laugh; but he would ask those opposite, when was there ever a Committee appointed by government, on which ministers did not select their own adherents? at least, on which they did not take good care to secure the majority? On the present Committees all were not chosen of the same way of thinking. In that case, indeed these might be some show of objection; but here there was barely sufficient to turn he
317Mr. Tierney
313 expressed his hope, that if the House had confidence in the Committee it would not fetter them by any such instruction as that proposed; because such an inquiry must occupy their whole time during the session, and postpone every other object of their pursuit. Each office would make of itself a separate case for inquiry, and the Committee could not be called on to recommend the abolition of any particular case, without accompanying such recommendation with the documents upon which it was founded. In fact, it was quite impossible for the committee to proceed with any effect in such a purpose, without coming, in the first instance, to some declaratory principle as a foundation for their subsequent proceedings such, for instance as
313Mr. Bankes
 said, it was an opinion very generally maintained by the former Committee, that if sinecure places were to be abolished, some other means must be devised for remunerating public services; as in numerous cases which would occur, the mere salary annexed to a place would be inadequate, and therefore it was suggested, that although some might be abolished, others ought to be retained.Mr. Leycester
318 was not a little surprized to hear that the nomination of the jury was to be at the disposal of the prosecutor. It was, indeed, not only a singular, but a preposterous assertion. If, as had been said, an impeachment was hanging over ministers from the result of this inquiry, why should it be conducted by men who had declared, that their object in the inquiry itself was to turn ministers out of power? To "get rid of them," was
318Mr. Stephen
 replied, that since he could not carry this instruction to the Committee, who had an hundred times better means than he had to ascertain the truth, he should bring forward a bill, in which he would name all the sinecure places enumerated in the report to which he had alluded, leaving it for the House to retain or abolish those they thought fit. He would not allow so important an object to be defeated by a side wind; and, shame upon England, if the bill should be rejected.Mr. Fuller
312l. rose to bring forward his promised motion, for an instruction to the Finance Committee, to inquire and report respecting Sinecure Offices which they should think necessary to be abolished. He began by stating, that he found in the third report of the Committee on public expenditures two paragraphs, stating, that amongst other items which called loudly for economy and retrenchment, were a great number of nominal offices under the crown, to which a very large sum was annually paid in salaries, but which partook of the nature of pensions, because no duty was done in lieu of the pay annexed. Of such places it was stated, that there were no less in England than 196, for which an aggregate sum of 142,655312l.Mr. Fuller
 hoped, as the right horn gent, had declared Mr. Erskine guilty of disobeying his instructions, he, on the production of these papers, would be competent to verify his assertion. For his part, he held a very different opinion, and pledged himself to shew, that the substance of the instructions were strictly observed; and then the question would be reversed, and the right hon. gent. would have to shew why he ran counter to the instructions which he had himself dictated. He did not mean to speak from authority on the subject; but he had heard, that if the dispatch marked No. 1, had been produced, it would have set matters in a totally different point of view. He was happy, however, that the affair was about to be candidly examined, and had little doubt it would appear, that Mr. Erskine had wisely observed his instructions.Mr. Whitbread
in limine,319 was disposed fully to allow that the learned gent. who had just sat down, had, indeed, argued well and quoted aptly: there was only one trifling objection to both his arguments and his quotations, and that was, they were not to
in limine,319Mr. Windham
 seconded the motion.Sir F. Burdett
334 said, he must protest, as long as these Standing Orders continued in force, against the supposition, that there was any necessity for a member who should move to enforce the Order, to account for the reasons which induced him so to do. He had felt it to be his indispensable duty to move the Order on the present occasion, from a consideration of them any misstatements, which went forth to the public last year on a very important inquiry before that House. Having stated this, he would remind the House what it was that they were about to do, in entering into any such inquiry as that in which they had been recently engaged. It was no less than performing their great function as the grand inquest of the nation. The grand jury of a county, which was the common inquest, never admitted strangers to be present during the time of their examining evidence. How, then, could it be thought an unwarrantable use of their undoubted privilege, to exercise it at a time when the House was employed in its inquisitorial functions?—With regard to misrepresentations, could gentlemen see nothing of inconvenience, of mischief in the effects of such misrepresentations, forwarded daily throughout the country? He thought this a consideration in itself of no ordinary importance. A right hon. gent. had asked, why they had
334Mr. Yorke
, in explanation, said, that he had not lent himself at any one period to any vulgar cry, nor had he said that any such influence ought to have weight with an honest representative of the people in discharging his duty to his constituents. But he well remembered when the right hon. gent. was in office, that that right hon. gent. and his colleagues urged, as an objection to the opinions of certain gentlemen, the unpopularity of those opinions, when they were even threatened with the consequences of that unpopularity.Lord Folkestone
 professed himself unable even to guess at what the noble lord alluded to. Had he any charge to prefer against that noble lord or any other person, he should do it openly, and go through it steadily, but as to threatening any hon. member, he hoped he knew too well what became the gentleman to do so.Mr. Yorke
 rose, amidst a cry of "Order! spoke!" to state more particularly the circumstances. At the time of the Peace of Amiens, he and others who disapproved of that peace were told of the great unpopularity of objecting to that measure.Lord Folkestone
333332 felt compelled to declare the reasons which influenced him to depart from the opinion that he formerly held, in common with his right hon. friend who had just spoken, as to the inexpediency of allowing the publication of the proceedings of the House of Commons.
333332Lord Folkestone
 supported the motion, and conceived that the Committee of Privileges might easily find out a way of having correct reports published by authority, of whatever passed in that House, without excluding strangers.Mr. Lyttleton
 began by noticing the forbearance of many gentlemen to take a part in the debate, from whom he might have expected to hear the ablest defence of the liberty of the press. He must subscribe to many of the doctrines which he had heard from the right hon. gent. because they were constitutional, and which he only found fault with as inapplicable to the present situation of the country. If he could see in that House a body of gentlemen fairly and freely selected by the people as the chosen guardians of their rights—if he could see no placemen or pensioners within these walls, and if no corrupt or undue influence could ever be supposed to operate on the minds of any of the members of that assembly, then, indeed, he should see no particular objection to the inquiry being conducted in secret, and the evidence being given to the public in the manner that was now proposed. Unfortunately, however, the case was different and the House stood in the eye of the public, in a very opposite situation. They stood before the country under circumstances of great suspicion. It had been considered by some, that in point of character they were on their last legs. As for his part, he greatly feared that in reputation that House had not a leg to stand upon.Sir F. Burdett
 rose to order. He stated, that in his opinion it was highly disorderly to assert, that the reputation of the House of Commons had not a leg to stand upon.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 continued. He had not made the assertion positively, but stated it as his apprehension. But with all due submission, he had not expected such nicety, when he recollected the 11th of May last, and the acquittal of a minister detected in an attempt to introduce, by corrupt means, persons to seats in that House. He had not expected such extreme delicacy from an assembly that had last sessions passed an act by which they stood acknowledged as contaminated, and that by an act of parliament. He felt it his duty, whilst he continued a member of parliament, to speak the truth, and the whole truth, in that House; but, at the same time, he knew he must speak it in a manner agreeably to the order of the House, and conformably to those principles of common decency which gentlemen must observe in every assembly. He could not, however, imagine, that any attention to order would oblige him to suppose such an extreme degree of affectation of purity, as that we must not allow our ears to hear that, which we were not ashamed to do. The motion before them branched into a three-fold point of view—with respect to their former situation, the present practical effect of the enforcement of these orders, and also the particular case. As to the first, what became them formerly to do was not the question now, for they were no longer what they had been then. In the other two points of view, he had no objection to the motion. A right hon. gent. (Mr. Yorke) had stated that he was not bound to give any reasons for his motion. As this was his opinion, it appeared to him, that he would have done better in not attempting to give any. He had not specified any particular inconvenience which resulted from strangers being present at the last inquiry. Misrepresentations it was true, had been vaguely complained of, but none had been specified. Inconveniences resulting from the publicity of their proceedings on their inquiry into the duke of York's conduct had been also complained of—but he asked, did no advantages result from that publicity? He thought many had. He had at that time read the minutes, and had seen the daily reports, and he never detected an inaccuracy; indeed, he thought the reports in general given with remarkable accuracy, and with considerable ability.Sir F. Burdett
 was sorry that he had not had an opportunity of stating the grounds of his vote before the right hon. gent. had proceeded to his reply. The right hon. gent. had asked, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's ministers to pass this question over in silence, and shelter themselves under the opinions delivered by the right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham.) He was ready to admit, that in most of what had fallen from that right hon. gent. he entirely concurred, though he was not prepared to carry his concurrence to the full extent of that right hon. gent.'s opinion, if, as he understood him, it went to the exclusion of strangers altogether from the House. But he thought it necessary, for the dignity of that House, to maintain the privilege, that any member could call for a vote without argument for the exclusion of strangers, whenever such a measure should appear to him to be necessary; and this was the ground of the vote he should give on this question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that it was highly disorderly for any member to say that the House of Commons had lost its reputation.The Speaker
 agreed to withdraw that part of his motion relating to the oaths in the statute book, upon an understanding that he should be at liberty to read them upon any motion he might hereafter think necessary.—The other part of the motion was then put and carried.Lord Cochrane
323 rose to move for the production of copies of the Oaths administered to the members, witnesses, and judge advocate, upon naval courts martial. His lordship disclaimed any party motives with this motion, or any motives originating with a recent transaction of this nature, but was solely actuated by a wish to set right the misunderstanding upon this subject. He had been a member of numerous courts martial, where he had an opportunity of observing the evil consequences arising from the misconstruction of the oath, and the want of those regulations on the part of the judge advocate, which were practised in military courts martial so benefi-
323Lord Cochrane
337336335 said, that whatever charges might be preferred against him, it at least, could not be said of him that he was indifferent to the maintenance of the privileges of that House. He thought them in
337336335Mr. Tierney
 had but one objection to the motion, viz. that these documents were already before the House. The oaths of the members and judge advocate would be found in the stat. 22 Geo. 2, then on the table, and the oath of the witnesses in a book, called, The Naval Code; and thus, where such documents were so accessible, he could see no parliamentary grounds for the motion.Mr. Croker
322321 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of the county of Tipperary, setting forth, "That the petitioners did, in the month of May 1808, humbly petition the House, praying the total abolition of those penal laws which aggrieve the Roman Catholics of these realms; and that they
322321General Mathew
338 trusted the House would indulge him in saying a few words, in defence of what he conceived to be a very meritorious class of individuals, the editors of newspapers. He was not acquainted with any of them; but he believed they had done more to enlighten and strengthen the public mind than any other class in the community. A right hon. gent. (Mr. Windham) had expressed himself a friend to the liberty of the press, but not to its present practice. If the press was, however, to be still further fettered in its practice, its liberties would be completely annihilated. He remembered to have read in the history of former times, that ministers had given the following advice to their sovereign, "We must destroy the press, or the press will destroy us." But that expression was used in times very different from the present. In
338Mr. Peter Moore
345ex-parte344343342341340 felt that he should be deficient in respect to his right hon. friend
345ex-parte344343342341340Mr. Sheridan
329328posse comitatus.327Lex Parliamentaria,326325324 rose to submit the proposition to the House, of which he had on the last evening given notice; and although he felt it to be a subject of the greatest importance, he still could not coincide in the apprehensions of those who considered this interference with what was called the Standing Order of that House, as a matter attended with mighty difficulties and with peculiar delicacy. In delivering his sentiments upon this subject, it was wholly unnecessary for him to take up any considerable portion of their time. Neither did the plain statement to which he should confine himself stand in need of adventitious ornaments. There was little use for calling forth either the cogency of argument, or the decorations of language, to recommend the course which he should propose; for if the good sense of the House, its willingness to stand high in the estimation of the country, and to hold firm the confidence of its constituents—if all such powerful and persuasive inducements could not influence them, then it would be idle to expect that such auxiliary aids could make an impression. There was nothing in what he should propose which savoured of party motive or of political bias; his sole object was to impress upon that House the vital necessity of meriting by its conduct, at this critical period more than ever, the confidence of the people. That being; his view of the question, he could not lend himself to the apprehensions of those who, from most
329328posse comitatus.327Lex Parliamentaria,326325324Mr. Sheridan
331330 said, he supposed it might create some surprise that he should, on the present occasion, speak and vote against the motion brought forward by his right hon. friend. This was, however, one of those accidental matters in which he had always differed in opinion with his right hon. friend. His right hon. friend had said, that he thought it a matter of importance; he for his own part confessed he did not think it was. This would frequently be the case. The importance of the war had not weighed sufficiently with his right hon. friend to bring him to the House in the various questions concerning it, that had been discussed since the commencement of the session, though this Standing Order had produced that effect. His right hon. friend had always been an advocate for the liberty of the press. He (Mr. Windham) was the same; but on other grounds, and what had been said by his right hon. friend on the present question, seemed to him to be rather the matter of a threat than an argument. To allude to the enforcement of all other standing orders was a threat, and not an argument. This Standing Order had obtained and been submitted to for a century, and no inconvenience had been found in it till within the last 30 years. His right hon. friend seemed to consider the right of admission of strangers into the gallery as a part of the constitution of that House, whereas, on the contrary, it had been granted as a mere matter of favour. He would first ask, how much the country had gained in the improvement of its affairs since that practice had obtained. He could not say in what respect the country had gained any thing: past times might be contrasted with the present; but still, from the daily manner
331330Mr. Windham
 explained. He never intended to attribute all the changes that had taken place during the last thirty years to the publicity of the proceedings of Parliament, but had merely mentioned that publicity as one cause of those changes, and added, that he was not aware of any material good consequences that had resulted from that practice.Mr. Windham
355 presented a Petition of the freeholders of the county of Middlesex, in full county assembled, setting forth "That, on the 6th of May 1793, a Petition was presented to the House, in which it is averred, that 307 of the honourable members for England and Wales only are not returned to parliament by the suffrages of the people, but are, though numerous breaches and evasions of the freedom of election, therein fully set forth, appointed by 154 Peers and Commoners, and that evidence in proof of the facts contained in such Petition was tendered in support thereof; and the allegations, so stated in the said Petition, still stand on the Jonrnals of the House uncontradicted; and that by the Statute commonly called the septennial act the same House of Commons may sit for a period equal to one half of the probable duration of human life, taken at the most favourable age; and that the right of the Commons to send representatives to parliament was, by our ancient constitution, vested in the freeholders and householders, and long parliaments were heretofore as unknown as the modern practice of members procuring their seats in the House by purchase, nomination, or by barter of patronage; and that every departure from this undoubted right of the people to a substantial representation in short parliaments was a violation of the fundamental principles of the constitution, and is a grievance dangerous alike to the liberties and property of the people: and that this deplorable state of the representation co-operating with the septennial duration of parliaments, has an alarming tendency to destroy that constitutional balance which ought to subsist between the three branches of the legislature, and threatens the free subjects of these realms with a tyranny more hateful and degrading than a despotic monarchy—the usurpation of our rights by an oligarchy of the proprietors of boroughs; and that the elective franchise ought to be entrusted to those,
355Mr. Byng
l.,R. brought down a Message from the King, which the Speaker read from the chair as follows:—l.,R.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
366365364 presented a Petition of the inhabitant householders, electors of the City and liberty of Westminster, assembled in New Palace Yard, the 9th day of February 1810, by the appointment of Arthur Morris, Esq. the high bailiff, in consequence of a requisition for that purpose, signed by several inhabitant householders, was presented to the House, and read; setting forth, "That in a Petition presented to the House, by Charles Grey, esq. (now earl Grey), on Monday the 6th day of May 1793, and which Petition was entered on the Journals of the House, it was averred and offered to be proved, "That the House of Commons did not fully and fairly repre-
366365364Sir Francis Burden
371alibis,370s.s.369368367 said, that in consequence of the notice he had given in the last and the present sessions, he now rose to bring under the consideration of the House, some parts of the Criminal Law of this country; and whatever might be the effect of the motion with which he should trouble the House, he had the consolation to feel that he was but discharging his duty, and was not without great hopes, that what he had to state on the subject must be productive of public good. If he succeeded, he should congratulate the country, and feel great happiness on his having effected what he conceived to be a considerable amendment in the criminal law. It was not his intention to propose any other alteration than on two subjects; first, the frequency of capital punishments; secondly, what had been thought the policy and expediency of transporting persons for life, or for a certain number of years, to New South Wales. On the present occasion, he only meant to take notice of capital punishments. On a future occasion, he would bring forward the subject of transportation. As to the former he believed there was no country on the face of the earth in which there had been so many different offences according to law to be punished with death as in England. The indiscriminate application of the sentence of death to offences exhibiting very different degrees of turpitude had long been a subject of complaint in this country, but it had still been progressive and increasing. He need only refer to those principles so universally and triumphantly established by Dr. Adam Smith, very few of which had been acted upon, to prove this point. In his opinion, nothing could be more erroneous or more mischievous than that certain punishments should be allotted to particular offences, and that the law so laid down should not be acted on, and peremptorily enforced,
371alibis,370s.s.369368367— Sir S. Romilly
 defended the principles and arguments laid down by his hon. and learned friend (the Solicitor General.) He could not concur in the views of his hon. and learned friend the mover. If a discretion were to be left in any quarter, he did not know where it could, more safely be vested than with the judges. He admitted that what had been stated by his learned friend, formed a fair case for the consideration of the House. And, though he should not oppose the motion, he would not pledge himself in either way as to his future opinion upon the measure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in a brief reply in which he did not feel it necessary to touch upon any argument against his motion, complained of the misrepresentations of his sentiments which had proceeded from a right hon. gent. not then in his place,(Mr. Windham). He had never abused the doctrines of Dr. Paley, but on the contrary had stated, that the excellence of his works had given credit to, and caused mischievous effects to be produced by such errors as he had fallen into. The hon. and learned gent, then took notice of the various arguments urged against his motion, and stated that this was only one of the measures which he meant to bring forward for the improvement of the criminal law.Sir S. Romilly
 said a few words in support of the motion.Mr. Herbert
 thought that a question involving not only the lives of many individuals, but the rights and properties of all his Majesty's subjects, ought to be considered with the most deliberate attention. His hon. and learned friend might have alluded to him, when he adverted to those who were friendly to existing systems, and adverse to innovations. He was ready to admit, that he was attached to the existing system of law, and extremely jealous in his views of any new theories. Whether the doctrines were derived from Smith, or from Paley, he was not disposed to give up practical benefits for plausible advantages. He considered the proposition as calculated not for its particular object, but to cast discredit and odium on the whole body of the criminal law. The argument of his hon. and learned friend went to cut up by the root all discretion in the judges, because it went to confine that discretion within certain limits, at the same time that it professed to extend the discretion of the jury.The Solicitor-General
 supported the motion.Lord G. Grenville
374 did not think any large portion of the hon. and learned gent.'s speech relevant to the question. He contended, that his hon. and learned friend, so far from trusting to theory, had confined his statements and reasonings to facts; and that what the hon. and learned member had attributed to theory was only an inference from facts. His hon. friend had never had an idea of giving way to wild, extravagant, and visionary schemes of theoretical perfection, in the motion he had made, but had founded both his reasoning and proposition on the evidence of facts. The whole foundation of the mo-
374Mr. W. Smith
373372 was somewhat surprised to hear, and particularly from his honourable and learned friend, who had just sat down, such animadversions as he had made upon a writer, whose works had done more for the moral improvement of mankind than perhaps the writings of any other man that had ever existed. The doctrines laid down and established by that wise and able writer might be considered as the principia of moral philosophy. They rested upon a basis which was not to be shaken by fanciful theories or crude speculation. The system of morality contained in Dr. Paley's works was founded on the nature and moral fitness of mankind, and until man should become a different being from what he is at present, that system would continue to be the wisest and the justest for the guidance and government of mankind. The character and authority of that great and good man, stood so justly and eminently high in universal estimation, that he should have thought it unnecessary to say anything in vindication of his writings. But when they were assailed from such a quarter and by such a man as his hon. and learned friend, he would not suffer the attack to pass silently off, or without entering his protest against any attempt to decry them. Having said thus much, not in defence, of Dr. Paley, for that was
373372Mr. Windham
377 rose to move for the production of some documents respecting the state of Antwerp, previously to the sailing of the late Expedition to the Scheldt. He observed, that it appeared from the letter of the noble commander in chief on that Expedition, dated on the 29th of August, that the ulterior objects of the Expedition were totally impracticable, because so formidable was the defensive state of Antwerp, that it would be in vain to attempt its reduction without a regular siege. Now, as this was the fact, he conceived it quite impossible that his Majesty's ministers must not have been most grossly ignorant of that which it was their duty to have perfectly known before they dispatched the Expedition, with such instructions to the commander-in-chief as the noble lord received at his departure. He could not conceive, that, if ministers were really informed of the formidable state of Antwerp, they would have been rash and precipitate enough to have sent the Expedition, under such instructions, for its reduction. But whatever may have been their want of information in other respects, they surely must have been furnished with some plan of the state of the place. They could not plead, in excuse for the failure of their Expedition, their own ignorance that Antwerp was fortified: and if they did know, that it was in a complete state of defence. how could they exculpate themselves for so rash a proceeding as that of detaching so large a portion of the public force, for objects which they must have known to be utterly hopeless, and which fact was made evident to the commander in chief, very shortly after his arrival in the Scheldt. He was aware, that ministers might object to the production of those documents for which he should now move, lest their publicity might give improper information to the enemy; but he could not conceive that any document
377Mr. Hutchinson
 opposed the motion as premature and unnecessary in the present stage of the business. The House had already decided, that all documents of a secret nature should be referred to the consideration of a secret committee already appointed, and whose duty it would be to report such matters as they judged fit to be made public. If, when that Committee should make their report, the House should deem further information necessary, they might call on their Committee to make a more detailed report, and move for any further documents they might judge necessary. He concluded by moving the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not know whether there were a plan or not. Perhaps there were none, except the old plans which might be had in the shops. But the whole subject was before the secret committee, which would report as soon as possible. The motion therefore he thought premature and unnecessary, and a sort of impeachment of the secret Committee.Mr. Yorke
378 pledged himself to prove that ministers, in sending off the Expedition, had acted under the grossest ignorance
378Mr. Hutchinson
 wished that the documents moved for should be laid upon the table, in the first instance; and if it should appear they were of a secret nature, they should be sealed up, and sent to the secret Committee. He was, however, less anxious about the result of the motion, than surprised at the resistance given to it by the right hon. gent.; as he had no doubt the information required must be ultimately given.Lord Porchester
 would admit that, unless the information should come out in the report of the secret Committee, or in some other way, the fair inference would be that ministers had none —as they would have failed to produce it in their own defence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
382 as this was a question which had been frequently under the consideration of the House, did not think a bare vote sufficient for him, and therefore felt it necessary to state the ground upon which he was induced to support the motion of the hon. gent. But at the same time that he supported this motion, he could not subscribe to the doctrine, as, a plain self-evident truth, that all sinecure offices ought to be abolished. If the measure had been presented to him on any such general grounds, in spite of all the unpopularity which might attach to his conduct, he should feel it his duty to oppose it; but in the present case, the ground upon which he supported the hon. gent.'s motion, arose out of the exception which had been made by that hon. gent., namely, the enormous increase of the influence of the crown. It was now nearly 30 years since the celebrated Resolutions, proposed by Mr. Dunning, had been agreed to by that House, viz. "That the influence of the crown had increased, was increasing, and ought to be diminished." He begged gentlemen would bear in mind, that since that period the public establishments had been trebled; the amount of taxes augmented in the highest degree; that the influence of the crown had risen as the country had declined, that it grew with its decay, and strengthened with its weakness; that there was not a family in the whole nation that was not suffering under the consequences of the calamities which had resulted from the system that had been pursued; nay, he should add, that there was not an individual in the" country, who was not alive to the mischiefs necessarily arising from having the administration of the government committed to such incapable men, who pursued a course of conduct equally inconsistent with common principles and common sense.—No man could be more attached than he was to the monarchical part of the constitution, nor more decidedly adverse to revolutionary doctrines; and in wishing to diminish the
382The Hon. Mr. Ward,
383 observed, that the feeling which seemed to be uppermost in the mind of the hon. gent. was, that whatever might be the subject under consideration, a charge was, at all events, to be brought against government. Whether the question was one for reform, economy, or upon any subject of general policy, the hon. gentlemen opposite uniformly took occasion to bring complaints against the conduct of the government; and to urge, that if talents, ability, and integrity were necessary for the conduct of affairs, they were only to be found on their side of the House. The hon. gentle-
383The Chancellor of the Exchequer
384 charged the right hon. gent. with having misrepresented what had fallen from his hon. friend. His hon. friend had not stated that if the House were to look for a constellation of talents, or an aggregate of integrity, they should only look to the side of the House on which he sat, or to the hon. gentlemen with whom he acted. His hon. friend had only said, that if they were inclined to get rid of the greatest imbecility of counsels, of the wildest plans, and feeblest execution of them, which had ever disgraced any ministers, they should get rid of the gentlemen opposite. He agreed, however, with the right hon. gent. that it would have been better if the hon. gent. who brought forward the motion, had waited till the Finance Committee had made its
384The Hon. Mr. Lamb
 interfered, and assured the hon. gent. he was mistaken.The Speaker
 animadverted upon the manner in which the hon. gent. had spoken of lord Melville in the course of his speech. He did not conceive that that hon. gent. was qualified to judge of the public services of that individual, who fully merited all the gratitude, as he did all the rewards, his country had bestowed upon him. He could not answer as to any feelings entertained in the public mind; but he was well convinced there was a general sense of public justice in the British nation, that would not bear any man's character to be traduced who had been acquitted by his peers. He spoke Strongly against the motion.Mr. R. Dundas
 said it was obvious to any man who cast his eyes over the list of sinecures, that these sinecures were given to lord Melville when in the receipt of a very considerable annual income from the places he actually held. For his own part, he was glad to see there was a man in the House who had the courage and the honesty to advert to the case and the circumstances of that noble lord. He had no hostility to his lordship, but spoke as he ever should speak merely from feelings of public duty. He should he as glad to see members on his side of the House cleared of such imputations as those on the other. The right hon. gent. had alluded to the Report of the Finance Committee, and from that Report, among other reasons, thought the motion unnecessary; but had not he himself brought a message to that House only a few days ago, in direct violation of what he had stated? If there were services to be rewarded, let the sinecures be applied to that purpose. It was the violation of this principle the Report complained of, and with that Report before the House, of which the right hon. gent. pretended to approve, he had thus openly acted in hostility to it. He was afraid those sinecures were always given for political services, and not reserved for those fair honest and open services which the country could approve, He should do every thing in his power to have them abolished, and would therefore vote for the motion.Lord A. Hamilton
387 was proceeding to state that if the hon. gent. was really sincere in his desire to promote the object of his motion,
387Mr. Bankes
388 said, he had never entertained the smallest idea that the hon. gent. was not sincere in his object; but the more sincere he was the more he would wish him at that moment not to press his motion. If he did, it would certainly do more harm than good. In times like the present, it was necessary to make retrenchments, and particularly in sinecure offices but it would be impossible to do it in the way proposed by the motion of the hon. gent. If the bill should be brought in; the House must, in the Committee go into the nature and detail of all sinecure offices, which would render it impossible to get through it in the present session. If the House determined to take up the measure, as he hoped it would, it should be by resolutions, laying down the principles, on which it was deemed necessary, in a Committee. Some matters of a similar nature were to be brought forward very soon in consequence of the third Report on the Public Expenditure; and he thought this subject of sinecure offices would come very properly within the meaning and intention of what was in the contemplation of the Committee. He was sensible that no object could be more important than for the House to do something effectual towards abolishing sinecures, which were generally given for ministerial support, and not for reward of laborious or meritorious services. The mode of rewarding by pensions was on every account much better, because they could be given at the moment services were performed; but offices might not be vacant at the time, so that merit must, in many cases, go a long time unrewarded; and perhaps when the office did become vacant, it was given to some one who had never done any service to the country. In adverting to the influence of the crown, he allowed that rewards for public services could lay so properly nowhere else —the crown must be the fountain of honour; the constitution would be vicious, if it dissented from it; but then offices should not be given merely to increase the influence of the crown, which he feared they
388Mr. Bankes
 said, he would undertake, at a very early period, to bring the matter before the HouseMr. Bankes
 replied, on Thursday.Mr. Bankes
381 said he would not oppose the motion, but he thought it would have been better if the hon. gent. had deferred it till the report of the committee of Finance should enable the House to come to some decision upon the question. There were various considerations connected with the case, which should be attended to, before any final determination could be had upon
381Mr. H. Thornton
 then, with the leave of the House, withdrew his motion.Mr. Fuller
 asked, when?Mr. Fuller
 said, that if either of the hon. gentlemen would point out a -mode by which the public and himself might bet satisfied that the business was not to be abandoned, but would be brought forward at some time not far distant, he would withdraw his motion; if not, he should now persevere in it, though not a man in the House were to divide with him. A right hon. gent. of great talents, told the House, that they should all be of some party; he supposed he meant we should all wear some distinguishing colour. Was Cicero, however, of any party? Were the Scipios of any party? No, they stood for the good of their country. If the hon. gent. would pledge himself seriously to bring the business forward at some early day, he would consent to withdraw his motion.Mr. Fuller
 who spoke to order.—He appealed to the chair, if any hon. member had a right to suppose from any thing he had said that he was not sincere.Mr. Fuller,
l.l.d.s.l.380379 rose to make his promised motion on this subject. He said, that in order to make the House acquainted with the nature of those sinecures which he wished to be abolished, it was impossible to do better than to read a passage from the writings of one of the most illustrious men that ever England produced—he meant lord Hale, in his treatise on the amendment of the laws.—That great judge says:—"There are at this day in the Exchequer many great officers, that receive the profit and fees of their office, and either do not at all attend it, or know not what belongs to it, but only, perchance, once a term sit with some formality in their gowns, but never put their hands to any business of their offices, nor indeed know not how. For instance, the King's remembrancer, the receiver and remembrancer of the first fruits, the usher of the Exchequer, the chief marshal of the Exchequer, the chamberlains of the Exchequer, the chief clerk of the Pipe, the controller of the Pipe, and some of the auditors that I could name. These, and some other nominal officers, are great men, enjoy their pleasures, understand not, or attend not to their offices, but dispatch all by deputies; and by this means an unnecessary charge is drawn upon the King and his people; for the chief officer hath the profit, and the deputy he hath some, or else he could not live. If these
l.l.d.s.l.380379Mr. Fuller
 said that the right hon. gent (Mr. Yorke) seemed to shake his head when a plan was mentioned; and if he could draw any inference from this gesture it seemed to imply that ministers had no plan: and, indeed, the right hon. gent. referred members to the shops for plans accessible to any body. He himself believed, that ministers really had no plan: but they did not chuse to acknowledge a fact that must tend directly to their own inculpation.Mr. Whitbread
390389 said he could not content himself with giving a silent vote on the present question. He would not oppose any proposition of this nature, but he feared the present motion would not attain the end proposed by the hon. mover. He accused the right hon. gent. opposite of having misrepresented what had been said by his hon. friend (Mr. Ward) on the subject of sinecure places. He was an enemy to sinecures chiefly from the manner in which they were disposed of. Were they employed as the means of rewarding distinguished public services only they could produce no mischief, and would be only another name for pensions. But this was not the case. He adverted to the case of lord Nelson, and said, that at the time he so gloriously fell in the arms of victory, the place of the Cinque ports very soon after became vacant. This was a noble opportunity of worthily bestowing a sinecure place of the first magnitude, by making that perpetual in the family of that gallant officer. What, on the contrary, had become of it? Why, it was given to lord Liverpool, for the eminent services he had performed during a short administration. Perhaps we should soon have another instance of the right hon. gent.'s liberality in rewarding public services. The right hon. gent. (Mr. Dundas) had misunderstood what had been said by his hon. friend relative to lord Melville. He had not cast the smallest reflection on that noble lord. His hon. friend had stated that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had written a letter to lord Melville, extracts of which had appeared in the papers, in which he lamented that he could not off0er him a place in the administration; but he offered him one of the highest honours the crown could bestow, an advance in the
390389Mr. Whitbread
386l.l.l.385 had wished to address the House, immediately after the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In opposition to the statement of that right hon. gent. that the influence of the crown had not increased, he was prepared to contend, that it had increased to an alarming extent. Had not colony been added to colony, and influence risen with augmented patronage in a progressive proportion, since the memorable proposition of Mr. Dunning? Had not the crown, since that period, divided the enormous patronage
386l.l.l.385Mr. Creevey
 asked, whether it could be a reflection on the secret Committee to call for information which was not secret.Mr. Windham
 said, there would be something in the objection, if his hon. friend had called for the channels through which ministers had got their information. But this had been distinctly disclaimed. Nothing was called for but the information itself, and therefore the argument was entirely inapplicable.Sir J. Newport
 wished for a Committee, and thought it would appear, that there was no necessity for extending the prohibition to oats.Mr. Yorke
395 thought that when they considered the alarm which was generally spread by the appointment of Committees to enquire into the state of grain, they should be slow to
395The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the arguments for a previous inquiry, and contended, that the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, had founded all his reasoning on fallacious assumptions, such as, that the corn trade of the two countries was nearly in the same state; whereas in Ireland that trade was the staple trade of the country, forming the most material part of its exports, and strengthening by its increase that important branch of the empire, whilst this country was obliged to import for its support, diminishing its productions as its importation augmented. If the crop of oats had been adequate, how happened it that the London, Liverpool, and Bristol markets were supplied from Ireland? He trusted that the Irish gentlemen who were interested in the question, would oppose the prohibition of the importation of Irish spirit to this country, as it was contrary to the Articles of the Union. If that House were to adopt such a measure, they would impede an event now in progress, and highly desirable, the supply of British consumption from the Irish soil. It was well known that this country was now importing corn from France, a species of supply which might be cut off at once without notice. The enemy might then refuse to British wants, what he at present conceded to his own convenience. The right hon. gent, strongly enforced the policy of encouraging the agricultural interests of Ireland, with a view to provide an adequate supply for the consumption of this country.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
396 observed, that nothing could be more injurious, than that it should be supposed that a desire for a war of prohibitions existed in either country. He was glad to find that all the gentlemen who had spoken had expressed a desire to sup-
396Mr. Foster
s.s.s.397 exhorted the House to husband the agricultural produce of the empire, lest any scarcity should arise, which might perhaps oblige us to apply to the enemy at once for bread and peace. He would therefore deprecate the idea of having the corn of Ireland consumed in the distilleries. But yet he was desirous to afford every practical encouragement to the agricultural interest of that country. With that view he would recommend, that the importation of all foreign corn should be interdicted, and that the Irish agriculturist should have the monopoly of the English market; and if that were not sufficient he would put a stop to the importation of butter and cheese from Holland, which in fact ought to take place, if we could provide an adequate supply elsewhere, as it formed a material source of gain to the enemy; but still more for the encouragement of the Irish, he would prohibit the importation of hemp and flax from the Baltic. If all these expedients failed, he thought it would be proper to allow the distillation from corn, which some gentlemen required. But he would previously try the expedients he had mentioned, and particularly that with respect to the prohibition of the importation of foreign corn. This, indeed, was a measure which in his judgment could not be too soon resorted to. The benefit which the enemy derived from the present system of licensing the importation of his
s.s.s.397Mr. Marryat
394 thought going into a Committee of the whole House, the most expedient way for considering the question. Had that motion been carried, he would not have found it necessary to go any great length into the principle of the measure, which he considered as fully established the last session. The same causes existed now. The price of grain was higher than when the Act was passed, which was proved by the returns before the House. The rise of the price of bullion could by no means balance this increase of price, to which it bore no proportion. He could see no occasion for a Committee to inquire into the scarcity of provisions; the best proof of the abundance of the article, was the price of it. With respect to the hon. gent.'s assertion of the abundant crops in Scotland, he would only say, that an hon. member from that country, now beside him, complained very much of the great damage that had been done to it before it was got in. As to Ireland, it certainly was not his intention to extend the prohibition to that country, for there were many reasons which the hon. gent. had not contemplated. From the superabundance of the crop, the prohibition was unnecessary, and would be injurious. Another reason was, that the revenue was not easily collected in that country. The hon. gent. had exclaimed against the prohibition of spirit
394Mr. Rose
 considered it an infringement of the articles of Union, and said, that the demand for sugar was never greater, nor perhaps so great, as at present. He should therefore support the amendment of his hon. friend.Mr. C. Hutchinson
 objected to the amendment. He reminded gentlemen what an interminable question it was in the Committee last year, and warned them against reviving the discussion upon the prohibition, with respect to Ireland.Lord Binning
 on his legs. The right hon. gent. observed upon the statement of Mr. Marryatt relative to the freight and number of the neutrals in our employment, which, in his opinion, was considerably over-rated. As to licences granted to those neutrals, he begged it to be understood, that no neutral had a licence to go into any other port than that into which a British ship would not be admitted; and as to the number of neutrals so licensed, that was owing to the extent of our commerce, which, while it occupied the whole of out shipping, necessarily called for that addition. The right hon. gent. concluded with moving, That the chairman should be directed to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prohibit distillation from grain for a time to be limited.Mr. Rose
 said, that in case any such proposition was made, he would endeavour to be in his place, and give it all his opposition. The question was then put and agreed to.Mr. Foster
 said, that, with every respect for the West India merchants, still he could not think of sacrificing to them the agricultural interests of Ireland. With every respect also for Scotland, he could not think of preventing the exercise of the industry of his own country, for the purpose of supplying Scotland with oats. He could not agree to sacrifice the agricultural interests of Ireland, not merely to the wants of Scotland, but to her imaginary wants. The prohibition should be extended to Ireland, when no scarcity existed.Mr. Grattan
 did not think that the present prices of grain were sufficient to justify the prohibition. He understood that a great deal of distillation was going forward in the highlands of Scotland, notwithstanding the prohibition.Mr. W. Smith
s.393392391 could not suffer this motion to pass without expressing his disapprobation
s.393392391Mr. Parnell
399 declared, that from the information which he had obtained in Scotland, there was no scarcity whatever existing, or to be apprehended in that country; and why should the agricultural interest of Ireland be sacrificed to provide against imaginary want in Scotland? As to the argument of the right hon. gent.
399Mr. Parnell
 thought, that they need go no farther than the Report of the Committee upon the bad consequences of prohibitions, to see the impolicy of resorting to them in the present case. The Committee had expressly stated, that in their opinion they had a tendency to injure the agricultural interests of the country, and that nothing but the strong statements of the West India merchants could induce them to recommend even a temporary adoption. He did not think that they were warranted in continuing the prohibition upon the bare statement of the right hon. gent. It became them particularly to weigh the subject well, as no man could deny that it was an infringement of the Articles of Union. It had been asked, would the distillers of this country submit to the prohibition, without a suspension of the intercourse in the article of spirits, between the two countries? He saw no reason why they should not; he saw no reason why they should object to the performance of the Articles of Union. If this measure was to be persisted in, he considered it so gross an act of injustice towards Ireland, that he should, at a future period, propose a suspension of the intercourse between the two countries, in cotton goods, to continue while the prohibition upon the spirit trade lasted. A prohibition similar to the present was laid on by the former Parliament, but then it was only for a period of six weeks. But the present Parliament continued it without entering into any inquiry as to its necessity. He wished to support the West India trade, but it was not by such little temporary expedients. If this measure was persevered in, he should consider it as a home blow to the agricultural interests of Ireland.Sir John Newport
422421420419418417416415414413l.l.412411410409408l.l.l.l.l.40700£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 1809
00£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 18090064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.
0064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.
00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.114£.406,035
114£.406,0350181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,
0181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,113324,828
113324,8280012,577**
0012,577**113£312,251**
113£312,251**
00£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 1809
00£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 18090064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.
0064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.
00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.114£.406,035
114£.406,0350181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,
0181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,113324,828
113324,8280012,577**
0012,577**113£312,251**
113£312,251***406405404403levident utilitas.urgens necessitas,402 rose, and spoke as follows: Mr. Speaker; For the better elucidation of the motion now before the House, it will be necessary to state, more particularly than has hitherto been done, the nature and object of the petition with which it is connected, and on which it is founded. This petition is signed by a great number of very respectable individuals in this metropolis, describing themselves as merchants and others having assurances to make, who are desirous of forming themselves into a company, with a capital of five millions, for the purpose of effecting assurances; and praying that they may be enabled so to do, either by the repeal of the exclusive privileges granted to the two existing companies, by the Act of the 6th Geo. 1, or by being permitted to make such assurances as a company, notwithstanding the said recited Act. Thus the supporters of this petition are in a situation of some embarrassment as well as awkwardness; for they must first persuade the House that insurance companies, possessing exclusive or particular privileges, are prejudicial to the public interests, in order to induce us to deprive those now existing of their chartered rights; and then, requesting us to forget all they have said on this subject, they must take up the contrary side of the argument, and persuade us that such companies are advantageous to the public interests, in order to induce us to establish their intended new company on the ruins of the old companies. They endeavour, indeed, to draw a distinction between this new company and the present chartered companies, by declaring that they renounce all pretensions to a charter—that they require no monopoly; but the explanation they give of their views and objects, by no means accords with these declarations.—Parties who apply for an incorporation can have but two objects in view; to obtain either exclusive or particular privileges, and to obtain an exemption from responsibility beyond the amount which they engage to invest as a capital in the intended undertaking. The plan of this new company comprises both these objects; for the petitioners pray that they may have the privilege of doing that, which the law as it now stands prohibits them from doing, effecting marine insurances as a company; and they farther pray, that they may be exempted from responsibility beyond the amount of their intended capital. Whether these advan-
422421420419418417416415414413l.l.412411410409408l.l.l.l.l.40700£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 1809
00£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 18090064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.
0064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.
00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.114£.406,035
114£.406,0350181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,
0181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,113324,828
113324,8280012,577**
0012,577**113£312,251**
113£312,251**
00£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 1809
00£.194,896,800Total amount of property insured in Great Britain in 18090064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.
0064,965,600d.s.One-fifth Irish and coasting trade, or £.81,207 duty, at 2d.s.00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.
00£.129,931,200s.Four-fifths foreign insurance, or £.324,828 duty, at 5s.114£.406,035
114£.406,0350181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,
0181,207Add for the out-ports and Ireland, estimated at one-fourth of the above,113324,828
113324,8280012,577**
0012,577**113£312,251**
113£312,251***406405404403levident utilitas.urgens necessitas,402Mr. Marryat
424423 thought, that the arguments urged by the hon. gent. against monopolies, strongly applied against the matters complained of in the petition. When his hon. friend had stated that three-fourths of the mercantile body in London were in favour of the petition, it was his opinion that he might, with equal truth, have asserted, that 99 out of every 100 of that body were friends to it. He knew of no house in the city that was not strongly interested in the accomplishment of the object of the petitioners. The only question, then, before the House was, whether the petition should be referred to a select or to an open committee. For his own part, he was inclined to the select Committee. The whole course of precedent in the proceedings of that House lay that way. He was equally disposed to approve of the mode in which it was proposed to compose the Committee, because every disposition had been manifested in the selection of the members to provide with fairness for the interests of all the parties concerned. The case of the Globe Insurance Company would not apply, because that company extended its insurances to fire and lives. The petition before the House complained that the two chartered companies in existence were not able to afford the necessary facility for effecting marine insurances, and therefore prayed that further means should be provided, in any way which to the wisdom of the House might seem meet. If parliament were of opinion that this could be best effected by incorporated companies, as at the passing of the act of George the First, then he would be disposed to say, that the new company should be incorporated; not for the purpose of giving any opinion on the propriety or policy of such exclusive institutions, but with a view to extend the means of effecting marine insurances. His own opinion was decidedly, that the better mode would be to throw the business open generally. If,
424423Mr. A. Baring
 said, that the question before the House was whether the Petition in consideration should be referred to an open committee or to a select one. He was of opinion, that the most judicious mode of proceeding would be to refer it in the first instance to a Select Committee. He was fortified in that opinion by the analogous proceeding in the case of private bills, which were generally referred to the consideration of Select Committees. He thought, too, that a Select Committee was better calculated to consult the interests of the parties concerned, whether the gentlemen at Lloyd's, the two insurance companies, or the public at large. Besides, he reminded gentlemen, that the adoption of the Select Committee, in the first instance, did not necessarily preclude them from subsequent proceedings in the open Committee, and that they might afterwards enter into the most enlarged and public discussion upon the merits of the question. Under these circumstances he expressed a hope that there would be no opposition to going into the Committee.—The gallery was then cleared for a division, when there appeared on the question for going into a Select Committee—Ayes 20—Noes 7. The above numbers not being sufficient to constitute a House, it of course adjourned.Mr. Adam
l.400l. rose to bring forward his motion, in consequence of the petition he had presented a few days since, praying for a Bill to establish a New Marine Insurance Company. He spoke at considerable length, but in so low a tone, that it was impossible to collect even the substance of his speech with any degree of accuracy. We understood, however, that he made a chronological statement of similar institutions already adopted, from time to time, in this country, and their inadequacy to meet all the objects of commercial men. With respect to the design of the merchants who had signed this petition, any man who read the list must be confident they were not men likely to be actuated by mere views of personal interest; but that they chiefly contemplated the general interests and accommodation of the mercantile world. He then went into a comparative statement of the amount of insurances at the different offices annually, and shewed that in the two now in existence, which offices possessed exclusive privileges, namely, the Royal Exchange and London Assurance, their amount of risk on vessels was so limited, that neither would exceed 10,000l.400l.Mr. Manning
425 rose to call the attention of the House to a very interesting subject which he thought demanded their most serious consideration. He had no other authority relative to the fact which he wished to bring under the observation of the House, than the statement he had seen in the public newspapers, that a sea captain, in the British service, had been lately brought to trial by a court-martial, for a most inhuman act of wanton and deliberate barbarity towards a British seaman on board his own vessel. It was stated that he had put this seaman ashore upon a barren rock in the Western Islands without provisions, and exposed him to perish by famine; a circumstance which accidentally reached the knowledge of government through the
425Sir Francis Burdett
 said, that he did not think his question had been answered. Was such a heinous act as the one in question to be allowed to pass with such comparative impunity? If it was, the principle might be carried to such an extent as to affect the security of the country in its most vital point. Was it to be endured—Sir F. Burdett
426 said, that he thought the question arising out of the statement he had made of much greater importance than any, involving the temporary convenience of gentlemen. (Cries of Chair! chair!) Matter of convenience ought to
426Sir F. Burdett
 said, that he felt it exceedingly hard upon him to be beat down in such a manner, in the statement of what he thought a great public grievance. (Chair! chair!) The hon. baronet then said, that he would take a day or two to consider what would be the best form to bring the matter before the House, and that he would for the present content himself with that general noticeSir F. Burdett
 conceived that it was necessary the papers should be produced. The hon. gent. had allowed that it was injurious to the service that the practice should be continued, a practice which he stated was sanctioned by time. This was the general argument when any thing was wrong: it had been so in the case of lord Macclesfield, but he was not aware that the feelings of those times were not to govern the present. Lord Macclesfield had been found guilty of selling the places of masters in Chancery, and a severe punishment had followed. According to the statement of the hon. gent. this improper practice ought to have stopped in 1786. Now, his hon. friend had stated similar transactions to have taken place in 1794. Was not that a reason for inquiry? The hon. gent. had stated, that sir W. Gibbons had a pension given him, on the incorporation of two departments; but he did not know the fact before, nor would he pretend to say it was a job, though it looked very like one, but he was at a loss to conjecture why it was that a commissioner of the Sick and Hurt Office, should have a pension. What possible services could he have done to the public, that they should he burthened with a pension for him?Sir F. Burdett
 declared his readiness to agree to the motion for the production of these papers.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 having received information, that, in consequence of a prosecution sometime since instituted against a firm for the sale of offices in the city, the penalties of which prosecution the parties were now suffering, some papers or letters implicating other parties in similar offences had been put into the hands of the law officers of the crown, he wished to be informed by these gentlemen, whether such documents had been given to them; and if so, whether it was their intention to take proceedings against the parties so implicated.Lord Folkestone
433l. answered, that it had been stated by the parties, the objects of the prosecution (Messrs. Pohlman and Keylock,) in order to give colour to their own practices, that persons high in office were concerned in the sale of offices. Amongst others, it had been stated that the duke of Portland made 30,000433l.The Attorney-General
 stated, that he neither had received any such documents nor information.The Solicitor General
432 did not think the House ought to feel in the same manner as the friends of the noble, lord, nor agree to the motion, unless a sufficient ground were laid for it. The Report of the committee of 1786 recommended the abolition of fees, and an increase of sa-
432The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that some case should have been laid before the House by the hon. baronet, as the ground upon which he had thought it right to bring forward this measure. He did not feel it necessary to augment the list of felonies, without cause; and he was apprehensive, that if the Bill were to pass in its present form, it would be productive of great inconvenience and embarrassment to the public service. Gentlemen of respectability would not feel desirous of engaging in the public service in places of great trust in the collection of the revenue, with the penalty of transportation hanging over them, as would be the case if this Bill were to pass; and upon a charge so difficult to be defined, and so easy to be misrepresented and misconceived as embezzlement.Mr. Rose
 disclaimed any wish to protect public delinquents, and declared himself as ready as the hon. baronet, to punish any offender, convicted of a crime of that description.Mr. Rose
 thought there was a very essential difference between the cases of embezzlement of Bank, South Sea Company, and merchants' clerks, and the situation of receivers of public money. These receivers often mixed the public money with their own, and had frequently a certain time allowed them to keep it in their hands, so that it would be impossible to say when they fraudulently made use of it; whereas, clerks of merchants, of banks, or of the South Sea Company, had no right to mix their master's money with their own, and if they did, and made use of it, so as not to be able to pay when called on, it was clearly a fraudulent embezzlement. He thought the doctrine urged by the hon. baronet, that the House made severe laws for the poor, and not for the rich, was as improper as any that had been used in that House.The Attorney General
436 strongly objected to the whole principle of the clause, as going to deprive government of every security it now had, in the event of any deficiency arising in the accounts of receivers of public money. At present the embezzlement of public money was punished as a misdemeanor, by which the delinquent was subject to unlimited fine and imprisonment, and even to pillory; while, at the same time, all his property, of whatever description, his person also, end all the property of his sureties, were subject to Writs of Extent, for the security of the debt due to the public. By the present measure, however, supposing a
436The Solicitor General
 concurred, that great inconvenience would result from making this felony. But the objection might be obviated by leaving out the word felony, and supposing the offence to remain a misdemeanor, subject, however, to the proposed punishment by transportation for seven years, which might be inflicted at present for perjury, and other misdemeanors. He did not say, however, that all offences of this nature ought to be so heavily punished.Sir S. Romilly
 said, that leaving out the word felony would be a considerable amendment. But there was still a difficulty as to what part of using or making away with would be liable to the punishment. The first thing must be to define this exactly, and then certainly there could be no objection to the infliction of a severe punishment on the transgression of the law. But, at present, he suggested, that the Chairman should report progress.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that it was imperative upon him as long as the House would support him, to insist upon the due observance of the rules and usages that regulated their proceedings. It was contrary to the practice of that House to admit of any debate when there was no question before them, or to entertain any motion of importance without a previous notice.The Speaker
 said, that if the hon. member had any notice or motion to ground upon his statement, it would be for him then to proceed to make it, but that it was not conformable to the usages of that House to admit of the continuance of any discussion not arising out of a motion, as such must necessarily be productive of much inconvenience to the regular course of businessThe Speaker
431 concurred in the sentiments that had been expressed by the hon. gent. of his noble relation. He was certain that it was the wish of his noble relation that the motion should be assented to, because any
431Mr. Noel
, in reply, informed the right hon. gent. that a written statement had been given in to the commissioners of the barrack board on the 31st of October last, by Wm. Pearse, a clerk in that department, containing an accusation against a Mr. Prentice, another clerk employed in a very responsible and confidential office in that department, that he had sold the offices in it, and that too since the bill of the right hon. gent. against the sale of offices. It also charged him with having employed clerks to prepare false accounts. He had further to state, that a letter had also been written to the lords of the treasury, stating the practice, and calling their attention to it. He had himself seen the letters, and he could assure the House, that they would bear out his statement.Mr. Wardle
 next moved for a general return of all the clerks in the different departments in the Navy Office, Navy Pay-Office, Sick and Hurt, and Transport Board, with the dates of their entries, ages, periods of their service, salaries at which they entered, and the augmentations since made to them, &c.Mr. Wardle
l.l.l. repealed what he had already said, that there were in these departments senior clerks, unexceptionable in point of character and ability, of 27 years standing, with salaries of 200l.l.l.Mr. Wardle
434 then moved for a copy of the Memorial or Statement from Mr. W. Pearce, late clerk in the Barrack department, sent to the commissioners on barrack
434Mr. Wardle
429l.l.l.l.l.l.428l.427 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for certain papers respecting the appointments to civil situations in the barrack department and some of the departments of the navy. He had stated on a former evening, that it was his intention thereon to found generally some propositions for bettering the situation of a large body of useful, meritorious public servants, who had suffered materially from the system of abuse which had been carried on in some of the navy departments. His object in this motion was to shew to the House, that many instances had occurred of abuses in the appointments of both departments; and if the papers should be granted, he would pledge himself to prove his statement to be perfectly correct. Apprehensive, however, that the papers would be refused, he should feel it necessary to go into the subject at some length, in order to shew that he had not brought forward his motion without sufficient grounds. A gentleman had applied to him not long since, who had stated to him certain instances of abuses, and requested he would take some notice of the subject in the House. He had assured him, that having a place in the naval department, horn which he was obliged to retire, he was told by an officer that he was intitled to some remuneration in consequence; and that upon this subject he had applied without effect to the lords of the Admiralty. The same gentleman also stated that he was informed
429l.l.l.l.l.l.428l.427Mr. Wardle
 objected to the term, "fraudulently made use of," and proposed, that instead of "use of," should be substituted, "away with," so that the words would then be "fraudulently made "away with."—On the question being put,Mr. H. Thornton
 said, that after the statement which an hon. member had made of existing abuses in the Barrack department, he should support his motion respecting them, but he should oppose the production of the correspondence between the first lord of the Admiralty and Mr. Butt, as no specific charge was made against lord Barham.—The first motion was then put and negatived without a division.Mr. Hiley Addington
 said, the hon. member might as well move for a committee of the House, to take into consideration the salaries allowed to every clerk in the different offices under government, and that, too, without any case made out. If the hon. gent. however, would come forward with any specific case, or with any corrupt charge, he should be ready to second his motion.Mr. R. Ward
l.l.l.430, observing that the hon. gent. had divided the object of his motion in his notice under two heads, one as relating to the admiralty, the other to the barracks, said, that of course it could not be expected that he could speak to the latter part. As to what had been said by the hon. member relative to the case of Mr. Butt, he must be allowed to say, that he misrepresented the case itself, as much as he had done what he (Mr. Ward) had communicated to him on that subject since his coming to the House that day. The hon. member had represented him as having said, that the practice he denounced, namely, the sale of offices, was not an abuse. Now, he had never said so, nor was he of that opinion. He had asked for the date of the case respecting Mr. Butt, because he had never before heard of it. He supposed it, however, to have been a case of the sale of an office. Such a case, he knew, was abstractedly an abuse; but, if the practice was sanctioned by long usage, it could not justly have been considered criminal in those concerned in it. As well might it be considered criminal in judges to sell offices in the courts of law, though the parliament recognized their right to dispose of them for money. The noble person whose name had been mentioned by the hon. gent. Could, he was convinced, have no objection to the fullest investigation of every transaction which took place during his official service. But before the House should sanction such an inquiry, it was bound to see that good grounds were laid for it. What was the fact? In 1786, a Committee was appointed to inquire into the extent and propriety of fees. Lord Barham, then sir C. Middleton, who was at the head of the navy board, and the other commissioners of that board, were examined before the Committee, and fairly and openly stated that their salaries were made up in part of gratuities and fees received in consequence of the practice alluded to. The report of the Committee declared that the practice was a bad one, but not that the exercise of it was an abuse or criminal in any of those who had been concerned in it. The words of the report were, "That the practice of receiving
l.l.l.430Mr. R. Ward
 said, he knew nothing more of the transaction than that the captain, to whom he supposed the hon. baronet had alluded, was brought to a court-martial for the fact stated, had been found guilty, and sentenced by the court-martial to dismissal from the service. That sentence had since been carried into effect, and the board had it not in its power to do more.Mr. R. Ward
 should vote for the papers, on the ground of what had been stated by his hon. friend, and the two friends of the noble lord.Mr. Whitbread
 said, all considerations being equal, he should certainly wish to give the preference to seniority; but if there could be any one thing more ruinous than another it would be to act on this as a general principle, particularly in public offices. It would go the length of saying, that a person who was the senior must be preferred even over one of the greatest capacity.—The motion was put and negatived without a division.Mr. D. Giddy
 hoped that the hon. gent. would withdraw his opposition to the motion, because, as the question had been brought forward, it would he much more reputable for the noble person alluded to, that a full and thorough investigation of the case should take place. As the friend of that noble lord, he wished that the inquiry should proceed, and should be sorry that any proceeding in that House should prevent the question from being placed in the clearest possible light. He could state of his own knowledge, that all the arrangements for reform which had been adopted subsequently to the report of 1786, had been introduced at the express desire of lord Barham. In short, that noble person, at the time, consented to remain in office only on the condition that these reforms should be carried into effect.Mr. Wilberforce
 begged to state, that when he was secretary to the admiralty, it was the anxious wish of lord Mulgrave, that the same regulations which prevailed in the navy pay-office and in the admiralty, might also be adopted in the navy office. But from the constitution of the establishment of the clerks, it was found, after an attentive investigation of the case, that these regulations could not be introduced into the pay-office, without a considerable sacrifice of expence. In this opinion too the commissioners of Naval Revision concurred. This statement he felt it his duty to make, and he hoped it would be satisfactory to the hon. gent.Mr. W. Pole
 moved that this bill be recommitted. The House having resolved into the Committee,Sir John Newport
435l.l. expressed some surprise at this delicate sensibility on the subject of penalties when they approached a public office, where the son or the brother of a great man might be affected. He had stated on a former occasion the circumstance of a collector, who had absconded with 27,000435l.l.Sir John Newport
l.l.439l. of Scotland rose, to move for the production of certain papers relative to the produce of the taxes in Scotland. He had been induced to submit to the House a motion on the subject, from an assertion that had been made on a former occasion by the noble lord opposite, (Mahon), stating that the Property Tax of Scotland was by no means proportionably productive to that of England, or to the amount of the other taxes in Scotland. This mistake must have arisen from two grounds, to which he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House. In the first place, the noble lord had taken his estimate of the Income Tax in Scotland from the produce of 1806, when that duty was only 6½ per cent. and had compared it with that of England, of a subsequent year, when the duty was 10 per cent. A second ground of mistake, that had been entirely overlooked by the noble lord, was the circumstance of much of the Income Tax for Scotland being payable in England, and which of course being added to that of England, had a two-fold operation in producing this erroneous statement, adding to that of England what did not strictly belong to it, while it deducted from that of Scotland in the same proportion. From the papers he should move for, it would appear, that in 1808, the net assessment of the Income Tax was 800,000l.l.439l.The Lord Advocate
 for Scotland had the satisfaction to inform his hon. friend, that this subject had attracted the attention of government, and was at present under the consideration of his Majesty's ministers.The Solicitor General
 presented the following Message from his Majesty:The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.444443l.442441 rose, and said, that in consequence of his Majesty's most gracious Message, recommending to that House, the grant of a pension to lord Wellington, it would not be necessary for
l.444443l.442441The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose and spoke against the motion, on the ground that the battle of Talavera was followed by none of the consequences of victory, and rather displayed ill-judged rashness on the part of lord Wellington, than deliberate and skilful valour. He contrasted the battle of Talavera with lord Nelson's decisive victory at Aboukir, for which that great man was only raised to the peerage; with a pension only equal to what was now proposed. How different were the two battles! The hon. gent. dwelt strongly on the impropriety of the advance of the army to Talavera, and urged the retreat and disasters which followed the action, as grounds for withholding the pension.Mr. Howard
l.450449 was never more surprised than he was, first, at the opposition to the Resolution, and next to the mode in which that opposition was made. When gentlemen had the speech of his noble friend (lord Castlereagh) fresh in their recol-
l.450449Mr. Robinson
451 thought that his hon. friend (Mr. Calcraft) went too far in saying lord Wellington might in time become an excellent officer. He had unquestionably given most convincing proofs of his already being not only an excellent but a distinguished officer. He had not met in the course of his connections with a single military man who had not agreed that lord Wellington was a very distinguished military character. With respect to the affair of Talavera, was it nothing to have stopped the progress of a large French army? was it nothing to have gained such an advantage over an army of twice the number of his own? He thought the merit of lord Wellesley deserved every praise; but if it came to be compared with that of lord Nelson at the
451Mr. Lyttleton
l.452 thought himself called upon to make a few observations. With respect to the operation on the Douro, lord Wellington had most judiciously pressed upon Soult, for the purpose of forcing him to fight on very disadvantageous terms, or to retreat with great loss, and his retreat was actually attended with the loss of his baggage, cannon, &c. and 5 or 6,000 men. His hon. friend (Mr. Calcraft) was under a complete mistake as to the real object of the operation. If lord Wellington had not pressed so hard upon Soult, the consequence would have been, not as his hon. friend imagined, the intercepting of Soult by general Beresford, but the allowing him to escape without any loss at all; for Soult was not so blind as to have remained in his position till general Beresford could have been prepared to intercept him. The consequences that followed lord Wellington's operation there, were equal to those that would have followed from a very considerable defeat of the enemy's army. As to the retreat from Talavera, he observed, that lord Wellington never intended to have advanced beyond Talavera till circumstances were changed or a decisive oppor-
l.452General Craufurd
454 estimated the value of the battle of Talavera by the impression it had made on the enemy, as expressed in the Moniteur. He was glad that lord Wellington had advanced into Spain; and therefore he could not but consider that blood as well shed which enhanced the reputation of the country, and belied the assertions of our enemy, uniformly cast upon this nation, of being wholly occupied
454Mr. Herbert
456455 said, that there was one circumstance, which, to him, appeared to render the vote, upon the present occasion, particularly objectionable; but, before he proceeded to state it, he should notice some observations that had fallen from an hon. friend of his, upon the subject of party. His hon. friend had declared himself favourable to party; and as it was generally attributed to him (sir
456455Sir F. Burdett
458, spoke in very flattering terms of the military character of lord Wellington; in doing so, he said, he was certain that bespoke the sentiments of the army and even of the enemy himself There were some persons, he was sure, in the country, who would be willing, not only to refuse to support the dignity now granted to lord Wellington, but even to pull down all that was dignified and important in the country. The merits of the person in whose favour they were now applied to, did not rest on one victory; he was not a mere adventurer in search of re-
458Lord Desart
, in explanation, declared, that he would never accept of a subordinate office, (A loud laugh!) A subordinate office, he would repeat, or any office under any administration, the principles and conduct of which he could not fully approve; a prospect which he thought very remote indeed.Mr. Lyttleton
467 said, on a former night he had the honour of following the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, and he perfectly approved of his arguments, but was sorry that on the present night he was obliged to hold a different opinion. He could conceive many cases in which the thanks of the House might be richly deserved and property bestowed, but in which it would be improper they should be followed by hereditary rank. He should also conceive a case, in which it might be proper to confer honours, and yet to withhold what were called the more solid marks of favor. The question then however was, whether there was that value in the services of the noble lord to merit not only the thanks of that House, but also the pension which it was proposed to annex to the title his Majesty had conferred on him. In the course of the debate, comparisons had been frequently made between the battle of the Nile and the battle of Talavera. It had been asked, in a tone of triumph: why have you given two steps in the peerage to lord Wellington, when lord Nelson, for the proudest victory that adorns your naval annals, only obtained a barony? To this he would answer, that it was then, as it is now, his opinion that lord Nelson had not been
467Mr. Canning
 did not mean to deny merit to lord Wellington, but he would say, that his merit was not of such a nature as to deserve such high honours. This was a question of a mixed nature, in part military, and in part prudential, If, upon investigation, it appeared that an officer had led his troops into difficulties, either by his own rashness, or in consequence of the advice of others, he could deserve no thanks for having extricated them. As to any authority or sanction, which the approbation of Ministers might be supposed to give to such an act, it should be remembered, that the ministers who approved of this operation were the very same ministers who had fired the Tower guns for the convention of Cintra. He would ask, and he thought it was only putting the question upon its right footing, could any one rejoice that the battle of Talavera had been fought? Appeals had been made to their liberality; but they ought to consider that it was not their own money they were disposing of, and however liberally they might be inclined to act, if such was the case, they ought to adopt a different policy in the present instance, when economy was their most pressing and important duty.Lord A. Hamilton
 was of opinion, that some enquiry into this subject was desirable, and complained particularly of the slow remittance of the taxes from Scotland. He was not aware that rents were less expeditiously paid in Scotland than in this country, but the mode of collecting the taxes, he was afraid, was not so complete. In the county of Forfar alone, there were not less last year than from 2 to 3,000 appeals. The properly tax was collected from the tenantry, and proved the greater hardship, and a source of such oppression to that class of men.Mr. Horner
465 had as high an opinion of the valour of lord Wellington, as any
465Mr. Henry Smith
440, adverting to the late collection of the Income Tax in Scotland, the duties of 1806 being only collecting, as appeared, id 1809, supposed that this
440Mr. H. Thornton
448l.447446445 observed, that the able speech of the hon. gent. who preceded him, had rendered it unnecessary for him to go as much at length, as he had intended, into the consideration of the question. He congratulated that hon. gent. and the House, on the accession of eloquence and talents which it acquired in that hon. gent. Though what he had to say might not coincide with the sentiments of the majority of that House, nor with the sense of the public, yet no consideration of that kind should deter him from doing what he considered to be his duty. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asserted, that because his Majesty had been advised to advance lord Wellington to the peerage, it would be a deviation from the uniform practice of that House not to add to that honour the grant of a pension. Surely the right hon. gent. could not think of making any comparison between the services of lord Wellington and the services of the distinguished officers to whose cases he had referred, in order to justify the amount of pension proposed to be granted. He could never think to compare the battles of Talavera with the victories of Nelson. Did the right hon. gent. mean to say, that the claims of lord Wellington were equal to those of Sir Ralph Abercrombie, who closed a long life of eminent and meritorious service, by crowning it with a signal and brilliant victory? For himself
448l.447446445Mr. Calcraft
457 said, that the hon. baronet had given a strange reason for opposing the motion, that he knew nothing about military matters. He could not bear to hear, that one who had won fourteen battles, should be refused such a paltry consideration.—What would this country say—what would the common soldiers say—when they found that we made all this talk about conferring upon him the distinctions to which be was so eminently
457Mr. Fuller
453 considered the conduct of lord Wellington, in dashing precipitately forward into Spain, and being thence obliged to fight the battle of Talavera, as a contradiction to all the military principles set down in the history of the most military nations of the world. He was by no means inclined to estimate talent or services, by the direct success or failure of an object; but in viewing the battle of Talavera, he could not overlook that precipitancy in the commander, which made victory unprofitable, and must have made defeat total ruin: for when it was acknowledged, that the success at Talavera only led to consequent calamity, the
453Mr. Barham
, in explanation, said that he never intended to charge lord Wellington with having contracted debts with extravagance; he only argued hypothecally, as supposing such a case to exist.Mr. Whitbread
462461460459 complimented the noble lord on his eloquence, but complained of the manner in which he had treated all those who differed from him in opinion on the present question. The noble lord spoke of persons disgracing themselves by opposing this pension, and attributed gross ignorance, or wilful blindness, to those who could not view the subject in the same light as he did; and spoke of a party who were crying down every thing that was dignified and respectable in the land. He would state for himself, that he never did generally cry down the military talents of lord Wellington as a general, but, on the contrary, had often professed great respect for them; and upon another occasion, the battle of Vimiera, he had most cordially joined in the vote of thanks. As to the particular subject under discussion, so far from this being taken up as a party question, many of those with whom he was generally in the habit of acting warmly approved both of the vote of thanks and the pension now proposed. He must, however, observe, that the charges against members of that House for acting with the spirit of party, came with a very ill grace from so young a member as the noble lord, and more particularly when it was considered that he had begun his political career by accepting a place from ministers, and consequently binding himself to their party and politics. Upon the subject of party in general, he agreed in the opinion which had
462461460459Mr. Whitbread
 was ready to second the motion of the learned lord, and gave him credit for the clear manner in which he had made out his statement. He had made the observation that had been alluded to, from a conviction that the sum he noticed could not be the whole of the Property Tax for Scotland, and that there could not be possibly such a disproportion to that of England. The noble lord had accounted, in a considerable degree, for the disproportion, and he was glad that an enquiry was to take place.Lord Mahon
 assured the House, that, while he had the honour of holding an office under the board of treasury its attention had been called to the subject, in consequence of the small remittances received from Scotland on account of the revenue of that country.Mr. Huskisson
 bore testimony to the military talents of the noble lord. Valour, he was not inclined to account more than a common merit in such an army, and amongst such soldiers as ours, but skill, and discipline, and patience were to be found among the characteristics of this general. Lord Wellington, he believed also was far from rich; he had always been one of the most liberal men that ever existed, and the state of his circumstances was, he imagined, far from adequate to the support of the high dignity to which he was elevated.General Loftus
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.463 said, that he had not intended to have taken any part in the discussion, but he felt it necessary for him to give some explanation on points which the hon. gent. had very properly inquired into. He must allow, that the hon. gent. had taken up the subject very fairly and manfully, and that, while he discharged his public duty, he had not spoken of the noble lord in any manner which could hurt the feelings of those who thought most highly of him. The hon. gent. had, however, given a military opinion of the military merits of his noble relation. Now, upon this subject he would only say, that he was content to rest the military fame of lord Willington, on the opinion of the army in general, and on the opinion delivered in that House by a distinguished general, and the opinion formerly delivered in that House by a very gallant officer (gen. Ferguson), who had served under him. Resting then the military character of his noble relation on these grounds, he would say that he entirely agreed in the principle laid down by the hon. member, that, it did not follow that the House should grant a pension, although his Majesty had been advised to grant a peerage. He thought the hon. gent. was right in inquiring into
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.463Mr. Wellesley Pole
464 regretted extremely that the House should hesitate to accede to this proposition, or that any difference of opinion should have arisen respecting it. He would ask, whether it was possible that if lord Wellington had devoted the great talents which confessedly belonged to him to the profession of the bar, or to any other liberal pursuit in society, he would not have rendered them more productiye—infinitely more productive, than it appeared he had done by actively employing them in the service of his country? Could the country, then, be re-
464Mr. Wilberforce
466 said, that this was a question that was not identified with that which they had before under discussion, that of the thanks of the House to lord Wellington. It did not follow that those who approved of honours being paid to lord Wellington, should agree with the present proposition. He was not one of those who thought they should. He was convinced of the merit of the noble general, and those that wished to detract from it, had nothing to oppose against it, but uncertain demerit. The early part of his campaign was marked with great merit. It was an able and excellent arrangement to attack Soult, and from which that general could not have escaped, if it had not been by accident, and that of a nature lord Wellington could not have foreseen. Marshal Beresford was dispatched, with an efficient force, by a circuitous route, to attack Soult in the rear, which would have effectually cut off his whole army; if it was not also for an accident that could not be foreseen, by the standing of a bridge, which lord Wellington had reason to believe was destroyed. Capt. Ward, an officer distinguished for his services, and who had a perfect knowledge of the Portuguese language, having relatives and friends natives of that country, was sent forward for the purpose; but, when he reached there, the magistrates and populace would not allow him to
466Mr. Windham
 said, that it was in that manlier and in that spirit only that he had supposed him to speak.Mr. Pole
l. said, that though the thanks of the House constituted one of the highest honours they could confer, they were now called on to give a further proof of their approbation. According to this doctrine, the king had nothing to do but to grant a peerage at his discretion, and then demand of the House to vote a pension. At the time this peerage was granted, the noble general had a near relation, high in office, and he supposed it was intended for the gratification of his feelings, as much as for the eminent services said to be performed, that title had been conferred. In former times, much greater services had been performed, and much less rewards granted; but he supposed these honours and rewards were granted rather for the purpose of shedding a lustre on the present administration, than for any very extraordinary merit in the conduct of the person to whom they were given. This was not his reason for opposing it; but seeing nothing in the conduct of lord Wellington, that, in his opinion, entitled him either to a peerage, or the thanks of that House, he would protest against voting him a pension of 2,000l.Lord Milton
474l.l.l.l.473 would assure the noble lord and the House, that no man was more dis-
474l.l.l.l.473Mr. Rose
 seconded the motion.Mr. Foster
469 had intended to take up the subject, but he was glad that it would now be done more effectually: particularly as the chief justice had made the digest, that eminent individual being no less distinguished for his humanity than his legal knowledge. A penitentiary for prisoners merely he approved; but, he hoped, it was not intended as a prelude to the establishment there of the poor laws of England, than which nothing could be more injurious to all ranks of people in
469Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 had a proposition to make. Though he objected to the production of the papers relating to the whole of the ships named in the motion, if the noble lord would move for those relating to any one of them, he should have no objection to the motion, and he thought to bring forward any one case would be quite as fair, but less inconvenient, than the whole.Mr. Rose
478l.l.l.477l. alluding to the pamphlet that had been mentioned, said it contained gross and palpable misstatements. The emoluments of the King's advocate were therein stated to amount to from 25,000478l.l.l.477l.Sir J Nichols,
 thought bringing forward one of the cases would answer every purpose. If there were a distinction of cases he could bring forward two. It would be better than encumbering the House with the whole. He was anxious the calumnies should be met and refuted, but wished the noble lord would seek better information than that contained in the book alluded to. As the falsehood of that work in some parts had been shewn, he hoped the noble lord would be careful what credit he gave to the rest of it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
481480 rose to call the attention of the House to what he thought a gross violation of their privileges. If it should appear to the House as it did to him he was persuaded that no opposition would be made to his motion. Either those privileges existed, or they did not. If they did exist, it was the bounden duty of that House to defend them from those gross end wanton attacks, which not only invaded them but went in a great degree to question, whether they had such privileges or not. The attack, of which he now complained, was not a mere newspaper paragraph, it was a placard stuck upon the walls of the metropolis, challenging the eye of the passenger, and openly defying all consequences. A grosser breach of privilege than the matter contained in that placard, he could not readily imagine; but before he would read to the House the contents of that paper, which he then held in his hand, he could not help making one observation. If that House had privileges to maintain, he thought in his heart it was now high time to assert them. If that House should not take steps speedily to vindicate their privileges which were daily and hourly violated, they would be supposed not to possess them or to want spirit to assert them. He, though the authors of the
481480Mr. Yorke
483482 strongly recommended the propriety of devising some means to promote dispatch in the progress of this inquiry. From the length of time to which it had already extended, and from the manner in which it languished, he was really at a loss to calculate upon the period of its termination, unless there should be considerably more of diligence and activity employed than had yet appeared; unless more of the time of the House were devoted to it. With this view he would propose that the enquiry should take pre-
483482Lord Folkestone
 apprehended, if he was correct in what he had collected from the noble lord's statement, that the paper to which the noble lord referred was not presented through any official minister, but personally to his Majesty. If so, it was a question well worthy of grave and deliberate consideration, whether the objection applying to the form in which the paper was brought before that House, was not such as could not be removed, or qualified by the substance of that paper, whatever that substance might be. He should suppose that all orders from that House, relative to public documents, were addressed to some responsible minister, who was officially answerable for their production; and that all papers of the nature of that under consideration were generally presented to his Majesty through some responsible minister. Great inconveniences, indeed, must obviously result from a different course. But the error, in point of form, with respect to the production of this paper to that House, might, he thought, be easily corrected. To avoid going into any mixed consideration of the form objected to, and the substance of this paper, the simple course was, to correct the form before the paper was read. That course was by withdrawing the paper, and presenting it in a regular way, stating whether the document, of which it purported to be a copy, was presented to his Majesty by the Secretary of State for the war department, or by the noble lord whose signature it bore; and in what capacity, whether as a cabinet minister, or as the Commander in Chief of the Expedition of which it professed to be a Narrative. This line of conduct he humbly submitted to the consideration of the House, as in his judgment, their becoming acquainted with the contents of the paper might, instead of simplifying, tend to make the business more complex than it would otherwise be. The course he proposed appeared therefore to him to be a simple remedy by which they might avoid inconveniences of considerable magnitude.Mr. Canning
484 con-
484The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed with his right hon. friend, that the objection applying to form upon this subject would have been more in time if brought forward before, adding, that he remembered it to have been in contemplation, before he resigned his place in the cabinet, to call upon the naval and military commanders for an account of the proceedings of the campaign. Therefore, the papers before the House being dated only upon the 14th instant, it was calculated to excite some surprize in his mind to see that account come so late.Mr. Canning
485 declared, that the objections which he felt to this paper, were considerably aggravated by a knowledge of its contents. It now appeared to be a special address from the commander of one part of the Expedition, appealing to the judgment of his Majesty without the intervention of any responsible minister,
485Lord Folkestone
 thought the proper time for discussing the question would have been when the motion was made for referring the papers to the Committee. He could not see any objection to its being so referred. The noble lord had found fault with the manner in which the paper had been presented to the House, but he would ask, did not the House call for it by their unanimous vote? With respect to the manner in which the paper was conveyed to the royal presence, my lord Chatham, in his opinion, could not have done less than what he did, for at the time the paper was written, he believed there was no Secretary of State for the war department. (Hear! hear! from the Opposition side, and, What not on the 14th of February?) The right hon. gent. then admitted his mistake. But he would ask, what was there unconstitutional if the paper was presented in the regular way to the King by a cabinet minister, who was also Master General of Ordnance, and a peer of the realm? If ministers had laid the papers on the table uncalled for, then indeed gentlemen might talk of its being presented unconstitutionally (Hear! hear!) The right hon. gent. declared that he did not know what gentlemen meant by the exclamation of hear! hear! If they meant that he did not understand the constitution of his country, they were deceived. If they meant more, why then no expressions of scorn and disdain that he could use to repel such insinuations would be strong enough. (Hear! hear!)Mr. Yorke
487 contended, that there was no one circumstance connected with this paper for which there was not an adequate responsibility. If there was any thing culpable in the character or construction of the paper, was not lord Chatham responsible for it, and was not he himself responsible for the production of the copy to that House? Why then, what could be pointed out that was in any degree unconstitutional in the whole proceedings? Had not lord Chatham or any other individual a right to lay a paper before his Majesty? Nay, had not any peer or privy counsellor a right to
487The Chancellor of the Exchequer
488 was decidedly of opinion, that the proceeding under discussion was extremely unconstitutional. (A laugh on the ministerial benches.) This laugh was perfectly natural from those who were every day in the habit of treating the constitution with contempt. But what could be conceived more unconstitutional or unfair, than that of a military commander going into the king's closet, without the knowledge of any minister, and presenting his majesty a paper justificatory of his own conduct, and criminatory of the conduct of his naval colleague? If such a paper had been in the regular way presented through a responsible minister, it would be by him, as was his duty, submitted to the consideration of his colleagues, who, if they did their duty, would not present it to his Majesty, at least, without apprizing sir Richard Strachan of its contents, and affording him an opportunity to defend himself. What, he would ask, was the course likely to be pursued by the first lord of the admiralty upon such a consultation? He hoped that no man on either side of the House could have a doubt that lord Mulgrave would have immediately communicated with sir Richard Strachan upon the subject of such a paper. If, then, the present case was to serve as a precedent, every man might do what lord Chatham had done, and there was an end of the responsibility of ministers. He submitted it to the wisdom of the Speaker, if any paper of this kind ought to go to the king, save through the constitutional organ? By the constitution, the king could not see a minister on his return from a foreign court, but in the presence of his secretary for foreign affairs; and he appealed to the right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning) if an interview of that description had been advised, while he held the office, whether he would not have resigned? Why, then, should the commander of an expedition on his return have the privilege of going into his Majesty's closet secretly to asperse the character of
488Mr. Ponsonby
 did not think the matter of sufficient importance, to call on the Speaker for a decision, which only seemed to be the forlorn hope of gentlemen, who found their arguments could not bear them out in what they wished. It was impossible to ground a single constitutional argument on their view of the case; and if statements against the navy were contained in the narrative, the navy might gainsay them by a counter statement.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 explained. He was prepared to declare himself responsible, that this was the paper called for by the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, said, that when he was in office, he understood a narrative was to be delivered to his Majesty, but that it was to comprehend both the military and navy; he assured the House it was not his suggestion.Mr. Canning
492 could not agree in the principle laid down by the right hon. gent. who last spoke, as to the responsibility of lord Chatham. If the House thought proper to impeach the noble lord, what evidence of the narrative could they pro-
492Mr. C. W. Wynn
 was of opinion, on constitutional grounds, that the narrative should be put out of sight, or that it should lie dormant on the table; and when lord Chatham came as a witness before the Committee, let it be put in his hand, and if he identified it, the Committee could act upon it.Mr. Bathurst
 then moved, That it should be referred to the Commitee of the whole House on the Expedition to the Scheldt, which was agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
prima facie493 rose, and said, he trusted the House would not be surprised at his delay in giving his opinion; as to his right, it could not be doubted. He had kept back with the intention of forming and giving the best opinion his judgment and ability would allow. The motion of the hon. member, (general Loft) was correct. It had been the custom of that House to believe the averment of any
prima facie493The Speaker
 observed, that it could not be unconstitutional for a minister to deliver a paper to his Majesty, or for a peer of the kingdom to go into the Royal closet. Lord Chatham was the only person responsible, and he could not shrink from that, as the House would make him so.Mr. R. Dundas
 agreed to the proposition of the right hon. gent. and accordingly moved for documents relating to two of the vessels named in the original motion.Lord Cochrane
479l.l.l. in reply, said he only wished the act of parliament on the subject to be complied with. If other proctors were as exorbitant in their demands as the king's, it was because their situation, in consequence of what the other exclusively enjoyed, obliged them to be so. The only way ministers had left to them to justify those he had accused was to shew that the charges he had brought forward were unfounded. He had taken 180 pipes of wine, for which he received 450479l.l.l.Lord Cochrane,
472471l.l.470 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for several papers, with a view to expose abuses prevalent in the Admiralty Court. The proposition he was about to submit would be found worthy of the most serious attention of the House. Had the navy alone been concerned, he believed he should not have obtruded himself upon the House, as he might be considered as a person interested. The habits of his life would have prevented him from coming forward, except in cases where, he thought, the interests of his country were deeply involved; as there were many others more acquainted with the mode of conducting business in that House, to whom ordinary subjects might be left. But there were cases in which it was the duly of every man to come forward, and such a case he conceived the present to be. The interests, the dearest interests of his country, he considered as most materially involved in the event of the proposition he was about to bring forward. If the papers he intended to move for should be granted he would expose a system of abuse unparalleled in this country, beyond any thing that existed in Spain, under the administration of the Prince of Peace. Whether the subject was considered with a view to the saving of the sums of which the public was pilfered; or with a view to the better performance of the duty: whether with a view to the destruction of the commerce carried on to so large an extent on the enemy's coast; or with a view to the encouragement and security of our own trade: whether with a view to the termination of the war by distressing the enemy; or to the terms on which we should be enabled to conclude a peace. In all these points of view this was a matter of primary importance; for in all these repects were the abuses of the Admiralty of the most injurious description. His lordship complained heavily of the monopoly of practice, which was in itself a principal abuse, and the cause of others, and maintained, that an immense saving might be produced by the correction of this and other abuses in the Admiralty Court. There were other minor abuses, which called for the attention of the House, by which the seamen of Greenwich Hospital were defrauded of their just claims. The droits of the Admiralty had been sometimes compromised for comparatively
472471l.l.470Lord Cochrane
 said, as the paper was before them, it was expedient that they should take it into consideration; but the manner in which it came before them, was to be deplored, and he should for ever lament that it was called for at all.Mr. G. Johnstone
486 declared, he must expect to come in for his share of his right hon. friend's scorn and disdain, for he certainly should contend, that not only was the paper introduced into the royal presence
486Mr. Tierney
476475 rose to enter his protest against the speech of the noble lord. He would ask of the House whether it was proper, upon a mere motion for papers, to enter into a wide and unrestricted animadversion upon public characters, as if they were actually under an impeachment, without the regular institution of any charge against them, or any evidence which the accuser himself had taken the trouble to examine. If the noble lord was desirous of preferring a charge against the Court of Admiralty, he should have first maturely considered the nature of the allegation he was about to make, and of the information he should ask for, in order to elucidate the facts he had to urge. The papers for which the noble lord moved, would contain more matter than the whole Report of the Committee of Inquiry on the Scheldt Expedition; and while these immense piles of information remained unread, the characters of public men might labour under the effects of this unprecedented attack. If he understood the noble lord right, he did not mean to pledge himself that the papers for which he had moved, would at all
476475Mr. Stephen
 had no intention of taking the House by surprise, on the contrary, he had given notice of the motion for producing the paper.General Loft
 disclaimed any intention, on the part of his noble friend (lord Chatham,) to reflect upon the navy, whose exertions he always applauded. But the Address referred to, his noble friend was impelled to present in consequence of the unfortunate letter from sir R. Strachan, dated the 27th August.General Loft
 and lord Cochrane rose at the same time.Mr. Whitbread
490 was anxious to speak before the noble lord, whose feelings, as a naval man, must be much agitated by what they had heard. He understood from a right hon. gent. (Mr. Canning) that he, while in his Majesty's service, had suggested a call on lord Chatham, for a narrative of the Expedition. This would have been the proper course; but it was evident the idea had not been persevered in. Upon the face of the paper, it appeared to him that there was not only a condemnation of ministers, but of the noble lord himself. Now was the communication of the noble lord known, or unknown, to ministers? It must have been unknown. It was written in October, and presented in February; between which dates an Address had been presented to his Majesty,
490Mr. Whitbread
l.l. was of opinion the noble lord would have done well to have corrected himself with respect to the income of the King's proctor. The noble lord had said it amounted to 40,000l.l.Mr. Fremantle
 was sorry that the observations which he had heard that night, had been made use of, as they might tend to injure the reputation of officers, who were liable to be brought to court martial.Sir John Ord
489 suggested that there were two distinct questions involved in the present discussion: the one was, the contents of the paper now before them, with which he apprehended they had for the present nothing to do, though the time he trusted was not far distant, when they would form the subject of their most serious consideration; the other, with which alone he conceived they had to do at present, was the
489Mr. Windham
 said, that amongst the charges promulgated in the book alluded to by the right hon. gent. on the opposite side of the House, it was positively asserted that 30 per cent. was charged for the condemnation of a prize; and also, that an officer commanding a frigate, who had taken a prize, and who had objected to pay this exorbitant demand, was told by the proctor, if he did not pay the sum demanded, the ship would be condemned as a droit of Admiralty to the King. When such charges as these went forth, it was highly important to the interests of the public, and he should therefore ask the House if it was not necessary the subject should be looked into, the papers produced, and the calumnies (if such they were) refuted? The King's proctor, in the case of Copenhagen, was first employed by the captors, who had sent in 200 sail of merchant vessels to the ports of England, previous to the commencement of hostilities, and in order to enable him to prove that the ships belonged to the enemy, all the necessary papers were transmitted. In the course of a few days however, hostilities commenced, and the property was declared to belong to the Danes, and in the course of three days, was given by the Admiralty Court to the King as a droit. Under such complicated circumstances, the argument that only one proctor should be employed, was ridiculous, as one man would be advocating the cause of two individuals, of opposite interests, at the same time. He hoped the noble lord would persevere in moving for the papers, but confine himself as much as possible to those documents which were most easily furnished, and most likely to attain the object he had in view.Sir C. Pole
 then rose to make his promised motion on the state of the prisons and on the prison laws of Ireland. He observed that the report of the commissioners who had been appointed to investigate this subject, sufficiently shewed the lamentable state of the prisons in Dublin. It was shocking to humanity, that the evils detailed in that report had so long been permitted to exist without any steps having been taken to remove them. A considerable part of those evils originated in the crouded state of the prisons; a circumstance which arose from the accumulation in them of persons sentenced to transportation, but whom it had been found impossible to send to Botany Bay. By the correspondence just laid upon the table, it would however appear, that since the report to which he alluded had been made, the condition of the prisoners had been considerably ameliorated. The prison laws of Ireland were contained in 14 acts of parliament. It had been thought advisable to compress these into one. The subject had been referred to the consideration of the great law officers, and particularly to the Chief Justice of the Kings Bench, in Dublin, who was at present engaged in digesting a system of prison law, for the purpose of its being introduced into the bill, which he hoped the House would allow him to bring in. He concluded by moving for leave to bring in a bill to repeal the laws respecting prisons in Ireland, for the purpose of reenacting several of them, with amendments.Mr. W. Pole
 could not help considering the contents of this paper as a direct reflection upon the Commander in Chief of the naval part of the Expedition, who, would, he was satisfied, be found fully able to vindicate his conduct. As to the change which had taken place in the original plan of attack upon Walcheren, he was enabled to state, that that change was determined upon at Deal, in consequence of information there obtained; and the determination, with the causes which recommended it, was communicated to lord Chatham, who fully approved of it. Therefore, if there was any blame imputable to the change, the noble lord must take his full share of it. The honourable officer dwelt upon the zeal, energy, and judgment displayed by Sir Richard Strachan, throughout the whole of the Expedition—upon his eagerness to consult, and his wishes to forward every suggestion of the noble earl from whom this statement proceeded. After such experience, he was surprised and sorry now to see the apple of discord thrown down. But neither the gallant admiral nor any member of the profession to which he had the honour to belong, could possibly allow such charges as this paper contained to pass unanswered or without the most scrupulous and comprehensive inquiry.Sir Home Popham
 asked how the Court of Admiralty could possibly be answerable for such accounts of the agents? What ground could there be then for the indiscriminate charge made by the noble lord? And yet the contents of papers or accounts for which the Court of Admiralty could not be held responsible, had been the ground on which the noble lord founded all his invective. The noble lord was a prompt accuser. He had been an accuser not alone of individuals, but an accuser of courts of justice. He had, however, been an unfortunate accuser; and he (sir W. Scott) pledged himself, by all the credit which he might have obtained during the many years that he had sat in that House, that the noble lord would prove as unfortunate in this accusation as in any preceding one.Sir W. Scott
496 went over the same ground of argument as on the former occasion.
496Mr. Marryatt
 moved the order of the day for the attendance of J. Dean, the printer at the bar.Mr. Yorke
. It was I that printed that paper. I was employed to print it by John Gale Jones. I have been employed by him in printing such papers for three or four years. I did not know that in printing that paper I was committing an offence against this honourable House. That paper was printed without my knowledge of its contents, as I did not see the press copy of it until after the whole impression was thrown off. I humbly beg pardon of this honourable House for my offence, and am ready to give up the manuscript, and to prove that it is the hand-writing of John Gale Jones.John Dean
nem. con. expressed his satisfaction, that the person at the bar appeared sensible of his offence, and not only expressed contrition, but offered to make the only atonement in his power by giving up the author of this gross libel. Every gentleman must allow, that it was a breach of the privileges of that House. He thought that printers should be made to feel, that they could not print such libels with impunity. In this case, the individual could not but have known, that, in printing such a paper, he was doing wrong. In consideration, however, of his submission, he did not mean to press for any severity towards the printer. But, whatever it might be the pleasure of the House to do with the printer, he should feel it his duty to take measures to have John Gale Jones brought to the bar.nem. con.Mr. Yorke
 expressed a wish to hear the opinions of other gentlemen as to the course that should be followed. He supposed the next step should be to move that he be ordered into the custody of the Serjeant at Arms.Mr. Yorke
, after what had been stated from the chair, felt inclined to concur with his right hon. friend, that the person should be ordered into the custody of the Serjeant at Arms. As the person at the bar, however, had offered to give up the actual author of the libel, he wished the House to be as lenient to him as possible.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
particeps criminis.499 was not shaken by what he had heard as to his original opinion. On the contrary, what had fallen from his right hon. friend rather confirmed him in that opinion. If the practice had been going on for a length of time, it was necessary to take measures to put a check upon it. He was inclined to be as little severe as possible, but some punishment must be inflicted. He was sure it was not the intention of his hon. friend, to give countenance to such a practice, though it would obviously have that effect. If the persons who committed such offences should find that there were gentlemen in that House to protect them, they would be encouraged to proceed. To keep the man in custody for the advantage of his evidence, was no more than was done uniformly in case of
particeps criminis.499The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the question simply was, whether the punishment should be severe or lenient. He thought this printer had shewn every mark of contrition: and he begged the House to recollect, that printers had of late years been obliged to sign their own accusation in the first instance, by giving their name and address at the end of every thing they print. It had therefore been held, in the courts of law, that where a printer willingly gave up his employer, the author, the most lenient punishment should be inflicted. On this ground, as well as from the printer's whole behaviour while before the House, he should vote for his being now reprimanded and discharged.Lord Porchester
 moved the order of the day for the second reading of this bill.Mr. Rose
 opposed it, on the ground that the same reasons did not exist now as did when the bill was first brought in. The situation of the West India merchants was much changed; and as the ground was altered, they should shew new reasons for the bill. The average prices of corn, except wheat, were lower now than in 1808.Mr. Western
s. said, that if the importation of corn had not taken place, the quartern loaf would now have been at 2s.Mr. Rose
 thought it his duty to state to the House what had been its practice on similar occasions. The last case of this description which occurred, was that of Wiikie, and in that instance the offender had been ordered into custody. The House having voted, that the person at the bar had been guilty of a high breach of its privileges, could not pass over the offence without some degree of imprisonment, in order to shew printers that they could not commit such offences with impuity.The Speaker
497. You may withdraw.
497The Speaker
 interrogated him.The Speaker
. John Dean, a complaint having been made to this House, that you had printed a paper reflecting upon its proceedings, and upon the conduct of some of its members, what have you to say for yourself respecting the offence you have committed?The Speaker
 proposed, that he should be taken into the custody of the serjeant at arms for an hour.Mr. C. Adams
 congratulated the right hon. gentleman on the recovery of his animation in argument and debate. He had risen from that languor and chastened tone, which he had hitherto employed in discussing the most important political questions; but perhaps he had now found a subject more to his mind. The only question now to be considered was, what was the extent of the offence, and what should be the measure of punishment? He was of opinion that the more lenient the punishment, the more suitable it would be to the dignity of the house.Mr. Horner
498 thought that the printer deserved some consideration. It would be more dignified in the House to order
498Mr. H. Smith
 observed, that the House had no security but his own assertion, that the statement of the person at the bar was correct. It might, therefore, be necessary to keep him in custody till the truth of his statement could be ascertained.Mr. Croker
 opposed it on the ground that the establishment proposed would be an invasion of the chartered rights of the existing companies. He should not object, however, to going into a committee, if it were to be an open one.Mr. Grenfell
 felt that, after what the Speaker had stated, it would be necessary to take some further notice of the offence than was proposed in the amendment of the hon. gent. If that hon. member would withdraw his amendment, then he should propose an amendment, that the person at the bar be reprimanded by the Speaker, and discharged.—The other amendment having been withdrawn, the hon. gent. then proposed his amendment.Mr. Whitbread
 rose to revive his motion of a former night, for a committee to inquire into the present state of Marine Insurance, and to enquire in what manner the public might be better accommodated. He said, he rose in consequence of the fate of his proposition on a former night, from the state of the House, to renew his motion for the appointment of a select committee, to consider of the act of Geo. I. for incorporating the London and Royal Exchange Assurance Companies, and also of the state of the means of effecting marine insurances in London. The hon. gent. repeated the arguments and statements with which he prefaced his motion on the former night, and concluded with moving, that a select committee be appointed.Mr. Manning
 denied that the average prices were higher now than in 1808, and contended that they were the prices of a falling market. In the London market inferior barley was absolutely unsaleable. He was of opinion that the prohibition should not be continued.Mr. Parnell
 objected to the prohibition.Sir James Hall
sub silentio. was of opinion, that such offences as those of the person at the bar might be suffered to pass sub silentio.Sir J. Anstruther
 also stated, that the prices were those of a falling market.Sir John Newport
 was for continuing the prohibition, as he considered the average price of all manner of corn, taken together, as greater than what it was in 1808. As his property was entirely in land, it could not be supposed his wish to sacrifice his interest to those of the West India merchants. He thought, however, that the interest of the great mass of labouring peasants and manufacturers should be attended to, and that care should be taken that they should not be affected by a scarcity of corn, he thought also, in justice, that the prohibition should extend to Ireland.Sir T. Turton
 moved the order of the day for bringing Mr. John Gale Jones to the bar. Mr. Jones being brought accordingly,Mr. Yorke
 answered, I acknowledge, Sir, that I was the author of that paper, and I am extremely sorry the printer has experienced any inconvenience on my account.Mr. Jones
502 then rose and said, that after the vote just passed, he thought it impossible the House should not follow it up by some further resolution, which should mark its own sense of the insult offered to its high authority, by the person now at the bar, and by making a proper example, warn such persons from taking upon them to comment in such a way upon the proceedings of that House, and the conduct of its members. As to himself, he could appeal to the opinions of those who knew him best, whether during the twenty years he had been a member of that House, he had ever evinced a disposition for personal severity. If an hon. baronet, who made some observations on this subject last night, were now in his place, he should say something in answer; but as he was absent, he should refrain. For the present, he should only say, that from the frequency of those comments, insulting to the dignity of that House and the persons of its members, which had of late prevailed, he thought it high time some measures should be adopted effectually to check such proceedings; and, that the House should mark its sense of its own dignity on the present occasion, by inflicting some exemplary punishment on the person at the bar. He therefore moved, That John Gale Jones, for his
502Mr. Yorke
 then adverted to the case of John Dean, the printer, who attended at the bar yesterday, and was now in the custody of the Serjeant at arms, and said, that from the manner in which Dean had conducted himself, the readiness with which he gave up the name of the author of the libel in question, the contrition he had shewn for his offence, and the consideration that he was an honest and industrious man, with a family, and not in affluent circumstances, he should now move that he be discharged without paying fees.Mr. Yorke
501.—"I sincerely lament that I
501Mr. Jones
nem. con. then addressed the House, and put the question, "That the said John Gale Jones, in having been the author of the said paper, and having caused the same to be printed, has been guilty of a gross breach of the Privileges of this House." This question was carried nem. con.The Speaker
 said, he understood the prisoner was prepared to comply with the usual forms of the House, by presenting a petition praying for his release.The Speaker
.—Repeat what you have said.The Speaker
.—Have you any thing more to say in your behalf?The Speaker
 addressed him as follows:—"John Gale Jones; a complaint having been made to this House of the publication of a scandalous and libellous handbill, reflecting on the proceedings of this honourable House, and the conduct of certain of its members; and the printer of the said hand-bill having been called to the bar of this House to answer for the said publication, alledged that you are the author thereof. What have you to say in your behalf?"The Speaker
 moved that the order of the day for the House going into a Committee on the policy and conduct of the Expedition to the Scheldt be read.Lord Porchester
summum bonum,538 could not think the conduct of the noble lord, and of gentlemen who sat on the same side of the House with him, at all consistent with the principles they professed. They boasted that they were actuated solely by a view to the good of the country, and he had no reason to doubt their sincerity, but at the same time they were for pushing on the Inquiry now before the House to the prejudice and delay of other important business, in which the public interest was deeply concerned. He took it for granted that their real object was the removal from office of his Majesty's present ministers. If that was a measure calculated to do good to the public, the advantage to be derived from it could only be of a prospective nature; while by the delay of other business requiring instant dispatch, immediate loss and inconvenience would be occasioned. There were now before the House for discussion, on this night, regulations of trade and revenue, which must be interrupted by acceding to the motion of the noble lord, and from such delay considerable
summum bonum,538Mr. Wharton
540 thought the fair ques-
540Lord G. L. Gower
 declared, that next to the object of his motion for supporting the order of the House, was his wish to accommodate lord Chatham, for whose examination this day was set apart; and to whom he had given an intimation that his lordship's attendance would be expected. Lord Chatham had assured him, that the ill state of his health would not allow of a very late attendance. His lordship was now in the lobby, waiting to be called in. His own anxiety, therefore, was chiefly on account of lord Chatham, to whom an unnecessary detention till one or two in the morning would not be very kind; and this too, for no other purpose than to shew that ministers had influence enough upon a new division, to set aside an order of the House.Lord Porchester
 could not consent to give a silent vote on the present occasion. His noble friend (lord G. L. Cower), he was satisfied, could not have been present at the beginning of the discussion, else he could not have thought the proposition of the noble lord opposite so very fair and reasonable. It might so turn out that the examination of lord Chatham might not be finished within the time appointed, and would it be consistent with justice to any of the parties, that the evidence should be interrupted the moment it was eight o'clock, probably in the midst of some important explanation?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then stated that the circumstances of England and Ireland were widely different. In Ireland there was a superabundant supply of grain; in England and Scotland it was quite the reverse. It was not therefore his intention to move that the bill do extend to Ireland; but in lieu thereof to move for the continuance of the act prohibiting the importation of spirits from Ireland.Mr. Rose
542 claimed precedence for the Resolution of which he had given prior notice, for extending the Bill for prohibiting the distillation from grain to Ireland.—After some conversation Mr. Rose acceded, and withdrew his motion for the present. The noble lord then moved a Resolution that the Bill do extend to Ireland. If there was such a superabundance of grain in Ireland his lordship asked, how it happened that special licences were granted to import grain into this country from France? The plan was in itself bad, and almost afforded an answer to the allegation. He wished
542Lord Hamilton
 assured his noble friend, that he was misinformed as to the opinion of the people in Ireland on this subject. There was no one thing in which they were so unanimous as in their opposition to the prohibition now proposed to be extended to that country. The noble lord's proposition went to affect the vital interests of Ireland. The local interests of England were best known and would be best protected by those who were connected with particular districts. He must assert the same right for Ireland, and must contend that her interests were not to be sacrificed on account of the northern parts of this country, or the West India planters. He stated that in another respect, this matter was important, there being no fewer than 1,300 or 1,400 families who depended on this manufacture for a livelihood.Mr. Hutchinson
 spoke against the Resolution. The produce of this year in Ireland had been abundant; there was besides a great deal of old corn still in the granaries of Dublin, and distillation alone would afford an adequate encouragement to the agriculture of that country.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 declared his hostility to all modes of partial legislation, and thought it highly improper to oppose the interests of one part of the country to those of another. Should distillation from grain be allowed in Ireland, while prohibited in this country, the consequence would be, that the grain would go from this country to Ireland, and be returned in spirits, which would, at the same time defeat the object of the bill, and do injustice to the Scotch and English distillers.Sir C. Burrell
 thought the measure of exemption in favour of Ireland, was a violation of the Union, and that the same regard was due to the landed interests of this country, as to those of Ireland. The Union, he contended, had been of great benefit to the landed property of Ireland, land being now in that country worth one fourth more than before the Union. He was at a loss to know why Ireland, enjoying equal advantages from the Union, should not be treated in the same way as England or Scotland. It had been stated, that if exemption was not conceded to Ireland, the revenue of that country would be much deteriorated. This reasoning he thought went to shew that it was the wish of those, gentlemen who resorted to it, that the poor people in Ireland should contribute the greater part of the revenue through the medium of spirits which had a tendency to destroy both their health and morals: He did not think that the superabundance of grain in Ireland had been sufficiently made out, else why was it not sent to this country at a time when government were affording every facility to the import of corn from the continent? If grain was really lower in price at present, than it had been in that country, was it proper to deprive the people immediately of that advantage, after the great privations they had been obliged to submit to? The interests of the West India planters was a very fair object of consideration; the intercourse between the West Indies and this country being a profitable traffic, in which no money was required from this country in return for the valuable produce of the West Indies, but such articles only as were the produce of our own trade and manufactures. Our importation of corn from the continent was an encouragement to France, and certainly under such circumstances it became our duty to husband our own resources.Sir R. Peel
 contended, that, from the evidence afforded by the petitions on the table of the House, it was necessary to admit that there was a superbundance in Ireland. There was at least no evidence to the contrary; and why should Ireland be deprived of the advantage of distilling from her own grain, not with a view to reserve the surplus for herself, but for the use of others? By denying the exemption, he contended that they would also ultimately injure the interests of this country, by discouraging the agriculture of Ireland, and eventually depriving this country of that source of supply.Mr. Graltan
 was against the prohibition altogether, but if such a measure were continued, he should certainly oppose any exemption. There was a great deal of barley in the country that would not malt for beer, from the bad condition it was in, but which might answer very well the purposes of distillation.Sir W. W. Wynn
551550l.l.l.l.l.l.l.549l.l.l.l.548l.l.547546 rose and said: Sir, the right hon. gent, who has just sat down considers the exemption of Ireland as a measure at best called for by her local interests, in opposition to the general interests of the United Kingdoms, and he further seems to think, that the mere circumstance of prohibiting the distilleries in this country involves in itself the necessity of prohibiting it also in the other. Sir, I differ from him on both these grounds; I think the question of the prohibition as it relates to Ireland, is to be determined by reasons totally distinct from those which are to determine the expediency or inexpediency of continuing it here, and it further appears to me that the repeal of it in Ireland, is called for by the general interests of the Empire more, if possible, than by the local interests of Ireland. It has long been the habit at least, if not the policy of this country to depend upon its
551550l.l.l.l.l.l.l.549l.l.l.l.548l.l.547546Mr. Leslie Foster
552 could not concur with the motion of the noble lord. Though the measure of prohibition met with his approbation, and became necessary in the present state of the corn-market, there was, however, a considerable quantity of damaged grain in the country unfit for general use; and this grain, he conceived the permission to distill in Ireland would take out of the market, and give the farmer in this country an opportunity of disposing of it both to the public, and his own
552Mr. Western
 was hostile to the proposition made by the noble lord, though he agreed with many of the arguments that had been offered on the other side of the question. The truth was, that the agricultural were the only interests that ought not to be meddled with in Ireland, the reasons for which were obvious, though of such a nature as, in his opinion, ought not to be brought before the House. It was allowed that Ireland, from the redundance of her crop, might supply her own distilleries. He therefore thought the exemption ought to granted, though it was his earnest wish that the use of malt liquors were more generally introduced.Mr. R. Dundas
 did not wish to view the question as a local one, but one in which the interests of the whole empire were deeply involved. They had to feed Portugal, they had to feed the Portuguese government in the Brazils, and they had to support their army in Spain. In such circumstances it became them to be particularly frugal of their resources, and to present unnecessary waste of grain. He should therefore give his vote for the noble lord's motion.General Tarleton
545 had concurred both in 1803 and 1809 in the restriction, not from any regard to the interest of the West India merchants, but from a conviction that in the circumstances of the country, shut out in a great measure from the Continent, and our relations with America appearing precarious, such a measure was essential to secure our own independence, and to guard against any probability of scarcity. Viewing the subject in that light, he thought then as he did now, that the prohibition should be universal. Had it not been for the importation, he had no doubt that the quartern loaf would have been at two shillings. A great part of the North and West of England, and the Wrest of Scotland, depended in a great measure on Ireland for supply of oats, which was the food of the common people employed in manufactures, and during the last year that the exemption had been granted to Ireland, the supply from that country had been much less than in the preceding years. Not only was that the case, but he was assured that several persons had come over from Ireland last year, to make purchases in Scotland, after the expectation was entertained of having the prohibition removed. He would therefore suggest the propriety, should the exemption be thought expedient, of preventing the exportation
545Mr. Boyle
 saw no cause whatever, nor any change of circumstances since last night, that could make it necessary to forego the order agreed on.Mr. Tierney
 did not consider this to be a question whether inquiry was intended or likely to be defeated. If he did he should readily concur in the motion of the noble lord, for reading the order of day. It was said, that one object of the inquiry was to turn out ministers; he believed there was another object which went hand in hand with it, namely, the placing certain other gentlemen in their situations. This might create an impatience natural enough on the part of the gentlemen who stood in this situation; but he could not consent, that, to gratify their feelings the whole public business of the country should be adjourned. When he was farther told that punishment was expected to follow, as well as removal from office, he felt himself still more imperiously called .on, not to decide without the most dispassionate and impartial consideration. When the House heard that they might be called on not only to remove ministers from office, but even to impeach and punish them, they would see additional ground for calm deliberation, and feel convinced that they should not proceed rashly, or without having fully and maturely considered the evidence on which they were to decide.Mr. Stephen
 approved of the motion, and recommended to the gentlemen of the sister kingdom, if they wished to improve the agriculture of the country, to reside more upon their estates, and shew more kindness and cordiality to the people, instead of kicking and beating them about. He never decided upon any question without informing himself upon it, as well as he could at least; and he always found it the safest way to be guided by the sentiments without doors, rather than the professions made within. If an honest man, unconnected with either the party that wanted to get in, or the party that wanted to stay in, was anxious to know the real state of the case, he should be (said Mr. Fuller) equally indifferent to what fell from your side (pointing to the Opposition) and to what fell from your side, (pointing to the Ministerial), but go out of the House, and consult with honest, impartial men like himself, to enable him to form a just and fair decision.Mr. Fuller
539 said, that in two points only he must coincide with the hon. gent., namely, that to-morrow was future, and also that his noble friend, and those who sat on the same side of the House with him, thought they had the good of their country at heart. He begged the hon. gent.'s pardon: he must agree with him in one other remark; that they wished for the removal of the present ministers. They did so, and not only did they desire their removal, but their punishment also. The hon. gent. said, it could be of little consequence when this was effected. When, however, they saw the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer associated with earl Chatham at the head of the Ordnance, and lord Mulgraveat the head of the Admiralty, concerting measures for sending out fresh troops to Portugal and Cadiz, was it not reasonable that they should desire to bring the inquiry to as speedy a termination as possible. They did not, however, wish that other business should be postponed. On the contrary, delay seemed altogether to be the object of the gentlemen on the other side, and a studied system of machinery seemed to have been adopted for this purpose. He begged to remind the hon. gent., that his noble Iriend was in possession of a vote of the House, giving the precedence to his motion, which vote had not been rescinded. It was somewhat remarkable to observe the unwillingness gentlemen opposite shewed to proceed in the inquiry. At ten o'clock the other night, their constitutions were so exhausted, they could not submit to have a few questions put to sir Eyre Coote; finding themselves, however, nearly run, one right hon. gent. the secretary for the Home Department got up and made a speech, which, having heard of such a thing as debating against time, he must
539Mr. Whitbread
 did not suppose that the motion of the noble lord was made with the view to prevent the Distillery bill from coming on; the only question was whether the one or the other was most fit to be first discussed. The necessity of a speedy disposal of the Distillery bill must be apparent to every one. Was it clear that four hours would serve to exhaust the evidence of lord Chatham? Last night the evidence finished at ten o'clock, but then there was an alter discussion of several hours; and did gentlemen not think that there might be the same sort of discussion to night as to the particular time at which it should come on again.Mr. Manners Sutton
 opposed the motion, as contrary to the letter and spirit of the act of Union, and to the vital interests of Ireland. When by the Union Ireland was merged into the united kingdom, and contributed but about a sixth to the representation of the whole in the imperial parliament, he thought it would be grossly unfair that the great mass of the representatives returned for England should take upon themselves to construe the act of Union according to what they conceived the spirit of it, and which construction was always to the disadvantage of Ireland. The imperial parliament had never yet interfered to construe* the act of Union favourably to Ireland, and in two markable occasions had construed it against the interest of Ireland. He had been represented as wishing to propose a war of prohibitions; he had only said, that it would be just as fair that Ireland should prohibit the importation of those manufactures in which England happened to have the advantage, as that England should prohibit the importation of every thing in which Ireland happened to have any advantage.Sir J. Newport
544 sincerely joined in the wish that all distinctions between the two countries were destroyed, and the most free and complete intercourse effected. He admitted the principle that nothing was more pernicious than a continual interference with the corn trade, and had contended, on a former occasion, that the prohibition of distillation from grain was prejudicial to all parts of the Empire. He could not, therefore, now be accused of inconsistency in pleading an exemption for Ireland, when a scarcity of grain was
544Sir J. Newport
—I wish to make a single observation upon the subject of this Petition. I am one of the Benchers of the society of Lincoln's-Inn; but I do assure the House, that, so far from approving of this resolution, it was passed absolutely without my consent. I am, and ever was of opinion, that there ought to be no objection against any person being admitted to the bar, but an objection founded on his moral character. This is the only restriction which shall ever have my concurrence. I have to add, that this regulation has been sent to all the other Inns of Court, and that every one of them has refused to adopt it.Mr. H.Martin.
565 begged it might be distinctly understood that he did not question the right of the House to present an address similar to that proposed by the hon. gent. Admitting this right in its fullest extent, he contended, however, that in the exercise of the right they must be guided by the limits of discretion. One of the last sentences of the hon. gent's, speech would serve as an answer to all that preceded it. The hon. gent. had said, that it was for his Majesty's ministers to consider to what office they would refer in search of the papers which he wished to be produced. Upon this head, he felt no difficulty in stating that there neither was nor had been in any office under government—(Hear! hear! from the opposition side)—He wished to be understood—there neither was nor had been in any office under government any paper, report, memorandum, or narrative upon the subject in question communicated to a single individual of his Majesty's confidential servants, other than that now on the table of the House, and that had not been communicated to them before the 14th of February, the day on which it had been presented by lord Chatham to his Majesty. All the addresses on any subject similar to the present, which the House of Commons had hitherto been induced to carry up to the throne, were either for the production of regularly official papers, to elucidate any measure the expediency of which they questioned, or to ascertain the advisers of his Majesty on any such particular measure. He did not deny the right of the Commons to apply to the crown in any other case, in which they might think fit so to do: but he was persuaded that the motion of the hon. gent. was wholly without example. For even supposing that such a paper as that described by the hon. gent. did actually exist, as it had never been communicated to his Majesty's ministers, he could not understand what possible reply they could advise his Majesty to make to an address from the House of Commons under such circumstances, It
565Mr. Secretary Ryder
567566 declared, that, if the right hon. gent. had not informed the House that he rose to oppose the motion of his hon. friend, and if he had listened to the right hon. gent.'s speech divested of that information, he should have supposed that it was his intention warmly to support it, for there was not a single argument in the whole of the right hon. gent.'s speech, which did not tend to the establishment of his hon. friend's proposition. The right hon. gent. had told the House, that he did not dispute the right of the House of Commons to address the King upon the subject, but to that confession he subjoined the declaration, that if the House were now to exercise that right, he did not know how his Majesty's ministers could comply with the terms of the motion unless by searching the King's private escrutoir. Was this language—was this doctrine for a Secretary of State to his Majesty to hold to a British House of Commons? Did the right hon. gent. a cabinet minister, not know where to find a paper delivered by the commander in chief of an expedition to his Majesty without searching the King's private escrutoir? Did the right hon. gent. think that such a paper was of the nature of a private and confidential communication? If that were the case, every other general who happened to be a favourite, may at any time go up to the King, and privately put into his hand statements tending to prejudice and poison his royal mind against the most brave and meritorious officers, who by this secret proceeding might have their characters most foully calumniated without the least notice or suspicion, and therefore without a possibility of defending themselves. How galling must it be to the feelings of any distinguished officer, to suppose that charges and imputations against him might be poured in secret into the ear of his Sovereign, and the royal mind be thus prejudiced against him? It would be subversive of every principle of justice, or of the constitution, that such papers, placed in the hands of the Sovereign by a minister, should be
567566Mr. Ponsonby
571570569568 avowed himself perfectly ready to expose himself
571570569568The Chancellor of the Exchequer
577576 would feel it necessary to say but a few words upon the subject before the House, and trusted, that what be should say, would procure him the vote
577576Sir S. Romilly
 besought the House to consider the ground upon which the question rested. It had been assumed in argument, that a paper existed containing charges against sir R. Strachan. If it had been the wish of the earl of Chatham to insinuate charges against that gallant admiral, he might have done it in a more effectual manner. What lord Chatham had done in presenting his Narrative was purely in his own vindication. The right hon. gent. then proceeded to justify the Answer which his Majesty had been advised to give to the Address of the city of London, and contended, that if all the circumstances which had since transpired had been then known, they ought to have caused no difference in the terms of that Answer.Mr. K. Dundas
 said, that lord Chatham had evinced, in his examination, no wish to conceal any point connected with the Expedition. He only refused to answer a question which related to his own conduct subsequently, viz. whether he had presented any Narrative to the king, since his command closed? He then argued the two grounds of right and discretion, and also the matter of precedents. The former he conceded; but contended, that the two latter went against granting the motion. He repeated, that the paper did not exist in any public office of the state: and indeed no paper had been specifically called for, or stated to exist, the whole being founded on an assumption and supposition.The Attorney General
579 had thought on a former night, that the narrative ought not to have been produced, but he had on that occasion bowed to the authority of the chair, and felt, on the ground of that decision, that the present motion should be agreed to. Supposing that the motion then, instead of being for that paper, or such a paper, had been for any papers communicated to his Majesty by lord Chatham relative to the Expedition to the Scheldt, he wished to know if ministers would have opposed any such motion. He did not think they would, and if they would not, he could not conceive a reason why they should not agree to the present motion. As to the objection started that the paper was not an official one, he should only
579Mr. Bathurst
582581580 begged the candid attention of the House while he stated to them frankly the reasons that influenced him to give the vote he intended to give upon the question now before them. Perhaps the shortest, the simplest, and the fairest course would be for him to state, that according to the principles he had imbibed from what he had seen of the theory, or known of the practice of the constitution, he was long of opinion, that the more fortunate mode of proceeding would have been in the first instance to have referred the whole question of the conduct of that Expedition to a court of inquiry; not that the decision of that court was necessarily in any degree to bind the judgment or fetter the subsequent proceedings of that House. Opinions were numerous that blame must rest SOUR where, and it was highly important that the country should know to whom it was really imputable. It must, therefore, in the nature of things, have been expected that the conduct of the Expedition would be enquired into. He thought, therefore, it was extremely to be lamented, that his Majesty's ministers had not instituted proper inquiries into both the branches of the service, naval and military, and by that means enabled themselves to come prepared to meet parliament. His Majesty's government would then have placed themselves in a
582581580Mr. Canning
583 was satisfied of the propriety of opposing the motion, upon the very same principles which had been stated by his right hon. friend who spoke last, for supporting it. But, he maintained, that there was no analogy whatever between the two cases quoted by his right hon. friend. For, in the one case, the paper was in existence, and referred to the Expedition to the Scheldt; but in the other case, in that to which the present motion alluded, it did not ap-
583The Solicitor General
 replied to the statements of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and expressed his determination to vote for die Address.Mr. Tierney
575 defended the conduct of lord Chatham. The hon. officer, who just sat down, had laid much stress on the Narrative, and asserted that it was calculated to produce disunion between the army and navy. Could lord Chatham have done otherwise than present it, after the
575General Loft
555554Duo Warranto.553.— Sir, I rise to present the Petition of a gentleman of the name of Farquharson, to which I request the particular attention of the House. I present it with great reluctance, because it contains a grave and serious charge against a respectable body of men, the Benchers of Lincoln's Inn, and alleges, that they have committed an act of grievous and unwarrantable oppression. The Petition states, that the Benchers of the honourable society of Lincoln's Inn have violated the principles of the constitution of the united kingdom, and have usurped the powers of the Legislature, by making a certain rule or bye-law to the following effect:—"1807. That no per-"son, who has written for hire in the "newspapers, shall be admitted to do "exercises to entitle him to be called to
555554Duo Warranto.553Mr. Sheridan
 was not surprised at the warmth of the gallant officer: He did not mean to follow him into the topics he had touched upon, but had risen merely to make an observation upon one point. The gallant officer argued, that unless the paper moved for should be granted, sir Richard Strachan would have no opportunity of vindicating his character from the insinuations said to have been made against it. But he could assure the House that the noble person at the head of the Admiralty, who had not been acquainted with the circumstance of the Narrative having been presented to the king till the night of Wednesday, had lost no time in communicating the transaction to the gallant admiral; at the same time informing him. that if he should deem it expedient, in like manner, to make a statement of the naval proceedings of the expedition, it would be his duty to become the channel for transmitting it to his Majesty. He could assure the House, that it was not the desire of the Executive Department of the navy to call for such a statement; but if sir R. Strachan should think that his own character, and the feelings of the country, required such a statement, he would, of course, prepare it, when furnished with an official copy of the noble earl's Narrative. He had but one word more to add upon the fallacious foundation of the arguments of the hon. gentlemen opposite, when they assumed that to exist, of the existence of which they had no proof, and called upon those on his side of the House to prove a negative, when they were them selves bound to prove the affirmative. If they could shew the official existence of the paper, he was ready to go along with them.Mr. R. Ward
587586also,likewise,also585584sui generis,cujus cunque generis felt, that although he had good reason to be satisfied with the condition of the debate, it was yet necessary for him to offer something upon the observations which the House had heard in opposition to his motion; but as to the learned gent. who spoke last, with the most sincere, unfeigned respect for that gentleman, he would pass him over very lightly. He begged, however, to correct a mistake of that learned gentleman upon one point. He did not want papers 587586also,likewise,also585584sui generis,cujus cunque generisMr. Whitbread
564563562561560559 in rising to make the motion of which lie gave notice, observed, that as many more members were then present
564563562561560559Mr. Whitbread
558557556 after a few prefatory observations, presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of England, setting forth, "That the Petitioners beg leave to represent to the House, that, at the time of his Majesty's accession to the throne, the laws in force against his Roman Catholic subjects deprived them of most of the rights of Englishmen, and of several of the common rights of mankind;; and that, by the acts of the 18th and 31st years of his Majesty's reign, several of the penalties and disabilities under which the English Roman Catholics laboured were removed; and that the English Roman Catholics are most grateful for the relief granted them by those acts, and have taken and subscribed the oaths and declarations contained in them; and that their conduct hath been conformable to their professions; In peaceable submission to the laws, and in the discharge of moral or civil duty, they have not been
558557556Mr. Windham,
574573572 rose for the purpose of submitting a few observations to the House in support of the motion for the Address. He had thought, that, after the course adopted by the House on a former night, with respect, to the production of the Narrative of the earl of Chatham, no argument could have been necessary to induce the House to agree to the motion of the hon. member on the floor. It would be for the House, however, to decide in what manner it should dispose of that motion; but this he would assert, that unless the paper, which it was its object to procure, should be granted, the refusal of it would be productive of much wrong to the gallant officer who had commanded the naval part of the Expedition. That the paper moved for did really exist, he was justified in assuming, because no person during the discussion had ventured to deny its existence. If the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer should even then state to the House, that no such paper existed, he would not say another word on the subject. As the existence of the paper, therefore, was not denied, he must assume that such a paper did actually exist; and if such were the case, he hoped, that the members of that House would feel a sympathy in the situation of the gallant admiral, who was suffering, and would continue to suffer, under the charges insinuated against him, unless, by the production of this document, he should have an opportunity of meeting such charges in every shape in which they could be presented. He felt it difficult to account for the resistance made to the present motion upon any principle of fairness, candour or impartiality. The House would recollect, that the Narrative of the noble earl had been voluntarily produced on a former night, fourteen
574573572Sir Home Popham
578 observed, that no member had denied the existence of the paper moved for: that no person had been found to say, he did not believe that such a paper was in existence. But it had been said that it was not an official paper. Any paper relative to an Expedition which led to the waste of millions, and the death of thousands, could not, he contended, be considered in any other light than as an official paper. If no such paper existed, why should they leave it in doubt whether the commander in chief had calumniated the character of the navy? Was there any danger in saying that the paper did not exist? Could any man believe that there was not danger in leaving this question doubtful? The House had resolved upon the fullest Inquiry into the policy and conduct of the Expedition to the Scheldt. They had entered upon that Inquiry, and what did they now stop at? Evidence. A matter of evidence was suggested which was necessary to the carrying on of that Inquiry to the fullest extent: and now the question was, whether they would take the right steps to
578Sir J. Anstruther
 reported to the House, That his Majesty had been waited upon with their Address of Friday last, to which he had been graciously pleased to direct the following answer to be given:—The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—I was the privy-counsellor that took his Majesty's pleasure upon the Address.The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 without wishing to give any opinion at present upon the answer now given, trusted, that it would be inserted upon the Journals, in order that, if necessary, application might be made to it on a future occasion.Mr. Ponsonby,
 replied, that although it was the ordinary courtesy in that House to answer questions put from one side to the other, yet, from the menacing manner in which the hon. gent. put the question, he felt it his duty to decline answering it, until called upon by the vote of that House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that the full force was effective, but that the obstacle at the time alluded to arose from the state of the new equipments.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 confessed, that he could not possibly see the necessity of any such forbearance. He should therefore move that the Bill be now read a second time.—On this question being put from the Chair,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 spoke in favour of the splendid talents of lord Wellington, whom he thought, highly deserving this annuity.Mr. Hutchinson
l.l.l.l.615 felt disappointed at the statement he had heard. He had trusted, that the burdens of the public, as connected with the army estimates, would have been alleviated to a far greater degree. He conceived it to be the duty of that House to examine very scrupulously every item in the estimates which had been so ably stated by the noble lord. In his opinion there were many items which would not contribute to the effi-
l.l.l.l.615Lord G. L. Gower
617616 could easily conceive the disappointment which any gentleman must experience when his hopes were not realized with respect to the comparative effect. It was easy for those who had not the execution of the plans, and, consequently, not the necessary connection with the offices, to think that their plans might be without difficulty
617616The Chancellor of the Exchequer
624 stated that he was as desirous as man could be of retrenching the expenditure of the country wherever it could be effected without an injury to the interests of the state, but he believed, that few branches of the public offices could at present admit of any material diminution, when we had so powerful an enemy to contend with. The Manx Fencibles had been reduced since 1805, to one-third of their then number, and if it should be deemed advisable, the cavalry could be also reduced; but with respect to the Newfoundland Fencibles, he did not consider that they ought to suffer any diminution from considerations of economy; indeed, additional grants ought rather to be made for the defence of that settlement, for it was not known but that the enemy, if ever an opportunity occurred, would endeavour to take, possession of it. In the time of the American war, France thought it of sufficient importance to send a large regular force there, which plundered the people, and in the space of a few days created a damage of half a million sterling. He readily allowed that many items might be decreased in our expenditure on the home service, but he did not know where to begin. A superintending controul was wanted to point out and abolish the expenses that would admit of it without detriment to the public service, and to check those additional charges which were yearly creeping into existence under whatever
624Mr. Rose
 said, that three modes presented themselves of reducing the expense of our home establishment: 1st, reducing the number of our local militia; 2dly, reducing the quantity and quality of their clothing, or 3dly, diminishing the number of days of exercise, and reducing the pay of the non-commissioned officers. The two first modes were deemed inconsistent with the public service, but the last was adopted, by reducing the number of days of exercise from 28 to 22 in each year, and reducing the number of serjeants and corporals, which arrangement not only produced a saving to the country, but did less injury to the agricultural interest than the original plan had done.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 rose and said, he could not but deprecate the abruptness of the noble lord's interrogatories to his noble friend, who could hardly be expected at that precise moment to have it in his power to give distinct answers to the noble lord's questions. As far, however, as it was in his own power, he would satisfy the noble lord. With respect to the first question, he really could not conceive how any assurance could be afforded before hand, as to the capacity of the individuals to be appointed to the present medical board. The noble lord might be assured that care would be taken to select the most eligible persons; and it was meant as an additional security for the performance of their duty, that they should give up all private practice and confine themselves wholly to the superintendence of the medical department, and to the consideration of those diseases to which the army was most liable. With respect to the other question, all he had to say, was, that the conduct of his Majesty's government, in this particular, was guided by long-established regulations of the then existing medical board, that their conduct was determined upon before the present inquiry was thought of; and it was thought rather hard to turn persons adrift upon the world, without some reward for past services.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
631 could not help replying to one or two of the observations of the hon. gent. who spoke last. With respect to the delay in making up the regimental accounts, he had the satisfaction of stating to the House, his belief that a plan which he had himself partly suggested before he retired from office, was now carried, or carrying into effect, from which the most satisfactory results had taken place: the account being now in a very forward state of adjustment. Great fault had been found with the estimate for the army exceeding the actual amount of the establishment. That excess had been most ably and most clearly stated by the noble lord who opened the debate; he had only to observe, therefore, that it was a rule which had been adopted for two or three years past, of averaging instead of estimating, the precise amount at its real value; by these means, every contingency was completely answered; and the surplus was appropriated for other
631Sir James Pulteney
 stated, that it was the uniform rule to have the answer inserted on the Journals.The Speaker
 defended himself from the imputation, which he conceived had been cast upon him by a noble lord relative to the district over which he held a command. Since he had entered upon that command he had made a considerable redaction in the number of officers under him. He had been called from an active and honourable service in Ireland to be placed in that district, a situation of which he had complained at the time to the commander in chief, and which, in fact, was like sending him to Siberia. Adverting to the statements of the noble lord, by whom the present discussion was commenced, he condemned the plan of purchasing horses at the early age at which they were now bought. Before these horses were fit for service, in the vulgar phrase, "they ate their heads off." The Manx fencibles appeared to him an unnecessary expence. In the Isle of Man they were considered only as feather-bed soldiers, and the volunteers were deemed fully adequate to the defence of the island. The waggon train too, in his opinion, might be materially reduced. Let the British army go where they might, they would always get waggons enough. The hon. general concluded his speech by a warm defence of the character of the army.General Tarleton
630l.l.l.l.l.l.l.629l.s.d.s.d.s.s.s628s.d.s.l.d.s.627626 observed, that although
630l.l.l.l.l.l.l.629l.s.d.s.d.s.s.s628s.d.s.l.d.s.627626Mr. Wardle
 said, the right hon. bart. had not received an answer to one point, viz. that ministers had, since the bill was brought in, an opportunity afforded them of giving lord Wellington the office of teller of the Exchequer. Why was the House called on to add to the sums the people were bound to pay, such an annuity as this, when he might have been so well rewarded without adding to their burdens, if ministers had not thought fit to give this valuable office to a right hon. gent. whose services no one had ever heard of?Mr. H. Martin
l.l.s.l.ad valoreml.d.s.614s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s. complimented the noble lord on the eloquence he had displayed; but rose principally to state some points on which he conceived the committee bound to decide. The officers of the army laboured, in his opinion, under some oppressions which he thought should be removed. It would surprise the Committee if he informed them, and he was prepared to prove it, that the officers of the British army were paid less for their services than in the 1695; he did not mean comparatively speaking, but shilling for shilling, sixpence for sixpence. In proof of his assertion, he referred to a manuscript in the Harleian museum, written by sir R. Harley, dated the 17th July 1695. A lieutenant-colonel received then 17l.l.s.l.ad valoreml.d.s.614s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.General Gascoyne
 contended that the House should pause before it voted a new army to ministers, who, as was proved in evidence, could not out of 105,000 effective voted last year, provide, in the month of March last, 16,000 for the public service.Mr. Calcraft
625 congratulated both the hon. gentleman on the other side, (Mr. Rose and Mr. Huskisson) on the new sentiments which they had this night expressed—on their zeal for that reform and retrenchment in the public expenditure, which they discountenanced so much in the last session, when proposed to the consideration of the House, by his hon. friend near him, (Mr. Wardle.) It was grateful to his mind, as well in respect to the gentlemen themselves, as for the public good, to witness the reform which had taken place in their opinions. The hon. gent. then adverted to some of the points in discussion. He reprobated the system on which the Manx fencibles were supported, and asserted that they were merely kept to serve a nobleman, upon ground which that House had formerly bought of him. He had received a letter from a correspondent in the isle of Man, from which he would inform the House, that the Manx fencibles, instead of being 300 strong, as represented by the noble lord, were actually 800, with a complement of 24 officers. These commissions were held by attornies, tradesmen, and other individuals, resident on the island; and, what was most extraordinary, the men were never seen in their uniforms except on particular occasions. This was certainly the most singular proof of military service he had ever heard of. The House would see, therefore, that these officers were virtually
625Mr. P. Moore
 stated, that if it was in the contemplation of the hon. mover to have an account of the expenditure of our whole military force, both at home and abroad, that was impracticable without considerable delay. There could be no objection to produce an account of the sums issued by the Secretary at War for the time, although from the late period at which the hon. baronet brought forward his motion, he could not see how it was possible that such return could answer his object.Mr. Long
—Really if there has been in the manner in which I addressed the right hon. gent. any thing as he has conceived menacing, it was, I assure him, far from my intention, and I sincerely beg his pardon. If, however, the right hon. gent. is determined to persevere in his silence to my question, it will be most certainly my duty to bring it forward in a more formal manner. But wishing, as I do, to divest him of the idea, that I intended to convey my question in an uncourteous manner to him, I take leave to put it again.Mr. Whitbread.
603 observed, that in the question he was about to put to the right hon. gent., he wished to be understood as
603Mr. Whitbread
606 said, that he was very sorry to trespass upon the time of the House. He had already occupied too large a portion of their attention, and, perhaps, wearied out their indulgence in delivering at length, upon a former occasion, his opinions upon the merits of the late campaign in the peninsula. He should not now re-state those opinions, but content himself with referring the House to the consideration of the petition that had that day been presented to them from the city of London. The objections to the grant in question were put in so plain, clear, full, and satisfactory a manner as could not fail of making a serious impression upon the mind of every unprejudiced man. He thought, too, that even those who thought more highly of the services of lord Wellington than he did, might have very different, notions as to the lavish expenditure of the public money; they were not merely to consider whether lord Wellington deserved that remuneration, but whether it ought to be derived to him from the
606Mr. Whitbread
 on the order of the day for the second reading of this Bill being moved, said, that understanding that a petition from the City of London had been that day presented to the House, against the bill, he trusted, that the right hon. gent. would see the propriety of not pressing the second reading on that day.Mr. Whitbread
 contended that no practical grievance accrued from the employment of foreign troops. It was a theoretic complaint, and calculated to produce as much delusion as another question, upon which much clamour was excited, he meant Parliamentary Reform. Much was said about good old times, and of our ancestors; but when such appeals were made for such purposes, he was almost inclined to wish that we had had no ancestors at all.Lord Mahon
 said, he still retained all the sentiments he expressed last session, with regard to the proposition of the hon. gent. (Mr. Wardle) with which sentiments he had not this night uttered a word in any degree inconsistent.Mr. Huskisson
 said it would be impossible to prepare within a given time the general account required by the present motion, the only practicable object would be to obtain the sums issued.Mr. Huskisson
620l.619l.l.618 expressed the reluctance which he fell at addressing the House in the presence of so many members, who were much more competent to discuss the subject than himself; a reluctance increased by the necessity under which he felt himself obliged to differ in some points from his right hon. friend. He trusted, however, that notwithstanding this partial difference of opinion, the sincerity of his attachment to his right hon. friend would remain unquestioned. Doing every possible justice to the ability displayed by the noble lord in the statement which he had that evening made, he confessed that in
620l.619l.l.618Mr. Huskisson
623l.622621 said he was little disposed to concur in all the reasoning of the hon. gent, who spoke last. He agreed however, in many of his suggestions for economising the expenditure in this most important and extensive department of the state. But the great objection he had to some gentlemen's ideas of reform, was, that they were too narrow and confined to give to the country any substantial benefit. Certainly no man more than himself agreed in the necessity there existed of husbanding our resources, in order that the means of the country might suffice for the ends to be gained. This was an opinion he had ever unalterably entertained, and he would be the first to adopt any system of effectual economy, caring little by whom it should be brought forward. But he never would agree that the expenses of an individual family, afforded any parallel for the expenditure of a country. In the former case, the master of a family might curtail the luxurious extravagancies of his mode of living, and confine his expenses at any time within his means, without injuring the vital com-
623l.622621Mr. Windham
605 considered it no answer to a member of parliament, wishing to inquire into the public expenditure, to be told that the account could not be made up. It was only a proof that our system of ac-
605Mr. Parnell
 considered the continuance of the waggon train in Ireland as a most severe and unnecessary expence. He complained, that in bringing forward the present army estimates no attention appeared to have been paid to the valuable advice contained in the Report of the Commissioners of Military Inquiry. No answer had been given to the question, whether the members of the late medical board received pensions, and whether the duke of Brunswick's corps received bounty or not.Mr. Parnell
 said, that when the merits of the case were last agitated, the fate of a much regretted friend of his (Mr. Eden) was involved in uncertainty. That uncertainty had since resolved itself into a melancholy certainty, and he thought that in consequence of that circumstance, it would have been well to have rewarded the services of lord Wellington with the sinecure thus left vacant, (the Tellership of the Exchequer.) That, however, instead of being given to one who had fought for his country abroad, had been bestowed on a person who had distinguished himself by fighting the battles of ministers at home. He thought the Petition from the City of London in-titled to great attention. Though he did justice to the prowess of lord Wellington, yet he was of opinion that while no such acknowledgment had been made of the services of gen. Moore, it did not become ministers to propose such a grant to the noble lord who had fought the battle of Talavera.Sir J. Newport
 suggested, that it would be adviseable for the future so to provide that the Mutiny bill should not expire until a more advanced period of the session.Sir J. Newport
604 stated his desire before he brought forward the motion of which he had given notice, to set himself right with the House and the country, in answer to charges brought against him by ministers upon a former night. He was then told that his object was to disband the army and stop its pay. The injustice of such a charge was evident from the fact, that the delay his motion would occasion in voting the Army Estimates, could not be productive of any such effect, inasmuch as the Mutiny bill in England would not expire before the 25th of March, nor in
604Sir T. Turton
 said, he was always sorry to differ in opinion with the city of London, but he must exercise his own judgment, and he thought the gallant general so highly deserving of this annuity, that he could not but vote in favour of the second reading of the bill.—A division then took place.—For the second reading 106, Against it 36. Majority 70.Sir W. Curtis
l.613l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.612l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.d.s.611l.l.l.l.l.610l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.609l.l.l.608 rose for the purpose of submitting to the Committee, pursuant to his notice, the various estimates, which it would be necessary to vote for the service of the army for the present year. He was fully sensible how inadequate he was to perform this duty with the same ability which distinguished his predecessors, and felt it necessary to claim, at the outset, that indulgence, which the House was always ready to extend to persons circumstanced as he was. He could assure the Committee, that in soliciting this indulgence it was not his intention to abuse it, and that, though he feared he should be obliged to occupy more of their time than he could wish, he would yet not trespass unnecessarily upon the attention which he trusted would be indulgently extended to him. In explaining the estimates, therefore, which he should propose to be voted, and the nature and extent as well as the grounds of any variations from the estimates of former years, he was determined to do it as briefly as the complicated but unavoidable details into which the question must lead him would permit. The first point to which he had to call the attention of the Committee was, that the estimates under consideration had been framed in strict conformity with those economical principles which had been recommended from the throne, and which he trusted would at all times govern the conduct of his Majesty's present government. On a minute comparison with the estimates of the last year, gentlemen would find that there would be no increase in the expences of the present further than what the exigencies of the service required; nor indeed had any reduction been omitted which was compatible with the defence of the country. The estimates were divided under twenty-one heads, which he would shortly state to the Committee, one by one, in order to point out the differences between them and the corresponding items of last year, and also notice where further savings might in future be expected.l.613l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.612l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.d.s.611l.l.l.l.l.610l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.609l.l.l.608Lord Palmerston
 answered, that the explanation on that point was, that although there were 105,000 effective men, there could not at that time be provided a disposable force of more than 16,000 men.Lord Palmerston
 said, he wished to put two distinct questions to the noble lord opposite, to which he expected satisfactory answers; First, what security would be given to the country, that the new medical board, recently appointed, would take care to guard against the calamities which were so justly attributed to the old medical board? Whether the physicians appointed would be capable of judging of camp and contagious diseases? and, secondly, whether the rumour was true, which was so prevalent namely, that those who composed the late medical board, were suffered to retire on their full pay? Whether those persons, whose ignorance and misconduct had occasioned to the country such material losses of its best troops, were allowed to retire not only with impunity, but loaded with unmerited rewards?Earl Temple
633s.l.632 replied shortly to the objections of the preceding speakers. With respect to the abolition of the local militia, he had only to observe, that that was a force established by act of parliament, and it could only be reduced by a legislative proceeding. The expences of it, however, had been considerably exaggerated; he had the satisfaction of stating to the Committee, that great reductions were daily making in its appointment, and he trusted that the objections to the heaviness of its charge upon the country, would be speedily removed by these regulations. There were many of the estimates, which he humbly conceived were objected to upon very fallacious grounds. The most material subject of complaint seemed to be the waggon train; which was objected to upon the score of inutility, and the enormous expence required to maintain it. With respect to the latter objection he could only assure the Committee, that every econo-
633s.l.632Lord Palmerston
637 said, that though the right hon. gent. had deprecated any further discussion at present, he could not forbear making one or two observations upon what had fallen from him. However fortunate those humble efforts had proved, which he had made in resisting the claims of the Roman Catholics, it did not appear from what had fallen from the right hon. gent. that his motives in resisting those claims had, been at all connected with those principles of bigotted intolerance, which had been so liberally imputed to him; for it was clear that had those claims been granted, they would have been granted upon principles utterly inconsistent with the safety of the constitution. It did appear, that whatever difference of opinion had prevailed between him and the right hon. gent. upon the abstract question, yet that right hon. gent. was of opinion, that certain great and important provisions were indispensible, in order to guard the constitution against the danger likely to result from that concession. The right I hon. gent. had at length admitted the danger of giving the Roman Catholics; what they sought for; or, if he did not, why did he speak of the necessity of a remedy? It appeared then, that they both saw the danger, though they did not agree as to the best means of providing against that danger. He hoped, therefore, he should hear no further charges of intolerance, since the right hon. gent. himself, who had been so long the advocate of the Catholic claims, had acknowledged that there was something to he apprehended from the spiritual influence of the Pope in the nomination of the Roman Catholic bishops. This was the intolerance of which he (Mr. Perceval) had been guilty. He had all along thought it dangerous—so did now the right hon. gent. But there was one other point upon which he would beg leave to say one word. The right hon. gent. had said, that he would never discuss the question, whether he had misinformed the House, or the Catholics had retracted the cession of the Veto. This was all very well between the Catholics and the right hon. gent. but not so between that right hon. gent. and the House; for if the House had been so influenced by that proposition as to have suddenly resolved upon some summary and immediate proceeding, that right hon. gent. would have obtained from the House a consent upon a condition, which
637The Chancellor of the Exchequer
641640639638 said, that he did not wish to delay the House for any time, but as he had never known a minister to display such a want of discretion and candour as the right hon. gent. in what had fallen from him, he thought he would be wanting in his public duty, if he did not make a few observations. He hoped that what had fallen from his right hon. friend (Mr. Grattan), would have its due effect upon the Catholics, whose cause he maintained; and that they would be ready to come forward, and declare themselves willing to separate themselves from foreign influence, and to yield up any pretension, which was inconsistent with the security of the constitution. He would not give his opinion upon the Veto, but thought it rather hard that a question but newly started, should be taken advantage of, and brought against their substantial claims.
641640639638Mr. Hutchinson
 said in reply, that he had never changed his mind upon the great question of the Catholic Claims; the course he had pursued had been pursued by others. When Mr. Fox presented the Petitions of the Catholics, he did not enter into the consideration of the small items of minor expediency, that was for the committee to do, and that great statesman moved for a committee; so had he done. He supported the broad question, and reserved the minor questions of qualifications, limitations, security, for the committee. He first asked them to go into the committee, and in that committee to make provision for the details. It had been argued on the ground of provision of security in another place. It was allowed to be a question of complicated consideration, this was, then, an argument for going into the committee; besides, the Pope was then an independent power, or at least a power dependent upon England; but now the Pope was wholly dependent upon France, and it was to be remembered, that the actual situation of the Pope was a mere ingredient in the question. By deferring the measure till now, the Catholics had lost the opportunity of obtaining their privileges, and England had lost the opportunity of displaying her generosity under the most favourable circumstances.Mr. Grattan
635634 rose to present to the House a Petition from divers Roman Catholics in Ireland. It was a prayer for constitutional privileges. It applied for those privileges through the constitutional organ; it sought for a legitimate object by legitimate means; it was right to encourage communion between the people and their re-
635634Mr. Grattan
646 did not at all feel upon the subject as the noble lord appeared to do. He agreed with him that the outrage was of the most extravagant nature: but even the very extravagance of it evinced that the gentleman who had committed it was in a state, which ought to prevent the House from inflicting any severe punishment. The noble lord mentioned, that what Mr. Fuller had already suffered was nothing more than what was often inflicted upon members who happened to be five minutes behind their proper time on a call of the House. But did the noble lord really think that there was any thing analogous in the two cases? The time of confinement was indeed the same; but here the
646The Chancellor of the Exchequer
647 felt exactly as his noble friend had described himself to feel, in rising to speak on a personal question of this nature. But he was convinced that the House would not discharge its duty to itself, if it agreed to the motion now proposed. It was said, that this was the first offence; but the House would recollect, that it was not one offence only. The House had, in the first place been insulted by the most improper and unparliamentary language; and when it expressed its sense of such conduct, Mr. Fuller had burst out of the custody of the Serjeant at Arms; had rushed into the body of the House, and committed the most violent outrage. After such conduct as this it was proposed to discharge the
647Mr. C. W. Wynn
 observed, that it was rather too hard at this moment to allude to the former conduct of Mr. Fuller: if the hon. gent. who spoke last, really did mean to allude to him. The House not having noticed it, it ought not to be brought up against Mr. Fuller in his present situation. He knew how much Mr. Fuller regretted the outrage into which he had been betrayed in an unwary moment, and he knew that his regret was the more keen, on account of the misconception which he found to prevail both in and out of the House, as to his having meant any disrespect to the Speaker. He had done all that was in his power to counteract that impression. He had apologized for his offence, and expressed his regret that he should have been led into it. He hoped, therefore, the House would feel that its dignity would not be in the least compromised by assenting to the motion.Mr. Lockhart
645 rose, and stated, that he had been authorised by Mr. Fuller, now in the custody of the Serjeant at Arms, to express the deepest regret on his part for the outrage of which he had been guilty, and to request, in Mr. Fuller's name that be might be discharged. As Mr. Fuller had thus expressed his regret for his conduct, and had thus apologized, he trusted the House would therefore think, considering all the circumstances of the disagreeable
645—The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 here interrupted Mr. W. and said, that he understood the apology to be directed to the House, though it had been inclosed in a letter to him.][The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought he might move, as an amendment, "That Mr. Fuller be brought to the bar to apologize to the House, and that if the apology should be deemed sufficient, he might be discharged."Sir R. Williams
 did not rise with a view to diminish the sense which the House appeared to entertain of the insult offered to it, nor to extenuate the offence committed. But at the same time, it was but fair to consider the situation in which the hon. member was when the outrage was committed;—it ought to have its weight in his favour;—that the insult was not a premeditated one. What the precise expressions were, he did not know, for he had not heard them; but he believed it to be admitted, that the hon. member was then in a situation in which he could not altogether appreciate the very improper nature of his conduct. With a view to example, however, he would propose an amendment to the motion of his right hon. friend. The hon. gent. opposite (Mr. C. Wynn) would perceive that it would appear on the Journals, not only that the hon. member was discharged at the next sitting, but that the House did not sit the day immediately following the outrage. He concluded by moving as an amendment, "That Mr. Fuller be called to the bar to be reprimanded by the Speaker, and then discharged."Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said that he had moved an amendment.Sir R. Williams
 then said that he would second the amendment of the right hon. gent.—The question being put,Sir R. Williams
l.l.l.d.s.l.s. noticed, that the collectors of Assessed Taxes, &c. were released from that part of their duty, during the 6 winter months, when the distilleries were most employed, and would consequently be enabled to attend to them without inconvenience or loss to the revenue. He defended the system of survey, in opposition to that of license; and trusted the present measure would be unanimously supported by Irish gentlemen, which would convince the people of that country it was for their good, and that it would be fully enforced. The charge from surveys had arisen from 30l.l.l.d.s.l.s.Mr. Foster
 wished to know if any compensation would be made to the holders of spirits, in consequence of the reduction of the duty?Mr. Beresford
 said it was impossible to do so, as there would be an endless recurrence of retailer to wholesale dealer, and wholesale dealer to distiller, &c. He had also looked for precedents, and found, in the commutation of the tea tax, that no compensation had been made to the holders of tea.Mr. Foster
 rebutted the arguments on the latter point.Mr. Foster
 remarked on the variation between the sentiments of the right hon. gent. (Mr. Foster,) this session and the last, and accused him of disordering the revenue, enterprise, and trade of Ireland by the vacciliations of his politics. He called on him to make up his mind fully and firmly, before he introduced a system so diametrically opposite to that which he had, only one year ago, pledged himself to support, and thereby induced many persons, on the faith of gentlemen, to embark large capitals in distilleries from large stills. He noticed in particular the house of Browne, Stein, and Co. in Limerick, which had launched into great speculations on the strength of the encouragement held out by the right hon. gent. He then went into a view of the proposed alteration, and contended that large stills were preferable to small ones.—This was proved by the system of distillation in England, where there were none but large stills, and illicit trade was unknown. It was farther corroborated by Scotland, where distillation from small stills was encouraged, and there was a very great proportion of illegal traffic carried on.—He concluded, by imputing the blame of the great degree of illicit trade in Ireland to Mr. Foster, whose system, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, and with all his power, must have been bad to permit it.Mr. Hutchinson
 spoke in favour of the smaller stills, which would be universally beneficial to Ireland; though they might not answer the city which the hon. gent. represented (Cork.)Mr. D. Browne
659maximum rose for the purpose of impressing the House with the importance of ascertaining whether the expenditure contained in the estimates was absolutely necessary. This was a duty the more incumbent upon Parliament, after the various admissions they had heard of the propriety of retrenchment, but more particularly after the speech of an hon. gent. (Mr. Huskisson) on a former night, adoping all the views thrown out with respect to retrenchment by an hon. member behind him (Mr. Wardle), towards the close of the last session. But the chief importance of the statement of that hon. gent. on the former night was, that it contained the best evidence of the necessity of retrenchment, as coming from a man the best informed of any in Great Britain upon that subject. With respect to the statement made by the noble lord in opening the army estimates, as to the amount of the military force of the country being 600,000, so far from creating confidence in the country, he was convinced it would produce the contrary impression of alarm, when it was considered, that out of such a force so small a proportion could be brought into action against the enemy as had been employed in the late campaigns. It was now admitted that the taxation had reached its 659maximumMr. Maurice Fitzgerald
655d.s.d.s.d.s.654vacuum,l. said, he would shortly state to the Committee, the object he had in view. Every gentleman, who was acquainted with the state of Ireland, knew that the increase of illicit distillation had become prodigiously great, ever since the prohibition of the distillation from grain; indeed, he imputed the alarming increase principally to that measure, as farmers encouraged the illicit trade in order to procure a market for their produce. So greatly had this private distilling trenched upon the lawful trade, that, in 1807, the quantity of spirits distilled by the open distilleries, was six millions of gallons, and the revenue 1,230,000655d.s.d.s.d.s.654vacuum,l.Mr. Foster
 stated, that inquiry had been made into the conduct of the late medical board, by a board of general officers, at the head of which was general Fox, who reported that they had not neglected their duty. The noble lord also stated, that notwithstanding the losses of the two last campaigns, the number of the regular army was greater now by 34,000, than it was on the 24th of March, 1807, when the former administration quitted office. The ordinary recruiting was found to nearly supply the ordinary waste. What stronger proof could there be of the efficiency of the system?Lord Castlereagh
 defended Mr. Edmund Knight, who had been alluded to in terms of harshness in the course of the debate, from the imputation of blame cast upon his conduct in the medical department of the late expedition.Lord Folkestone
672 disagreed with the hon. gent. in the view he had taken upon the subject, thinking as he did, that the services of so meritorious an officer ought to meet with an adequate reward. The right hon. gent. entered into a defence of all the items of estimates in the account before the House, except that relating to the Home Staff, which he confessed ought to undergo some revision; and entertaining such an opinion, he de-
672The. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 professed his willingness to agree with the hon. gentleman's proposition, of deferring the consideration of the Home staff subject; but to the others he felt it his duty, gave his positive dissent.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
650 observed, that he understood the hon. baronet only to have thrown out a suggestion, without embodying it into a formal amendment; but if he had misapprehended the hon. member he hoped
650The Speaker
 said, that nothing would appear on the Journals to shew that there was any personal insult to the Speaker, and this superseded the necessity of entering the apology on the Journals.The Speaker
 answered in the affirmative, and mentioned the precedent of a person who had offended by words, some years ago, in whose case it was stated, that the regret he expressed for his conduct was the ground on which the House admitted him to his seat again.The Speaker
651 then ordered the Serjeant at Arms to bring Mr. Fuller to the bar.651The Speaker
 thought it right to state to the House, in justice to the individual whose conduct was now under discussion, that he had received a letter from Mr. Fuller, with an apology for expressions which he had not heard; and if he had heard them, the House would give him credit, he trusted, when he said that they would not have operated in the least on his mind, except as connected with the dignity and authority of the House.The Speaker
660 felt called upon, by an imperious sense of duty, to offer a few observations to the House, after what had fallen from the hon. member, and undertook to prove to the satisfaction of the House, that no reduction ought to be made in the cavalry force, which was our most useful arm. If there had been a cavalry force in Ireland at the time, gen. Humbert, with 800 men, could never have advanced 15 days march into that country. He had surveyed Ireland with a military eye, and could assert that it was peculiarly favourable for a body of cavalry to act in. Where ever gentlemen could hunt, there could cavalry act. It had been Buonaparté's uniform practice to employ large bodies of cavalry; and it was to the pressure of the French cavalry that was to be
660General Tarleton
 asked, whether it would appear on the Journals that any apology at all had been made?Mr. G. Vansittart
l. asked the noble secretary for the war department, who the barrack-master-general was, who, it appeared on the face of the estimates, had retired on a pension of 691l.Mr. Wardle
 did not mean to impute blame to the government for the conduct of the medical board. With respect to the estimates, he did not know whether it would not be more prudent to refer them to a select committee, before the House were called on to vote.Mr. Whitbread
 in reply, said he should not divide the House upon his Amendment, but he did hope that some of the items he should name would be reserved for further consideration. He particularly mentioned those relating to the Home Staff, the Medical Department, and the Local Militia, all of which he moved should be taken into further consideration on this day fortnight.Mr. Whitbread,
 in continuation, insisted that it was directed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer only, and taking up the paper from the table, read "I beg you will inform the House that I am sorry for what I have done, and beg leave to apologize for my conduct." This was therefore incontestibly directed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer alone. The paper itself shewed that such was the fact, and it was impossible they could deny it. Of the letter inclosing this apology the House knew nothing, as it was not on the table; but after all, the apology was far from being couched in very ample terms. Gentlemen had talked a great deal lately about their privileges. One man for a violation of them had lately been reprimanded at their bar, and another had been sent to Newgate, and was the House to suffer an outrage within its walls—the greatest outrage that had ever been committed, to pass with this slight mark of its sense of such conduct? when an hon. baronet, who was present at the time, thought that he who committed this outrage ought to be sent to the Tower, it would not perhaps be considered as harsh, that he (Mr. W.) expected a much more ample apology; and even supposing an ample apology to be made, he could not have thought it possible that the offending person should be dismissed without a reprimand from the chair. When gentlemen who saw the outrage, doubted, if it would be consistent with the dignity of the House to allow the man who had so insultingly violated its privileges and rules, ever to sit there again, it was proposed to dismiss the matter with this meagre apology and slight duration of confinement. Many gentlemen present had seen the outrage; all of them had heard of it; the whole public rung with it. He affirmed, that not the House alone, but the Speaker had been insulted; he had heard the language used and could not be mistaken as to its obvious import. He would not quote it, unless he was challenged to do so. But if he should be challenged to quote the words, he thought they were such as would leave no doubt of the correctness of his conclusion. He must therefore oppose the motion.Mr. Whitbread
670l.l.l.669l.parsimonia?vectigal668667666665664l.l.663l.l.662l.661 perceiving no disposition in the right hon. gent. opposite to say any thing upon the subject under consideration, and feeling that it must be the wish of the noble lord (Palmerston) to
670l.l.l.669l.parsimonia?vectigal668667666665664l.l.663l.l.662l.661Mr. Whitbread,
 said, that he had sat for 20 years in the House and never witnessed such a gross outrage as had been committed the other night. He was present— he saw it all—he heard all—but would not quote the language used. Those who were present will recollect that it was only by an accidental circumstance that the outrage had been prevented from proceeding to the utmost excess of violence. After this Mr. Fuller sent the House a sort of an apology directed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Whitbread
 spoke in favour of the mode adopted by government of rewarding that officer.Mr. Huskisson
 complained of having been misconceived, and consequently misrepresented by the hon. gent. He denied that the speech to which the hon. gent. had alluded was a counterpart of the other hon. gentleman's (Mr. Wardle). He defended himself from the imputation of throwing indiscriminate censure upon his Majesty's ministers, but admitted that he had some doubts as to the policy of continuing the excess of expenditure referred to in his speech on a former night.Mr. Huskisson
 expressed disapprobation of certain items in the estimates respecting foreign corps and temporary barracks in Ireland. But what he wished particularly to press upon the attention of the House was the enormous amount of the staff in this country, all of whom being absent from their regiments, performed no service. He could not perceive the reason why seven generals should be necessary in the home district. In the county of Herts, which formed a part of that district, some volunteers corps had been reviewed in 1805 by the duke of Cambridge, but since that period they had seen no general in that county. He did not mean to impute any blame to any of the generals, for the duty was perfectly well performed by the inspecting field officers. It certainly did appear somewhat strange that a staff of 20 persons should be necessary for one district. As to what had fallen from the hon. gent. respecting the military college, he had only to observe, that he entertained great hopes that it would prove beneficial to the army. When he considered the moderate expence of the college, he could not but think that this expence would be amply compensated by the benefits that would result to the army from that establishment.Mr. Lamb
 deprecated the appointment as an unnecessary piece of extravagance, and an additional burthen upon the country.Mr. W. Smith
 replied at considerable length to the hon. baronet, and warmly supported the estimate of which he complained.Mr. W. Pole
649 was not present at the time the outrage took place, but he had
649Sir E. Knatchbull
l. considered it a great defect in the estimates, and a great error in preparing them, that an addition of 7,000l.Mr. Parnell
657 said, that he could not do otherwise than concur with the plan proposed by the right hon. gent. he having in the last session repeatedly pressed upon the House the policy of adopting the regulations which were now proposed. He must, however, make an exception in respect to the way in which the duty was to be collected, because he considered the system of survey wholly unfit for the system of distilling in very small stills. The expence to be incurred by excise officers would be immense, and persons having made capitals would be afraid to place themselves under the severe regulations attending the mode of collecting an actual survey. The license system had been tried with great success in Scotland, and though of late departed from, it was not given up until it had succeeded in putting down illicit trade. He wished to suggest a preferable mode of making an allowance to the distiller using turf, to that proposed by the right hon. gent. and
657Mr. Parnell
 rose, amidst cries of "question, question," and said, that he did not mean to oppose the Amendment. His duty to the House (he was chairman to the Committee of Inquiry) had called upon him to pay particular attention to the outrage; and he was satisfied that it had proceeded in a great measure from a certain species of accidental misfortune. He, however, thought it necessary that a personal apology should be made to the Speaker. He now understood that apology had been made; but he also thought it proper that the apology should be entered on the Journals, if this was regular,Sir John Anstruther
652presented a Petition of the catholics of the county and city of Waterford, setting forth, "That notwithstanding the several Petitions which had, on former occasions, been respectfully laid before the House, praying a repeal of the penal statutes affecting their body, have not hitherto been attended with success, they now conceive, from the extraordinary circumstances which have occurred, that they not only are warranted, but that it is become an imperative duty again to appeal to the tribunal of the House; and that the enjoyment of freedom, well understood, is the best security for national independence; from it alone can spring that enthusiasm, which, at the
652Sir John Newport 
 expressed his satisfaction at the measure proposed by the right hon. gent. and his readiness to co-operate with him as far as lay in his power, in carrying it into execution. He accorded most cordially with the proposition, which went to do what he had for the last four years pressed upon the consideration of the House.—He had ever wished to impress upon them the necessity of dispersing small stills over the country; and he had twice taken the sense of the House upon the question of withdrawing the bounties from the large stills. On one or two points of minor importance, however, he differed from the right hon. gent. He could not impute the increase of the illicit trade so much to the prohibition of distillation from grain, as it was known to exist to a very great extent before passing of that measure. Neither could he accord with the principle of survey, as necessary or beneficial to the revenue. It gave rise to frauds on the part of the trader, and corrupt connivance on the part of the excise officer. His view would be that, which, on best attention to the subject, he had ever thought the best, namely, to adopt the system of license; that was, to charge a certain duty monthly in proportion to the capacity of the still, and leave it open to the trader by his exertions to make more of it if he could. The right hon. gent. thought he had got quit of the extra expence of collecting, and the danger of frauds, &c. by taking it from the excise and entrusting it to the collectors of hearth rates and assessed taxes; but he was convinced this would never answer. Even these taxes were not too well collected now, and by adding another duty to the collectors, the revenue would suffer still more. This was the only radical point of difference between him and the right hon. gent. and this he hoped would be overcome in the Committee. The observations too of the right hon. gent. had anticipated much he bad to offer, though he would still wish certain resolutions he had previously prepared to be received, and entered on the journals, as shewing his deliberate view of this important question to a country, from which he had the honour to be sent to that House.Sir J. Newport
 objected entirely to the estimate relating to the barrack department in Ireland.Sir J. Newport
 replied, that to the best of his recollection the gentleman alluded to was general De Lancey.Lord Palmerston
 in reply, re-stated, and justified different items in the proposed reduction. The new medical board was composed of members, who, whether they came from the north or from the south, whether they were old or young, were perfectly efficient, and had every one of them been recommended by a board of general officers.Lord Palmerston,
 moved the order of the day for the further consideration of the report on the Army Estimates. On the question being put, That the report be now taken into further consideration,Lord Palmerston
 was sure that the House must be aware how unpleasant it was to rise to speak in opposition to the most lenient proposal upon a personal question. But there were times and circumstances which required that those feelings should be surmounted, and which demanded that gentlemen should not shrink from a strict discharge of their duty, however unpleasant. It was hardly necessary for him, he trusted, to disclaim any personal hostility to the gentleman to whom this motion related; but after the extraordinary, outrageous and highly aggravated insult which had been experienced by the House: an outrage the more serious as it had been committed within their walls; and the more aggravated as it had been directed, not to the members alone, but to the person of the Speaker: after all these circumstances, he could not make up his mind to pass the matter over with so slight a punishment; no more indeed than what might be suffered by any of the members if a quarter of an hour behind his time on a call of the House. The House would, no doubt, recollect that a committal to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms often took place upon being a few minutes behind their time at election ballots. It was impossible for him, therefore, consistently with his sense of what was due to the House and the Speaker, to suffer such outrageous conduct to pass with so slight a mark of the resentment of the House.Earl Temple
pro tempore, rose to move an Address to his Majesty; but spoke in so low a tone as not to be clearly audible below the bar. After briefly touching upon the leading topics in his Majesty's most gracious Speech, his lordship observed, that eventful as the present crisis was, and gloomy as the picture presented by the existing situation of Europe must be allowed to be, yet the means and resources of this empire were equal to the successful prosecution of the arduous contest we had to sustain, unless marred by internal divisions, paralised by the want of that unanimity, at all times so desirable, but in the present perilous times so indispensably necessary. His lordship extolled the magnanimity of the emperor of Austria, and lamented the adverse fortune of the war, during which so much valuable blood and treasure had been sacrificed on the continent. The noble earl then took a brief review of the measures of his Majesty's ministers with regard to their foreign policy and various expeditions, and contended, that, whatever might have been the result, they were not only undeserving of censure, but entitled to the thanks of their country. His lordship concluded, by moving an Address to his Majesty, which he read, and which was, as usual, an echo of the Speech.pro tempore,The Earl of Glasgow
6 in seconding the address, solicited their Lordships attention to the few observations which presented themselves to his mind, when he contemplated the state of this country and of Europe in general. Whatever difference of opinion might exist in regard to the different measures of government, their lordships would generally concur in the propriety of making every exertion to divert the attention of the enemy, while he was endeavouring to crush the power of Austria. That Austria had been compelled to make a disadvantageous peace, was one of those disasters which we ought to lament in common with the other calamities of Europe. The expedition to Walcheren had been projected to assist our allies. His Majesty had graciously been pleased to say, he would cause satisfactory documents to be laid before the House re-
6Viscount Grimston,
87 then rose and said: My lords, when I addressed a few observations at the commencement of the last session of parliament to your lordships, I thought my age and infirmities would preclude me from ever again presenting myself to your consideration. But, my lords, such have been the untoward and
87The Earl of St. Vincent
 said a few words expressive of his intention to call the attention of the House at some future period to certain parts of the Reports of the Board of Naval Revision.The Earl of Aberdeen
2928 said, if he thought any power of speech or language necessary to excite the indignation of their lordships or of the country, at the scenes which the government had lately exhibited to the world, he would not have addressed the house. The noble earl who had just spoken had asked, whether without proofs they should go into inquiry, nay more pronounce judgment? But would he therefore contend, that without proofs the house should go into an expression of approval? For his part, he wanted no proofs, but those already before the House. The proofs demanding not only inquiry but condemnation stood confessed before them. They were plain and manifest. The whole conviction of his mind, and the conviction of every one who considered the subject, called for judgment. It was impossible to argue against the direful effects already experienced, and those still more terrible calamities which threatened us. Upon the
2928The Earl of Moira
52Majority
52Majority144—For the Address
144—For the Address55Proxies
55Proxies89Non-Contents
89Non-Contents92—For the Amendment
92—For the Amendment37Proxies
37Proxies55Contents
55Contents
52Majority
52Majority144—For the Address
144—For the Address55Proxies
55Proxies89Non-Contents
89Non-Contents92—For the Amendment
92—For the Amendment37Proxies
37Proxies55Contents
55Contents3736audit castigatque; rose in reply to lords Grey and Grenville, and, in an able speech, went through and answered the topics of these noble lords. He observed, that the Amendment was unprecedented in parliamentary history. It first went to condemn certain measures, and afterwards requested an inquiry into them. It was completely the judgment of Rhadamanthus, 52Majority
52Majority144—For the Address
144—For the Address55Proxies
55Proxies89Non-Contents
89Non-Contents92—For the Amendment
92—For the Amendment37Proxies
37Proxies55Contents
55Contents
52Majority
52Majority144—For the Address
144—For the Address55Proxies
55Proxies89Non-Contents
89Non-Contents92—For the Amendment
92—For the Amendment37Proxies
37Proxies55Contents
55Contents3736audit castigatque;The Earl of Liverpool
3534333231 had to apologise for rising to
3534333231Earl Grey
27262524 could not have supposed that his noble friend (lord Grenville) could have moved an Amendment such as that he had just proposed; it went not only to determine, that there should be an inquiry, but to induce their lordships now to come to a vote of indiscriminate censure, of absolute condemnation, previous to any inquiry. Such a mode of proceeding was surely unusual and unprecedented in the practice of parliament. It was unjust not to allow the proper time for producing the grounds and stating the reasons upon which rested the decision and conduct of his majesty's government in adopting the measures which his noble friend had so loudly arraigned and so severely condemned. His noble friend had laid down the line of policy to which he said he would himself have adhered, and by which he thought his majesty's ministers ought to have been directed. That policy, rested upon the principle of abstaining from continental expeditions; from making our selves parties
27262524Lord Harrowby
30 could not but acknowledge, that there was much to regret, and perhaps much to reprehend, both in the expedition to Spain, and especially in that to Walcheren. He could not, however, bring himself to think, that the Amendment proposed by his noble friend was altogether unobjectionable. It appeared to him that it would condemn without inquiry. There was much of irritation, and much of despondency in the public mind at this moment, and the adopting such a proceeding would not tend to sooth the one, or to reanimate the other. He was a friend to moderation, and he trusted his conduct had shewn him to be a friend to justice on all occasions. In the present instance, a regard to justice and moderation would dissuade him from acceding to the Amendment as it now stood. The second paragraph of it was inadmissible at the present moment; it was for inquiry, but he did not see the necessity of coupling it with the Address to the crown in the manner proposed by the
30Viscount Sidmouth
 pointed out the difference of opinion which prevailed among I the noble lords who were prepared to disapprove of the conduct of his Majesty's ministers, and was of opinion, that few of their lordships would be disposed to go the full length of the noble baron who had moved the Amendment. He never recollected any legislative measure resembling the proposition of condemnation previous to enquiry, which had been submitted to their lordships, except an act of parliament, which had once passed, by which it was enacted, that persons found poaching for game under certain circumstances, were to be flogged at a cart's tail; but a clause was added to this merciful act, that those who found themselves aggrieved thereby, might make an appeal to the next quarter sessions. In the same manner, it was now proposed first to punish by immediate condemnation his Majesty's ministers, and then to appeal to the House, to see whether they had deserved that punishment. The noble lord then proceeded to vindicate the operation of the campaign and the conduct of lord Wellington in Spain. He never was of opinion that the Spanish armies could stand against the veteran troops of France, but so long as Spain could persevere as a nation, so long the honour and the interest of this country rendered it our duty to support her. He contended that a great advantage had been obtained by this country in the destruction of the docks at Flushing, and that the expedition to the Scheldt was a preferable diversion to one sent to the north of Germany. With regard to the conduct of the war, he could safely declare, that no one was to blame, neither the ministers who planned the measures, nor the officers chosen to execute them. The failures had been the consequences of circumstances which no government could foresee, and which no commanders could controul or prevent. He hoped that before their lordships determined to call for any enquiry, they would wait to see what information the papers which were to be laid before the House would produce.Lord Mulgrave
9 doubted how far it was re-
9Lord Mulgrave
2322212019181716151413121110 rose and said: My lords, I readily gave way to the noble earl (St. Vincent); for who could be better entitled to the attention of your lordships than one who has so largely contributed to the glory, and participated in the splendid triumphs of the country. My lords, I would readily also have given way to any noble lord younger and more active than myself, who would have taken upon him the task of pointing out the distressing and perilous state of the country, the errors of those, to whom the lamentable situation of our affairs is to be attributed, and those remedies which can alone be effectual for the evils by which we are now so sorely oppressed. I am, however, anxious to address your lordships thus early, for the purpose of moving such an amendment as I conceive necessary at the present crisis, that I may anticipate any casual and irrelevant observation, by which the discussion of this night might have been drawn out of that course which I think ought to be adhered to, upon the present occasion. We are now imperiously called upon to do our duty, and to institute those inquiries which the misconduct of ministers have rendered absolutely necessary—a misconduct, from which a series of unexampled disasters and calamities have resulted to the country. My lords, my heart is full, and I must give vent to my feelings. The day must come when ministers will have to render an account to parliament of the treasure which they have wasted, and the lives which they have sacrificed in useless and unprofitable expeditions. We owe it to the country, that the king's ministers should be called upon to render that account, and we shall fail in the discharge of our duty to the country, if we do not insist upon it. The day will come, when the mere fact of an
2322212019181716151413121110Lord Grenville
 did not see the necessity of calling for any documents of the nature alluded to by the noble earl, for the purpose of discussing the motion for a vote of thanks to lord Wellington. The vote was a tribute to the bravery of the army, and the skill of the commander, and had no connexion with any enquiry into the merits of the campaign. He should therefore oppose the motion.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought it highly necessary that they should have the proposed information before them, particularly when it was doubtful whether the purpose for which the battle of Talavera was fought was gained, or rather whether it had not wholly failed. There were other documents also which he thought of importance, and for which he should afterwards move.The Marquis of Douglas
108 contended, that it was impossible for that House to vote thanks for a mere isolated act of valour, without inquiring into the circumstances which
108Earl Grosvenor
 thought the conduct of ministers extremely singular; an intention had been intimated by his noble friend on Tuesday night, of bringing forward a motion of inquiry into the conduct of the campaign in Spain, which necessarily involved the merits of the battle of Talavera, and yet this was not thought a sufficient reason to stop a motion for a vote of thanks for fighting that battle, although in the affair of Basque Roads the mere private intimation of a member of the House of Commons, that he should oppose a vote of thanks, led to a Court-martial on the commander.The Earl of Lauderdale
109 was by no means convinced by what he heard, that there was the slightest impropriety in his motions. Let the case be put hypothetically, of a commander advancing into a country, fighting a battle, claiming a victory, and in two days afterwards, being obliged to retreat before those whom he had defeated, and to leave in the hands of the enemy his sick and wounded; and surely their lordships must feel the necessity of having before them some information as to the circumstances attending this battle, and those which led to it, before they came to the discussion of a vote of thanks proposed to the commander. His noble friend had mentioned the battle of Corunna: when these thanks were voted, he was not in the House, but in that case, the gallant and distinguished officer who commanded, gained his object; the purpose of fighting was to secure a good retreat, and that
109Earl Grey
107, previous to the discussion of the next day on the intended Vote of Thanks to lord Wellington, thought it of considerable importance that some information should be laid before the House, by which they might be the better enabled to form an opinion with respect to the propriety of the motion. It was necessary they should know whether the advance of lord Wellington into Spain, was the exercise of his own discretion, or the result of the instructions of ministers, and with this view he should move for the instructions sent to lord Wellington. It was also of importance they should have before them the nature of the information communicated by lord Wellington respecting the action of Talavera, there being strong reason to believe that ministers, at the time they held out that battle as a victory, knew from what was stated by lord Wellington in his dispatches, that our army must retreat; and that the battle, said to be a victory, must be followed by all the consequences of defeat. His lordship therefore moved for the Instructions sent to lord Wellington; for the Dispatches received from him upon his
107Earl Grey
 maintained that it was not the practice to call for information, with the view of ascertaining the character of a victory when the only purpose in contemplation was the voting thanks to the commander. The precedents were all the other way. Thanks were voted for the victory of Maida, although, without meaning to convey the slightest reflection, it might be said to be little better than a barren laurel.The Earl of Harrowby
 was desirous that a full inquiry should take place, into the conduct of the campaign in Spain, and that the documents moved for by the noble earl, and many more, should be produced, but he did not think their production applicable to the intended motion for a vote of thanks. There was no precedent for calling for papers to inquire into the general conduct of a campaign with a view merely to a specific vote of thanks for a particular service. In the case of the battle of Corunna no question was made about the vote of thanks, although the campaign had been disastrous and demanded inquiry.Viscount Sidmouth
, with respect to what he had stated in a former session relative to lord Gambier, regretted that strangers were excluded, as it prevented that publicity being given to it which he wished. He had then intimated by his Majesty's commands, the arrest of lord Gambier, and had stated that the Court-martial had been summoned at the earnest request of lord Gambier, who in doing so, had been actuated by that high and honourable feeling which so peculiarly characterized British officers. With respect to the present motion, he objected to calling for the Minutes of the Court-martial, as that would appear as if it was wished to re-try the case. He thought the laying the Sentence before the House would be sufficient to render their proceedings regular, and answer all the purposes of the noble lord. He therefore moved as an Amendment to insert in the motion the Sentence instead of the Minutes.Lord Mulgrave
 said, he should have great satisfaction, if unfettered by his situation in that House, in paying a tribute to the merits of lord Wellington, whom he considered as an able and accomplished officer. He thought it, however, essential, that they should have the proposed information before they proceeded to the discussion of a motion of thanks for the battle of Talavera. He would put an hypothetical case; suppose that the result of fighting a battle should be, although a victory was claimed, the failure of the main purposes of the campaign, would it not be essential that they should have information with respect to the reasons for adopting that measure, before they voted thanks for a victory which had produced only disastrous consequences?Lord Erskine
, understanding that a notice was given on Tuesday night for a motion of thanks to lord Gambier for the destruction of the French ships in Basque Roads, wished to call the attention of the House to the adoption of some mode for the purpose of rendering their proceedings regular. The last notice which appeared on the journals respecting lord Gambier was an intimation of his arrest, for the purpose of his being tried for his life and honour, before a Court-martial. If it was now thought expedient that thanks should be moved, it would be necessary that the proceedings of that Court-martial should be laid before the House, in order that they might have regularly before them, what had taken place since the arrest of lord Gambier. He therefore moved for the Minutes of the Court-martial.Lord Grenville
 had no objection to the Amendment; he certainly did not wish to re-try the case, which, in his opinion, ought not to have been tried at all. His only object was that the Minutes would contain the most authentic particulars of the action, on which they might form an opinion with respect to the proposed Vote.Lord Grenville
135134133132 rose, and addressed the House, to the following purport:—My Lords; In pursuance of the notice I gave, I now rise for the purpose of moving, That the Thanks of this House be given to lord viscount Wellington, the officers and the army under his command, for the skill and ability, the valour and bravery by which they obtained a victory over the enemy at Talavera. When, my lords, I first proposed to bring this question under your consideration, I fully expected that it would have met with unanimous approbation; but since I have been led to believe, from what has fallen from noble lords opposite, that this motion of thanks will encounter some degree of opposition, I never, in the whole course of my life, felt more interested in any question both on private and on public grounds. I have in framing my motion on this occasion pursued the usual course, and with a view to conciliation, have separated the conduct of the army, and the officer commanding, from every other subject connected with the general management of the campaign. It has been my care to propose the vote of your lordships thanks in that shape which, if possible, could have no disputable point of objection, and therefore it is that it is confined simply to the battle of Talavera. Whatever opinion may be entertained respecting the measures which led to the battle itself, or the consequences that ensued, there can be, lam persuaded, but one sentiment as to the skill of the general and the valour of the army that fought and defeated the French at Talavera. I believe that on any former occasions, it was never deemed necessary to blend the other circumstances of any campaign with the consideration of the valour of the troops displayed in a particular action.—The instance alluded to last night by my noble friend (Harrowby) when your lordships were called upon to confer a vote of thanks upon sir John Stuart and the army under his command, for the glorious victory gained at Maida, must be well remembered. It must be in your lordships' recollection, that when a noble baron, in this house, and another of his Majesty's ministers, in another place, moved a similar tribute of approbation of their conduct, whatever difference of sentiment might exist, as to the measures which led to that event, such was the brilliancy of the act itself, such was the glory gained by British intrepidity and valour on the occasion, that without investigating other measures
135134133132The Earl of Liverpool
136 continued—My lords, I did not mention the opinion of his Majesty, in any manner, but as the advised opinion of his ministers for which they are responsible; and in that I conceive I am justified, according to the usage of this House I will again ask your lordships, how the victory of Talavera was estimated by our allies? Why, universally, they considered it one of the greatest magnitude in itself and of the most advantageous nature in its consequences. It filled the breasts of the people of Spain with general admiration. It will never do, my lords, to judge of mili-
136The Earl of Liverpool
137 said, as a professional man, that it was with pain to his feelings he rose to state those objections which irresistibly impelled him to express his opposition to the motion of thanks to lord Wellington. On all occasions, he was sure that the British army would discharge their duty, and, in every emergency, exhibit proofs of unquestionable valour; but he could not, as a military man, allow that the noble general had acted prudently, in having brought himself into such a situation, as that in which the battle was fought, without his having the power to decline it. The noble earl had alluded to the battle of Maida—but that brilliant action was not to be compared with the contest at Talavera. It was decisive in its issue, and did not come under their lordships consideration, in a questionable shape, like the victory of Talavera. He could not denominate that a victory, where a retreat immediately followed, and the wounded and the prisoners fell into the hands of the enemy. The noble earl had dwelt, with much stress, upon the artillery taken on the spot—but the capture of artillery was not to be considered at all times as a signal of victory. It might have been convenient for the enemy to leave them on the field. As to the reinforcement of 30,000 men, which was advancing to support the French, why did not lord Wellington know of their situation, and the probability of their approach? It was the duty of every general to have such information. He thought, when considering the amount of the British force in the Peninsula, and that only so small a portion of it was brought into action at Talavera, there was ground for reprehension; and this conduct appeared perfectly conformable to the manner whereby the same general brought only half of his forces to act against the enemy at the battle of Vimeira. He had listened with attention to the observations of the noble earl, respecting the situation of the country, and he would only ask, how came it that we were so si-
137The Earl of Suffolk
138 was induced from considerations of duty, to rise on this occasion, and with whatever regret to state those reasons which led him to oppose this motion of thanks to lord Wellington. In the first, place, he was apprehensive that if the House were to be called upon to vote thanks for every instance of the display of valour, the proceeding would draw after it injurious results. The consequence would be, that if a single division exhibited proofs of determined bravery, their lordships would be called upon to vote away thanks, which was the highest honour they could bestow. Nay, the principle might be extended, and then the bravery of a single detachment, or an individual act of valour, would expect this high tribute of commendation. Whenever consequences no way beneficial, still more injurious, resulted to the country, from any operation of an army, whatever admiration might attach itself to the conduct of that army during such operation, he did not perceive the propriety of their being publicly thanked by the Parliament. The battle of Corunna, and the vote of thanks on that occasion, had been quoted as justifying a similar proceeding respecting Talavera: but, in his opinion, the former was not, on account of its consequences, entitled to that distinction, though certainly preferable to one under consideration. He wished to know from ministers whether or not, supposing the lamented sir John Moore had returned to this country after the battle of Corunna, they would have proposed a similar vote of thanks, passing over the, on his part, unblamable failure of success that occasioned that battle to be fought
138Earl Grosvenor
152151150149148147146 replied to the noble earl who had just sat down. If it was painful, he said, to the noble earl to perform a public duty by opposing the present motion, and that it was really painful to him would be readily believed by all who knew the honourable feelings which belonged to the character of that noble earl, the generosity of his nature, the liberality of his sentiments, and his proud descent from a person so highly distinguished for military talents and services: how painful must be the situation in which he stood, who could not but be open to private feeling, while he also had a public duty to perform: who had to vindicate the character and conduct of so
152151150149148147146The Marquis Wellesley
145144143142141 having been so particularly alluded to by the noble lord, who had just sat down, begged leave to trouble their lordships with a few observations upon the question then under their consideration. The noble lord had alluded to what he had said on a former evening; namely, that it was doubtful, whether the battle of Talavera was a victory or not; he must again repeat that doubt, for he had yet to learn that it was a victory; still more, that it was a splendid and decisive victory as described by the noble lord. He could not discover any circumstances in its nature or results, which entitled it to the character of a victory, much less to that of a splendid and decisive victory; and under this impression, however painful the duty, and however much he might regret it, still he felt it to be his duly to resist the conferring of that high reward, the thanks of that House, which it was now sought to bestow. The noble earl (Liverpool) had indulged in a vein of declamation, upon the propriety and the expediency of conferring rewards upon military merit. He was, certainly, ready to agree with the noble earl in the propriety of bestowing rewards, where rewards were deserved, and of conferring the high honour of the thanks of that House upon transcendant merit; but he could not agree that the battle of Talavera was an event that ought to be characterized in such a way or remunerated by that superior distinction. Before, however, he should go into the discussion of the subject immediately before the House, he would beg leave to say a few words relative to the instance of the victory of Maida, for which the noble earl had stated, that the thanks of that House had been given, although the objects of the expedition of Sir John Stuart, had completely failed. He (lord Grey) was not aware that the objects of that expedition had completely failed, as slated by the noble earl. If they did fail, the failure was remote. It would be recollected that a French force was at that period assembled on the Neapolitan coast for the purpose of making a descent on Sicily. To destroy this force was the object of the expedition of sir John Stuart, and in that object he
145144143142141Earl Grey
nem. dis. professed his hearty concurrence in these motions. The inferior officers and the army had done their duty in the most admirable manner, and he hoped these motions would pass nem. dis.Earl Grey
 rose to order. He considered any mention of his Majesty's sentiments, in the course of a debate, as irregular, and inconsistent with the privileges of the House.Earl Grey
140139 expressed his wish to offer a few remarks upon the question proposed for their lordships decision. He was not possessed of those talents, and that experience, which belonged to the noble lord opposite (earl Grey) who appeared to be attending to every thing he might urge, and was preparing to answer every argument. Still, however inferior he might consider himself to the noble earl, in other respects, he could not reconcile it to his feelings or his duty not to communicate his sentiments on this occasion to the House. Looking at the conduct of the noble general, in his march from Portugal to the battle of Talavera; looking to the decided victory obtained there; and then contemplating the circumstances of his able retreat, he felt
140139Viscount Mountjoy
154153 observed, that he never rose to perform his duty with greater pain than he did at this time; but a public duty it was, and he could not shrink from it. The view he had of the subject was this from the first moment that it had been agitated he knew that it could not be regarded in that narrow light as to make this the sole question, whether eminent valour and even skill had been displayed on the day of battle. No; he thought that the subject must be treated in a manner which would shew the propriety of giving, in the first place, the information which his noble friend (Grey) had required on a former occasion respecting the campaign, and especially relative to that most calamitous event, the march into Spain. His opinion was supported by the manner in which his noble friend opposite (Wellesley) had discussed, the subject. He had, and properly in his opinion, not confined himself to the transactions of the day of battle, but taken a comprehensive, view of the causes and consequences of that battle. The events of twenty-four hours might be sufficient to prove the merits of the soldier, although the sufferings both before and after a battle might constitute no small portion even of the soldier's deserts. But the case of a general was widely different. This question was none of his seeking. But he must say, that even a victory, if attended with calamitous circumstances, did not deserve the thanks of that House. The conduct of lord Wellington ought to be examined as connected with the plans of the government at home, and as connected with the state of the country whose cause he had been sent to support; and it was for these reasons that he thought the information to which he had adverted ought to be granted before coming to any vote on this subject. If the Spanish forces had been directed by the spirit which distinguished the British troops, then, certainly, any one might be justified in forming the most brilliant expectations of the result of a plan in which both co-operated. But, as the case stood, the question was, whether a British army ought to have been risked in an enterprise which depended, so much on Spanish co-operation. A plan was,
154153Lord Grenville
211 said, that the term military advisers, applied to the Commander in Chief and his Staff, but he did not mean to state, that it was solely by their
211The Earl of Liverpool
 contended that it was not a proper question to ask, at whose suggestion any measure was adopted. He had already stated, that his Majesty's ministers were responsible for the Orders alluded to. His Majesty's military advisers would not, of course, direct the adoption of any measure without the permission of his Majesty's government, nor would the latter adopt any military measure without the concurrence of the former.The Earl of Liverpool
 presented a number of Papers, consisting of Military Correspondence, &c. relative to this Expedition, and observed, that the greater part of the Papers would be ready for delivery on Wednesday.The Earl of Liverpool
212 referring to the notice he had given on a former day for Thursday next, for a motion of inquiry respecting the Campaign, said, that the House of Commons having since determined to institute an inquiry, and which he was bound to suppose would be a strict and effectual inquiry into the causes and consequences of the calamitous Expedition to the Scheldt, and it having been suggested to him, that as the result of that Inquiry might be to bring the authors of those calamities, whoever they were, judicially before that House, it would not be proper to adopt any proceeding which might tend to prejudge a question on which they might be afterwards called upon judicially to decide; he therefore moved to discharge the order for the attendance of their lordships on Thursday, reserving to himself the right of again bringing forward the question at a future period, if circumstances should render it necessary. At the same
212The Marquis of Lansdowne,
 observed, that he must then be satisfied with understanding that his Majesty's military advisers and his Majesty's ministers had both agreed in issuing the General Orders.Earl Grey
 thought the statement of the noble earl not sufficiently satisfactory, as it did not explain by whose advice the General Orders were issued. If those orders were merely the act of his Majesty's ministers, then the impression, which the noble earl talked of, was merely that which they themselves had created.Earl Grey
 referring to what had been said by the earl of Liverpool, on Friday night, respecting the impression made by the receipt of intelligence of the Battle of Talavera, and the General Orders issued upon that occasion; wished to be informed, who the Military advisers of his Majesty were; the noble earl made use of that term, in stating by whose advice those General Orders were issued.Earl Grey,
 had no objection to the production of the papers moved for by the noble earl; the transaction to which they referred being a thing past, no public inconvenience could now result from producing them. It might, perhaps, be necessary that some further papers should be produced: and if, upon investigation, he should find it so, he would move for them on Monday.Marquis Wellesley
266 moved for several papers relative to Mr. Erskine's negotiations in America, consisting of dispatches from Mr. Canning to Mr. Erskine, containing instructions, &c.; dispatches from the latter to the former; and letters
266Earl Grey
nem. con. said, that he was glad the papers were to be produced. He had some particular reasons for rising on this occasion to address a few observations to their lordships; considering the connection he stood in to that very near relation of his, who was intrusted by Government with the American negotiation. There was only one small piece of paper which would appear when the papers were produced, of which he knew any thing. He declared upon his honour, that he had never seen the instructions, nor was consulted nor acquainted with the particulars of the transaction. It had been said, that from his known difference in politics with the present administration, it was likely, that the gentleman who was entrusted with the negociations, had acted under the impression of political principles different from those of the government which employed him in so important a situation. In his name, he (lord Erskine) took upon himself publicly to disavow such a feeling and such conduct. If he could have believed that; such were the case—if he thought that he could have acted upon opinions of his own, contrary to those of that government of which he was only the instrument and agent, then, nearly as he was connected with him, he should not only have reprobated his conduct, he should never again have spoken a word to him in the whole course of his life. His lordship said he came into that House, free from any private considerations, to the discussion of the business respecting America, and to give his opinion and his vote, as a statesman and a peer of parliament, with a view only to the true interests of his country.nem. con.Lord Erskine
351 represented in strong terms the light in which ministers placed themselves before parliament and the country, by coming forward so hastily in the first instance to procure thanks, and then suddenly sending the noble admiral to a court martial, with the thanks on their lips. The noble lord opposite did not want the officers' conduct nicely sifted; but he thought that in a matter of parliamentary thanks, the case should be clear and strong to receive such a reward. What! said lord Cochrane, "look at and sift the log-book." He condemned the precipitancy of ministers, who, by their measures, endeavoured to stultify the House, as they had already stultified their own administration. After sending lord Gambier through the ordeal of a court martial, he now came down, pronounced his praises, and called on the House to vote him their thanks! It was not in this manner that the French government conducted itself to their admirals and generals. They instituted a very severe inquiry as to this affair at Basque Roads, and many of their commanders were most severely punished. They did not give thanks to general Monnet, for his defence of Flushing; but on the contrary, they censured his conduct most severely. If the barren thanks of both Houses of Parliament were often to be voted in this way, they would soon cease to be of any value. The noble lord who moved those thanks, had spoken a great deal about the battle of Talavera, and the resistance that was made to the Vote of Thanks in that instance. Now, it did not appear to him,
351Lord Holland
352 said, that in agreeing to the vote of thanks to lord Gambier, he thought he would be acting in conformity to the general sense of the House and the country. He could not, however, avoid making some observations on the conduct of the admiralty, which, he thought, a due regard to the discipline of the navy made necessary. He thought the admiralty was wrong in ordering a court-martial to be held on lord Gambier. When the letter of that noble lord was first published, there was no other feeling throughout the country but exultation and applause. It did not, at that time, occur to anyone that he deserved to be brought to a court-martial. It appeared to him, that when the first lord of the admiralty first conceived it to be his duty to move the thanks of the House to lord Gambier, he ought not to have allowed himself to be stopped in what he felt was due to that noble lord, by any expressions which fell from a junior officer. Although the noble lord had been most honourably acquitted, yet, he must contend, that there was no sufficient cause for putting him on his trial, and subjecting him to such an ordeal. He must also say, that he conceived the admiralty to have acted extremely wrong in giving to a noble lord (lord Cochrane) a command, which was so contrary to the usual rules of the service, and which must have been so galling and disgusting to the feelings of the other officers in lord Gambier's fleet. He respected as much as any man the zeal, intrepidity, and enterprize of the noble lord (Cochrane), but it was wrong to presume that these qualities were wanting in the many brave captains of that fleet, who were in standing superior to his lordship. The making such a selection naturally put that noble lord upon attempting enterprizes by which great glory might be obtained by him personally, whereas the other noble lord (Gambier) was principally to attend to the safety of the whole fleet committed to his charge. Lord Gambier had sufficiently distinguish-
352Lord Melville
 defended the conduct of the admiralty.The Earl of Liverpool
 did not think the services of lord Gambier of such a nature as to require the particular thanks of the House. He thought that they should only be given on very signal and important victories. Nobody could doubt that they were due to lord Howe for his victory on the 1st of June; to lord Duncan, for his victory at Camperdown; to lord St. Vincent, for his glorious achievements near that cape from which he took his title; or, to the immortal Nelson, for the splendid exploits with which he has adorned our naval history. These were things which spoke for themselves, and nobody could doubt the propriety of voting thanks, as it were, by acclamation. He thought, however, the services of lord Gambier were of a very inferior description, and called for no such reward.Earl Grosvenor
 thought that party should not interfere in questions of this nature. If the thanks of parliament were merited, they ought not be given under circumstances which went to lessen their value, nor should any other question be agitated upon such occasions, not connected with the point at issue. A noble viscount had censured the appointment of lord Cochrane, though he had often said before, that that was not the place to discuss the propriety of such appointments. He entered into a justification of the government in granting the court-martial, which, especially as lord Gambier himself had applied for it, he considered it was right to appoint; nor could he see, if it was right to vote for the thanks before the court-martial, that it could be wrong to vote for them after. The question of the court-martial affected the government alone, and was in no way connected with the merits or demerits of his lordship.The Lord Chancellor
 conceived that there were two questions for the consideration of the House. First, If there was sufficient evidence to have induced them to grant the thanks of the House to lord Gambier before the court martial took place. And, secondly, If any thing had there occurred to render questionable a circumstance of which, previous to that time, there could have been no doubt? His lordship was of opinion, that, in both these respects, an answer in favour of the noble gallant admiral must be given. It was impossible not to say, that previous to the question in consequence of which the court martial was granted, every thing seemed highly honourable to the gallant and noble lord; and it was equally indisputable, that, the event of the court martial had added to, rather than detracted from the merits of the noble and gallant admiral.Lord Sidmouth
 had no objection to the vote of thanks; but at the same time, he thought this one of the efforts now too often resorted to, by voting thanks to the officers employed, to throw a false lustre on the government. To attempt to compare the service rendered to the country by the achievement in question, with the battles of the Nile or of Trafalgar, would be the height of presumption.Earl Darnley
346, agreeably to the statements contained in his Majesty's Speech on the first day of the session, presented certain Papers relative to the commercial prosperity of the country, consisting of Accounts of the amount of its Exports and Imports for the last two or three years. The noble earl, in laying these papers upon the table, took the opportunity of giving a general statement of the trade of the country for the three quarters ending the 10th October, 1809, compared with
346Earl Bathurst
350349 on rising to make his motion for a Vote of their lordships' Thanks to lord Gambier, began, by alluding to the motion of earl Grosvenor, for the letter of the Admiralty to lord Cochrane, which he still thought could not bear directly upon the present question: though his lordship admitted the right of any noble lord to make such parliamentary use of any paper produced, as he might think fit. He thought this was a case, in which party feelings ought not to be suffered to operate; and adverted to the case of the Vote of Thanks to lord Keppel, and to the protest against the Vote of Thanks to lord Wellington for the glorious battle of Talavera. He considered the operations of the navy in Basque Roads, under the direction
350349Lord Mulgrave
353 regretted much that government had departed from the usual course upon such occasions; it was always customary, on hearing of any great victory, to vote the thanks, upon which principle lord Gambier should have been thanked in the first instance. He admitted that the service was important, and was persuaded that the public thought more highly of lord Gambier, since the court-martial, than before it; he, for his part, would give the thanks to the noble
353The Earl of Buckinghamshire
348347 rose, for the purpose of submitting to their lordships consideration some remarks upon the observations made by his noble friend, and also upon the papers, which had just been laid upon their lordships' table. It was not only surprising but it was a species of conduct of which no example was any where to be found but amongst his Majesty's pre-
348347Lord Grenville
 observed, that so much had been urged, and so little answered on the subject of the motion, that he should not have occasion to trouble their lordships at great length. If ever the thanks of that House should happen to be voted on principles of party feeling, their value would diminish, and they would no longer be the object of the valour and enterprize of our soldiers and seamen. Their lordships should reserve their thanks for great occasions; he would not say that this was not one; but as far as the admiralty could do, they had rendered it a matter of doubt. They had brought the noble admiral to a court-martial, not on the accusation, not on charges preferred by an inferior officer, but merely on his declaration, that, as a member of another House, he should feel himself obliged to oppose the thanks.Lord Grenville
356 addressed lord Gambier to the following purport,—"Baron Gambier, I am requested to inform you that this House has passed an unanimous Vote of Thanks for the skill, zeal, ability and anxious attention which you so eminently displayed against the enemy in Basque roads, whereby you were enabled,
356The Lord Chancellor
 rose to explain. He had not made, nor did he mean to make, the slightest reflection on that excellent officer, admiral Domett. He was confident that many parts of the reports, not yet produced, might be given without any danger whatever; and he would inform the noble lord, that he should move on a future occasion for such parts as might, without public detriment, be produced. He denied that he made any charge of rashness or neglect against the noble lord. Whenever he should feel it his duty to do so, he should take care that the noble lord should understand his intentions. As to what had been said of his leaving retirement and coming up to town, he supposed that the noble lord intended it for the purpose of amusement, and to his amusement he had no particular objection. He then regretted the decay of ship-timber here, and alluded to the two commissions of the House of Commons in 1774 and 1792. His opinion was in favour of constructing the proposed dock at Northfleet, the expence of which the public affairs could, for such a purpose, very well spare, if the finances were well managed, and not wasted on fruitless exertions.Lord Melville
 moved the order of the day, for taking into consideration his Majesty's Message, recommending it to that House to concur in the measure for granting a Pension to lord Wellington. On a former occasion, when he had the honour of moving the thanks of that House to that noble viscount for his brilliant and important services in the battle of Talavera, he had little expectation that his motion would have encountered any opposition; but in that hope he had been disappointed, and perhaps his present motion was destined to meet with a similar opposition. He should beg it, however, to be recollected that lord Wellington's services were not confined to the battle of Talavera only; that the noble viscount had performed important and splendid services in other climates and countries, and that within a very short period he had twice delivered the ancient and faithful ally of this country from the unjust domination of the enemy. Whether, therefore, the House had to consider the number or the importance of lord Wellington's exploits, they must think him eminently entitled to any mark of favour and reward which it was in their power to bestow. A similar reward had often been granted for a single action, where no previous service of any magnitude had been achieved; but on the present occasion, it was a series of brilliant services, which the House had to acknowledge and remunerate. He did not think it necessary to dwell any longer on a subject which called not for any argument to enforce it; but should content himself with moving, "That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, assuring his majesty that this House would cheerfully concur in the measure to which his Majesty's most gracious Message referred."The Earl of Liverpool
358 thought, that
358The Duke of Norfolk
360359 rose to make the motion of which notice was given in his name by the earl of Aberdeen. His lordship said, that this was a question which ought to have no relation to, nor be influenced by party feelings, as it was one which concerned only the essential interests of the country. In the time that lord Howe was at the head of the admiralty, and sir Charles Middleton of the navy board, a practice prevailed which had not prevailed since; that of keeping a regular digest of the regulations and rules for the direction of the dock yards and the administration of the civil service generally of the navy. There had been no revision of the rules or the practice on this subject till recently, since the times when the duke of York was lord high admiral a century ago. His lordship here entered into a review of the Reports of Naval Revision which contained a very useful history of the navy of Great Britain. He wished to impress on the House, first, that all the Reports of the committee of Naval Revision were originally made not as containing plans for permanent and final adoption, but suggestions for trial, and as experiments to receive improvements from the result of experience, and the well-founded opinions of those who are competent to advise upon the subject. All the Reports which had been placed in the hands of the King, and since produced to that House, as well as the four Reports which had not been laid before them, were to be considered as having the character he described. He could give a variety of illustrations of this opinion from various parts of the Reports; but it was impossible to enter into such a detail, without engrossing too much of their lordships' time. He should particularly notice one circumstance in the Reports, and that was the great difference in the modes of keeping the accounts therein suggested; one in an early Report on the admiralty board, concerning the dock yards; the other, in the 11th Report, respecting the Victualling board. He shewed, in an extract of a Letter from the
360359Lord Melville
 said, that having already stated the reasons why he objected to the Vote of Thanks, and entered his opinion on the Journals, he should not now trouble the House further on the subject; especially as, if the bill came up from the other House, there would be other opportunities of discussion. He begged to say, however, that he retained his opinions formerly delivered on this subject. He must therefore give his negative to the motion.Earl Grey
363362361 was not fully prepared to make that reply which perhaps would be most consistent with the motion of the noble viscount. With regard to the propriety of many of his observations, no one would question their real importance. But no one more than the noble viscount ought to be convinced, from experience, that considerable confidence ought to be placed in those who directed the affairs of the admiralty. It was not his own wish that these Reports should, in their present
363362361Lord Mulgrave
357 returned answer, in purport, as follows: "My Lords, I am fully sensible of the honour conferred upon me, by the vote of thanks which your lordships have been pleased unanimously to bestow. No greater reward can possibly be given to any man than the thanks of this House; and no greater inducement can be held out to stimulate the zeal and exertions of those who serve in the cause of their country. If, my Lords, on former occasions, I was led to consider this attention to my services as an obligation, I do now, and shall in future, still endeavour to entertain every due sense of such distinguishing favour. I have also, my lord, to acknowledge my obligation to you for the condescending and gracious manner in which you have conveyed to
357Lord Gambier
375 remarked, that it was now about three years since their lordships, having abolished the disgraceful African slave trade, carried up an address to his Majesty, beseeching his Majesty to use such measures, in his wisdom, as might conduce to the abolition of that traffic on the part of those powers in amity with his Majesty. He particularly alluded to America, and to Spain and Portugal. The first of these powers, from
375Lord Holland
 assured their lordships that he felt every desire to furnish every possible information respecting the question put by the noble lord, He might take it upon him to say, that in pursuance of the directions of parliament his Majesty's ministers at the different courts in amity with his Majesty, had been instructed to make representations on this head to the courts at which they respectively resided; that such representations had been made to the government of the United States; and also to that of Spain and of Portugal, or rather of the Brazils; but that these countries were now differently situated, both with regard to Great Britain and with relation to one another from the circumstances in which they were placed when the representation had first been made. Our relations were not now on a footing with America, to allow us immediately to recommend or follow up that sort of arrangement. The situation of Spain and of Portugal were also very different: and in the present situation of both, it could not be expected that any thing definitive could be ultimately arranged. At the same time he might assure the noble lord, that the proper instructions to that effect had been given to the British minister at the Brazils, and to the minister in Spain, as far as that country, under its present relations with its colonies, could be able to examine and decide the question.The Earl of Liverpool
376 said, that the answer was, to him, quite unsatisfactory. The object of the Address was not, he reminded noble lords, the negotiating with foreign powers to create for us every facility for our abolition of this disgraceful and inhuman traffic, but the persuading of other powers, our friends and allies, to follow the glorious example we had set them, and co-operate with us in putting an end
376Lord Holland
 observed, that he believed he was regular in moving, that the Act of the 48th Geo. 3, respecting Reversions, be now read.The Lord Chancellor
 was not disposed to enter into the merits of the present Bill, against which he understood an objection would be taken, in the first instance, as to some technical informality. Now, he should wish to hear what those technical objections were; for, if he should find them of sufficient validity, he should reserve his observations for a future occasion, when the bill might be freed from informalities of that nature.Earl Grosvenor
437 said, he had moved the reading of the former Act, in order, that their lordships might be fully aware of the nature of the objection, which, he
437The Lord Chancellor
 had not heard any argument from the noble and learned lord to induce him to think that this bill ought to be rejected. It was a subject respecting which there was a great anxiety on the part of the public, and he thought no time ought to be lost in considering it. He did not see the alledged inconsistency in the point of view urged by the noble and learned lord, nor did he think that if the bill were to pass in its present shape it would involve any absurdity.Earl Grosvenor
 put the question for the second reading, which was negatived. He then moved, that the bill be rejected; which was agreed to.The Lord Chancellor
 then gave notice, that he should as soon as possible bring in another bill not liable to the same objection.Earl Grosvenor
 rose, and proposed his bill for preventing the granting of places in reversion. After a few observations from the noble lord, the question was about to be put for the first reading of the bill, when,Earl Grosvenor
 was much surprised to hear of this kind of objection, to a measure which had been already recognized by parliament, which had been in part effected by the passing of the bill suspending the exercise of the royal prerogative; an objection which had never occurred before, not even in the case of the rejection of the last bill. Ministers had not expressed any such ground of objection, nor stated their opinions against the bill. He was, therefore, desirous of knowing their sentiments on this important subject.Earl Grosvenor
 spoke with much animation in support of the first reading of the bill. He contended, that the practice of the House of Commons was different from that of their lordships, in whose House it was not necessary to give any exposition of the character of a measure previously, nor to give notice of an intended motion. The first reading would put their lordships in full possession of the nature of the bill. It was due to the other House, to the general opinion of the public, and to the spirit of the measure of suspension already enacted, and which would expire in a few weeks, to go fairly into the consideration of the bill now introduced by his noble friend.The Earl of Rosslyn
 contended that the practice of that House required no notice of motion, nor previous exposition of reasons for introducing a bill, the reading of which would acquaint every noble lord with the object of it. It was strange that this bill should meet with such an objection, after its principle had been so often before them. He wished to know what ministers, the confidential servants of the crown, the persons to whom the government of the country was entrusted, had to say to this measure. Did they object to it or not? The acting ministers of the crown were not present in the House, but there were some members of the government present; and he desired to know from them their sentiments on the objection, and on the merits of the bill itself.Lord Holland
494 submitted to the House his objections to the measure. His lordship observed, that in cases where the interest of the crown was directly concerned, the consent of the crown was given, according to the practice of parliament, to the proposed measure. The present bill affected the rights of the royal prerogative,
494Lord Arden
495 supported the observation of his noble friend (lord Arden,) respecting the practice whenever the interests of the crown were concerned. The want of attention to it in one instance was no reason for neglecting it in another. The precedents in this question were favourable to such attention. But to afford the fairest opportunity of full information on this subject, he should prefer postponing the adjournment of this debate until the next day, by which time noble lords could consult the journals of the House as to all matters of precedent that bore upon the subject. His lordship added, that he thought it was generally expected, on the introduction of a bill,
495Lord Redesdale
511510509508507l.l.l. rose to move an Address to his Majesty, assuring his Majesty of the cheerful concurrence of that House in promoting the objects of his Majesty's most gracious communication. He really was at a loss to conjecture what could be the nature of the objections that would be raised to the present motion. The arrangement which it recommended, proceeded on the general principles of the policy which has so long and so uniformly guided the conduct of this country towards Portugal. It proceeded not only in those general principles, but also on the principle which now induced us to succour Spain, and on the plan established of making the defence of Portugal auxiliary to the defence of Spain. It also proceeded on the principle of animating and combining the efforts of our allies in the pro-secution of the arduous contest in which they and this country were now engaged, He would ask then, what has of late occurred to make us swerve from that good faith which has hitherto characterized our connection with Portugal, or to depart from those principles which have invariably influenced our alliance with that kingdom, to the present hour?—In the course of what he had briefly to state on the present occasion, he should first advert to the nature of the arrangement recommended in his Majesty's Message. That arrangement would be folly understood by a reference to the papers now on the table. In the early part of those transactions which menaced the independence of Portugal, it was proposed in aid of the cause of that country to take 10,000 Portuguese troops into the pay of England to be commanded by British officers. At a subsequent period it was judged expedient to add 10,000 more to that number, and lastly in the present year, it was thought proper to carry the extent of that force to 30,000 men by a further addition of 10,000 more. The charge for the first 20,000 men was estimated at 600,000511510509508507l.l.l.The Marquis Wellesley
529528527526 considered the Amendment as a virtual motion for the removal of his Majesty's ministers. It would, indeed, be more becoming the noble lord as well as a shorter course to his object, to have embodied the substance and gist of his speech in a specific proposition to that effect. The motion of the noble lord went not only to the length of removing ministers, but even to oblige the country to abandon Portugal. What else was the meaning of those arguments their lordships had just heard? What else was the meaning of that appeal, of that dangerous and impolitic appeal to
529528527526The Earl of Liverpool
531530 said, that if the question between the adoption of the Address and the Amendment were such as the noble secretary of state had assumed—if no other alternative was left than the abandonment of Portugal, or the rejection of the Amendment, he had no hesitation in stating, that he would be among the first to reject it. But the nature of the Amendment was quite misunderstood, or, if not misunderstood, misrepresented by the noble secretary. It appeared to him to call merely for inquiry, with a view to the adoption and arrangement of a different system of policy for the conduct of the war. If the system pursued by his Majesty's ministers had corresponded with his views, he should have continued to maintain it conformably to the sentiments which he had on a former occasion expressed upon the subject of Spain. Every moment's reflection, indeed, satisfied him of the justice of these sentiments—But yet the noble lord was not entitled to call on him for support, inasmuch as the conduct of his government did not correspond with those sentiments. The propriety of interfering in the concerns of Spain, and the mariner of directing that interference, were quite distinct questions; and sorry he was to find, that much as he approved of the former, he saw nothing but what he must censure in the latter. Instead of encouraging and promoting the cause of Spain, that cause seemed in the measures conducted under the direction of ministers, but a secondary object. Instead of taking such a position in Spain as might afford, not only to the people of that country, but to any of the subjects of the enemy interested
531530The Earl of Moira
533 adverting to what had fallen from the noble viscount, who had just spoken, relating to the conduct of Portugal in 1762, wished to God the situation of affairs was as favourable for England as at that period. The government of that day had prudence, wisdom, and energy. The present ministers differed as much from them as the feeble government of Louis the 15th did from the energy of that government which now unfortunately wields the sceptre and resources of France. It was never good policy to copy our own proceedings on a former period, and regulate our conduct by geographical maxims when circumstances were changed. Were they, after the melancholy experience they had already felt, again to expose the army to new disasters, while yet mourning the 12,000 already lost? Were the remaining resources of the country to be entrusted to those who had wasted the former, and who now unblushingly called for renewed confidence? It was always bad policy to become principals in a continental war, and such we should be if the proposed force was to be kept up in Portugal. The army with which we were to co-operate was not to be depended upon. He could by no means agree in the praises that were bestowed en the Portuguese or on their armies. When did they shew themselves worthy of this implicit confidence, or abounding with this exuberance of affections? Was it at Vimiera, where they were not trusted with the conduct of a single operation? Was it at the time that sir John Moore marched into Spain, when he was obliged to weaken his army, and leave 10,000 men behind him at Lisbon, to keep the population in awe, and prevent them from rising on their own government? The noble secretary, who
533The Marquis of Lansdowne,
536535 could not understand the spirit in which noble lords were willing to
536535Lord Holland
 supported the amendment. The ministers had almost destroyed three armies in the course of twelve months, and had within that period, and to little or no purpose, expended more of the military and pecuniary resources of the country than any of their predecessors had done in the course of ten years. Under these circumstances, their lordships could not give them their confidence in the further prosecution of this line of policy, without inquiry.Earl Darnley
505504 presented two petitions from the Roman Catholics of England, the first stating the hardships arising from the disabilities under which they laboured, and respectfully praying to be relieved from them; and the second expressing their willingness to consent to any arrangement that might be deemed necessary for the security of the existing establishments which might not be inconsistent with their own religious opinions.—The petitions having been read, his lordship said he should merely now move that they be laid on the table, and should not probably make any motion relative to them during the session. He could not, however, omit the opportunity of making a few observations upon the subject to which these petitions related, and which, in whatever point of view considered, was one of the greatest importance. At the present momentous crisis, it was surely of the utmost consequence to the security of the empire to unite all his Majesty's subjects heartily and cordially in the defence of the country. Yet, as the petition stated in the
505504Earl Grey
 considered the opposition of the noble marquis as rather levelled against ministers than against the measure under consideration. If he wished ministers out of their places, why did he not call for their dismissal, rather than attempt to tie up their hands while in office. With respect to Portugal, if it was intended to abandon her to her fate, it would be better to give her notice at once of such an intention, that she might know on what she had to depend, and make the best terms she could with the enemy. Our sacrifices, he contended, had at least afforded our allies a better chance than they could otherwise have had in the unequal struggle, and if through want of talent on their part in the cabinet, or valour in the field, the cause was lost, England was not to be blamed. The calumnies that had been uttered, were, he thought, sufficiently refuted. The valour displayed by our troops had raised our national character, as the more recent our victories were, the higher we stood in the estimation of Europe, and the greater was our internal security.The Earl of Harrowby
532 was of opinion that government had neglected to avail themselves of the favourable opportunity for striking a decisive blow in the peninsula. He should feel much reluctance, however, at withdrawing our succours from Portugal, if without too great a risk we could assist her with any prospect of success. Her long attachment to this country, the sincerity of which had been so forcibly evinced at different periods, and most particularly in 1762, was such, that we ought to feel it incumbent upon us to afford her every assistance in our power. He was unwilling to accede to the amendment, as he thought it would be unjustifiable to withdraw our troops before such a measure became absolutely necessary. He
532Viscount Sidmouth
 was of opinion that ministers had a difficult game to play, but that it was indispensable that they should not be impeded in their proceedings. The Portuguese campaign might terminate well or ill, but it was a claim on British honour, that Portugal should not be deserted; we had accepted from the prince the right of its protection, and we could not throw off the responsibility under which we had put ourselves, without proving that we had done our utmost to do our duty.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
534 begged their lordships to reflect, that not merely the conduct of ministers, but that of their lordships them-
534Lord Erskine
525524523522521520519518517516515514513512 felt it an ungrateful task, a painful duty, to recal their lordships attention to predictions formerly made to them, but then despised and rejected; though now, unfortunately, all of them, too fatally, fulfilled. He knew how little acceptable it was to anticipate, by a referrence to our past experience a continuance of the same disasters; but in discharging that duty, he did it with the more consolation, because it was not a mere barren censure of past errors, that was his object, but rather from the consideration of those errors, to conjure them to rescue the country from similar calamities, to pay some regard to the valuable lives of their fellow-citizens, and to ask their lordships whether they were disposed to sit in that House day after day, and year after year, spectators of wasteful expenditure, and the useless effusion of so much of the best blood of the country in hopeless, calamitous, and disgraceful efforts. Such being his object in rising to address their lordships, he might plead to them the cause of the British army, which might soon be wanted for our own safety, and should, therefore, not be exposed in wild, impracticable, and useless expeditions. What return did their lordships think was due to that army for the eminent skill, and discipline, and valour which it bad displayed? it was a sacred duty imposed upon their lordships, to see that not one more life was wasted, not one more drop of blood shed unprofitably, where no thinking man could say, that by any human possibility, such dreadful sacrifices could be made with any prospect of advantage to the country. Could it be agreeable to their lordships to be fed from day to day with views of unprofitable successes—of imaginary advantages to be gained by our army, for ourselves or for our allies?—Let their lordships ask themselves the question—was there any man that heard him, who, in his conscience, believed, that even the sacrifice of the whole of that brave British army would secure the kingdom of Portugal; and if he received, from any person, an answer in affirmation of that opinion, he should be able to judge by that answer, of the capacity of such a person for the government of this country, or even for the transaction of public business in a delibe-
525524523522521520519518517516515514513512Lord Grenville
597 strenuously supported the bill. He was surprised to hear any noble lord speak of the danger of a change. Were things always to remain the same with us, however great the changes that might arise around us, in the same situation? Was the constitution a thing unsusceptible of improvement, and could it never be improved without the
597The Earl of Darnley
599598 denied that Parliament had fallen into disrepute, but if ever it should fall into disrepute, he would venture to say, that it would be from acting with a view to popularity, rather than upon the dictates of its own deliberate judgment. His lordship then gave a short statement of the manner in which these bills had been brought before the House. A resolution had first been passed by the other branch of the Legislature, adopting the principle of the abolition of the practice of granting offices in reversion. This undoubtedly, as a resolution of the other House, was entitled to a great deal of attentive and deliberate consideration from their lordships. When they came up to their lordships with a bill, conformable to that Resolution, and their lordships not choosing to assent to a measure of this importance, without taking
599598The Lord Chancellor
600 observed, that he did not think that the antiquity of any abuse was a reason for supporting it. If the practice of granting reversions had continued for 300 years, it ought to be recollected, that it had in the course of that time been severely censured by many eminent men. His lordship then adverted to a pamphlet which had lately appeared on the subject of economy, and the influence of the crown, and remarked, that the perusal had an effect upon him exactly the reverse of what was intended to; be produced. Considering the ample means of information possessed by its author (Mr. Rose), he was only surprised that it proved so little. He objected to reversions as having a tendency to generate sinecures, and the augmentation of sinecures produced new reversions in an endless circle. This measure was a real and proper reform, which he most cordially approved. As to the question of parliamentary reform, he certainly could not by any means go the length that some speculative men did, although he and others might think that there were some defects in the representation, which ought to be corrected. But the misfortune of withholding from the public the real and proper reforms to which they were entitled, was to drive them into these dangerous speculations. The vessel of the state, which had weathered the continental storm, was already among the rocks and shoals, and could not be got off without other pilots. His lordship then called upon the bishops for their support, and asked them, whether they did not esteem the act of Elizabeth, which prevented the anticipation of their revenues as the great prop of their establishment. Upon the same principle which led them
600Earl Grosvenor
590589588 moved the order of the day for the second reading of the bill for preventing the granting of places in reversion. Such was his anxiety that no delay should occur in the discussion of this important question, that, although he now laboured under a severe indisposition, he could not bring himself to propose the postponing of the discussion to a future day. He trusted his indisposition would also plead his excuse for not entering at large into the arguments which might so obviously be
590589588Earl Grosvenor
 conceived this subject to be of great importance, as it affected the prerogative; but apprehended, that the king's consent might be given, with respect to property, at any time before the third reading. Yet he was not prepared to say, that the same rule would apply in the case of prerogative. It was a subject of such importance, that he would wish it should receive every due consideration. Noble lords would not, he trusted, mistake the principle of his conduct on this occasion, for he only suggested his ideas so far as to appoint a form. He would not disguise his sentiments upon the merits of the bill, which would meet with his opposition now, as it had done upon a former occasion; but even if he had been favourable to the general prohibition of places in reversion, yet there were prohibitions of such a nature in the bill, that he should have thought it necessary to make many alterations, and do away its inconsistency, when it came before a committee.The Lord Chancellor
593 said, it appeared to him acknowledged on all sides, that the
593The Earl of Derby
594Rosslyn observed, after what he had heard from noble lords on this question, his doubts had been removed in regard to the most decorous time of having his Majesty's consent; he should therefore beg leave to withdraw his motion.594RosslynViscount Sidmouth
592591 expressed a friendly disposition towards the provisions of this bill. It met with his approbation, as a subject of considerable importance, both as it regarded the grant of the offices themselves, and as it respected the just and anxious expectation for some measures of economy and economical reform, which had been raised in the public mind. The bill appeared to him expedient in many points of view, for it would remedy great evils arising out of the grant of offices in reversion. There was one consideration in particular which had a just claim to their serious attention, if the power now existed and was exercised in granting these offices, it often created listless anxiety
592591Viscount Sidmouth
 considered it very questionable how they should act with propriety, wherever the prerogative of the crown was concerned, and therefore recommended that the second reading should be postponed.Lord Redesdale
596 looked upon the question respecting the influence of the crown, as greatly overstated and as much misunderstood. If any of their lordships should but consider attentively the history of the country, he would find that the objections urged against the influence of the crown were at all times the result of clamour and not of principle. Combinations of great, wealthy, and powerful individuals might be formed for the purpose of rendering the power of the crown dependant upon themselves; and adopting the clamour against influence make that their ladder to office; yet when possessed of their object, they usually forget the clamour against influence. The noble lord contended that the influence of the crown had derived no increase from the augmentation of the army and navy: and argued that the taxes imposed to meet the exigencies of the state, produced such a degree of dissatisfaction, in the public at large with the government, as fully counterbalanced the supposed increase of patronage and influence. He himself had not the good fortune to have any reversions; but what harm did these reversions do to their holders or to the public? There were but one or two instances in our history in which the influence of the crown had proved dangerous. In the reign of Charles I. it was ma-
596Lord Redesdale
595 was one of those who supported a bill of this nature when it was first brought forward, and was so impressed with the necessity of it, that he differed on that occasion in opinion from those with whom he was then in the habit of acting. With the propriety and necessity of a measure of that sort, he was every day more and more impressed; and a similar impression must be felt by their lordships, if they but looked to the History and origin of the measure, and to the pledge which parliament had so solemnly
595Lord Boringdon
 could not subscribe to the sentiments of his noble friend, much as he valued, and he could not value too highly, his great knowledge and experience. He could not agree that there was any clamour in the country, or that the present measure was any attempt under the influence of clamour to produce a dangerous innovation. Under the pressure of its burthens, the country very naturally looked for every alleviation which it was in the power of the parliament or the crown to give them. Parliament was pledged in the most solemn manner to bring about this very measure, and if ever there was a time when parliament should be studious to maintain its character in the eye of the country, the present was particularly that moment. He denied that the present measure would have the smallest tendency to lessen the influence, or encroach on the prerogative of the crown. It would have the very opposite effect, while it would so far secure the advantage of the country, by securing proper persons to fill those places which would be still at the disposal of the crown.The Earl of Hardwicke
Jure CoronœJure Coronœ suggested, that, from all the knowledge he had gained upon this subject, it did not appear to him that there was any great distinction between prerogative Jure CoronœJure CoronœLord Grenville
 rose, for the purpose of drawing the attention of their lordships to the returns of licensed preachers and places of worship, lately laid on their table, in consequence of the motion made by him last year. These licences extended from the year 1760 to 1808; but, although their nature and amount were such as must deeply impress upon the minds of their lordships the importance of the subject, he wished the return to be made still more complete; and, since this could be easily done, he should conclude with a motion to that end. Whatever steps it might be necessary to take respecting the object of his motion, he wished it to be distinctly understood, that he was by no means unfriendly to liberty of conscience; to a wise, liberal, and enlightened toleration. He would be the last to oppose any system of that kind, or to introduce measures subversive of it; yet so important did he consider the object which he had in view, that, should no one more qualified to accomplish it, take it up soon, he should, during the present session, feel it his duty to bring the question before that House. His lordship concluded by moving for returns of licensed preachers and places of worship in England and Wales, under the Act commonly called the Toleration Act, from the diocese records of each; and also, throughout the same countries, for returns of licences, granted at the quarter sessions for each county, to dissenting ministers, and for their places of worship. Both motions were to include all licences from 1760 to 1808.—Agreed to.Viscount Sidmouth
 thought it highly requisite that the House should be in possession of that evidence which would justify its passing this bill, so materially affecting the interests of the agriculturists throughout the kingdom.The Earl of Darnley
 said that the manner in which the bill had been brought before their lordships, and hurried on to the second residing, was degrading to the dignity of that House. Were time given, he would pledge himself, that, from not only Norfolk, but from the principal parts of Scotland, petitions would follow, complaining of the injustice of this measure.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said it would be competent for the petitioners to be heard either on going into the Committee, or on the third reading, which was no unusual thing in that House.Lord Holland
644 could not coincide with his noble friend that it was usual for evidence to be adduced at the bar on the third reading of bills—It was the general custom for their lordships to receive the evidence on the second reading, in order that every opportunity should be given for opposing the bill in its after, stages: or
644Viscount Sidmouth
 felt not the smallest objection to the petitioners being heard by their counsel at the bar; but such was the necessity for proceeding with the present Bill, that he could not agree to postpone the second reading, because the act which it was to continue, would expire in the early part of n6Xt week, besides, the noble earl must recollect, that the petitioners had a full opportunity of being heard in the future stages of its progress.Earl Bathurst
 thought it incumbent upon their lordships with a view to their consistency, not to proceed to the second reading, until the papers, documents, and other evidences, were before them, necessary to enable them to form an opinion. With respect to the expiration of the former act, it was possible to postpone the second reading till Monday— and by dispensing with one of their standing orders, an expedient which was sometimes resorted to, they might be able to pass the bill on Wednesday, the very day of the former act's expiring.The Earl of Hardwicke
 presented a petition from the landholders, farmers, and others, frequenting the market of Lynn, in the county of Norfolk, which the noble earl moved should now be read.The Earl of Albemarle
643 then said, he rose for the purpose of proposing what he conceived would be consistent with the dignity of their lordships. The petitioners were men frequenting the market of Lynn, in the county of Norfolk, which produced an immense quantity of barley; and in consequence of the Prohibition Bill, were labouring under those grievances which the petition stated. They had taken the earliest opportunity of alledging their complaints, in order that they might be heard by counsel at the bar of the House. Their lordships were in the habit of permitting those who petitioned to be heard by counsel, and he trusted the same indulgence would be allowed the present petitioners. For this purpose, he hoped the noble earl would have no objection to
643The Earl of Albemarle
