22212019 said he rose, pursuant to notice, to move for such papers as might have a tendency to throw light on a late-measure adopted in Ireland. Had he understood that the production of these papers would be conceded, he should have felt it his duty to abstain from in anywise entering upon the question; but as this was not the case, he conceived it necessary to say a few words, to induce the House to accede to his motion. The House were aware that an act had been performed by the Irish government, calculated to excite in Ireland great anxiety and irritation; an act which nothing but absolute necessity could, in his opinion, justify. It was therefore incumbent on his Majesty's ministers, if they wished to preserve the confidence of the country, to shew the existence of that necessity. He certainly was not himself much inclined to repose confidence in the administration of the right hon. gentleman opposite, and more especially as that administration regarded Ireland; because he conceived that right hon. gentleman in that respect, to have proceeded on principles of the most mischievous tendency to both countries. But when it was found that his Majesty's servants rummaged the darkest pages of the statute book, in order to inflict pains and penalties on persons who, however erroneous they might be in any particular act, were generally and substantially as meritorious subjects as any in the King's dominions, it became necessary for parliament to interfere, and not to allow the security of a whole people to be endangered, without calling on those to whom the putting it to hazard was imputable for a full explanation of the motives by which they had been influenced. It was as true as it was extraordinary, that the steps lately taken by the Irish government had been preceded by no official statement, either on
22212019The Hon. J. W. Ward
4342414039prima facie38prima facie said, he had supposed from the appearance of the House, that many other gentlemen had intended to speak on this question, and he therefore had hitherto reserved himself to hear all the objections which might be urged. As it did not appear that any other gentleman was anxious to address the House upon the subject, he must declare that, in his opinion, no 4342414039prima facie38prima facieThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
48. Sir, there is one point on which I wish to correct the hon. gent. He says, that when I came into power I gave a bond sealed with my honour never to concede the Catholic claims. To whom did I give such a bond? Never, to any one. I most distinctly deny it. I hare, indeed, by the
48The Chancellor of the Exchequer
. I gave no such pledge on my taking power. But those who had left the government were pledged to the contrary, and it was natural to expect that those who had always opposed the Catholic claims in parliament, would do so in power. So far I gave a pledge, and no farther.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 maintained there was no disorder, except what was occasioned by him who called for order. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had explained two or three times, and why should not his hon. friend be heard with equal patience.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that his hon. friend's words were directly in explanation.Mr. Abercrombie
5251 said, he should think himself unworthy of a seat in that House, if he allowed a circumstance alluded to by the hon. gent. who spoke last, to pass unnoticed; but in remarking upon it, he would preserve that good humour for which the hon. gent. himself was generally distinguished. He had been most unhappy in his allusion to the transactions of 30 years ago. He was even inaccurate as to the time, for it was not 30 years since the circumstances which he had so imperfectly described took place. The fact was, that the Irish, ill treated as they had been by Great Britain, asked for arms, and used them in your defence. That gallant nation, having an account still to settle with you, generously lent its aid when it found you in difficulty. Such was their conduct then; and had they since done nothing for you? Wherever your thunder has rolled—east, west, south, or north—have they been absent? Let that gallant people only stand neuter, and he would ask, where was the power and glory of Great Britain? Let them only remain neuter, and the strength and glory of Britain was at an end. The most glorious of your late triumphs have been not a little owing to the exertions of the gallant people whom the hon. gent. had this night traduced. He wished to say this with good temper, as far as respected the hon. gent., but at the same time with indignation, at finding within the walls of that House so much ignorance of the capabilities of Ireland, either for aggression or defence; and he was sorry to say that the hon. gent. was not the only one to whom this ignorance extended.5251Mr. C. H. Hutchinson
555453 said, he would have strictly confined himself to a few words on the subject then before the House, if it had not been for what had fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. That right hon. gentleman had said, it was most unfortunate that Irish business was always brought forward in a tone and temper rather calculated to irritate the feelings of the people of Ireland, than to produce any beneficial effect. Now, he denied the justice and the truth of that assertion. He did not wish to make use of any harsh expression, but he must say that such an assertion could only have arisen from an ignorance of the subject. If the feelings of the Irish people were irritated, it was not occasioned by any thing which had been said in that House. Were the people of that country so stupid as not to feel their misfortunes until they were told of them? He was astonished at such a remark. So lately as the 20th of June last, the commissioners in their speech, had said—"His Majesty was sorry that the pressure of the times had rendered it necessary that some addition should be made to the burdens of Ireland—but that they were so judiciously, chosen, as not to interfere with the growing prosperity of that country." But where was the proof of that growing prosperity? Was it to be found in the fact, which he defied the right hon. gent. to disprove, that the whole of, the revenue of
555453Mr. Ponsonby
 adverted to the inconvenience that must result from allowing these explanations to go into so much length, and thought it better the matter should rest.The Speaker
. Certainly this has gone into a digression. It will be for the House to consider how far they will allow it.The Speaker
 rose to order.Mr. Yorke
 again rose to order, and appealed to the chair.Mr. Yorke
2524prima facie23 rose and observed, that though he could not concur in the whole, he was inclined to agree entirely with the concluding passage of the hon. gents speech, in which he exhorted the House to an anxious consideration of the state of Ireland, and that the utmost degree of toleration and relaxation that could possibly be adopted should be conceded. There was no man in that House that could agree more cordially than he did in that sentiment, but he could not agree with the hon. gent. in that part of his speech where he charged the government of the country with adopting a system of intolerance towards Ireland. He must always deny the proposition, that because the House had not been inclined to agree to Catholic emancipation, they were therefore to call the system intolerant. So far from the system of his Majesty's government towards Ireland having been intolerant, he could venture to say, that the system pursued ever since his Majesty had ascended the throne, had been in the highest degree ameliorating and tolerant. They had, however, to lament, that there were great numbers of persons in Ireland, who appeared not to be satisfied until that point was conceded to them, denominated Catholic emancipation; but until he could admit that that point should be granted
2524prima facie23Mr. Yorke
29282726 rose and said, that he could not suffer this question to be decided without briefly delivering his sentiments upon it. The tranquillity and interests of Ireland were so intimately connected with the subject in discussion, that he could not reconcile it to himself to give a silent vote on this occasion. It appeared to him most clear that all questions connected with the state or interests of Ireland, were most materially important to Great Britain. The interests of the two countries were reciprocal. Great Britain could not exist without Ireland; nor could Ireland exist without Great Britain. Fully convinced of this truth, he always felt disposed to discuss subjects of the present nature with that temper which had been recommended by the right hon. gent. On this principle it was, he stated, that in his opinion, the parliament of this country was called upon particularly to watch over the interests of the Irish Catholic; because, having no representative in that House, he was a kind of minor, over whom that House was an honourable guardian. It appeared to him to be peculiarly necessary, that in every measure of the government, the utmost tenderness should be manifested towards the Irish Catholic, and that this idea should be constantly present in the minds of government—namely, that the Irish Catholic should be maintained in the possession of all the rights which the law had left him. If the legislature (contrary to the opinion which it was well known he entertained on the subject) determined not to give the Catholic the whole of his demands, at least it should be the care of the government not to perplex, diminish, or degrade the liberties and rights which he had obtained. He contended that it was a fundamental principle of British and imperial policy, that the communication between the Catholics of Ireland and the parliament should be free and unembarrassed. It was therefore that he condemned a measure which tended to obstruct that communication, by recurring to an act generated in spleen, and which, if not repealed, should at least be resorted to as rarely as possible. If that act were at all to be recurred to in the present times, it ought to be so construed, as to
29282726Mr. Grattan
35 said, that ever since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, he had given all the support in his power to the claims of the Catholics; and it was his ambition to continue to them that support, so long as those claims were brought forward in a peaceable and constitutional manner. It was, however, one thing to support their just claims to a participation in the blessings of the constitution, and another to countenance pretensions not admitted to, or sought for by, any other class of his majesty's subjects—pretensions which, if admitted by that House, would shortly go to annihilate the power of parliament itself. There was no difference between the right of claims on the
35Sir H. Montgomery
 then rose.Mr. Yorke and Mr. Fuller
 admitted the justness of all the encomiums upon the Irish out of their own country, but still maintained that they had been in rebellion against us.Mr. Fuller
50. Perhaps, Sir, I was not a very proper person to rise to order, but no matter for that: I confess it. When I do get up, however, I speak to the subject; aye, and pretty freely, too. When the hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Whitbread) talked about his bond and his sealing on honour, and things of that kind, all it came to in the end was 'supposing.' For that matter, I could suppose any thing myself. But he has no right to talk of other people, for I never saw a set of men sneak out of their offices in the way his own friends did.—They shewed a great deal of uneasiness. They sneaked out most contemptibly. [Order.] 'Pon my honour, Sir, it is not merely my own remark, I speak on suggestion. But the hon. gent. has no right to say or suppose that my right hon. friend would enter into a bond: No, he would disdain such a thing. He shewed them that in late affairs—he shewed them a spirit, I think, which they felt, aye, and heartily too.—[Hear, hear!]—As to these Irish affairs that they talked so much of now, why, I remember very well myself, about 30 years ago, a set of people coming down to this House, just like the hon. gentlemen, sweating and fuming, all in a fame like a steam engine. [A laugh.] The cry was then, "Won't you grant Ireland arms to fight for you?" Well, we did give them 60,000 stand of arms, and they turned them against us. I have no great faith in Catholic emancipation. I think that there is a radical and rooted antipathy between England and Ireland. [Order!] Well, then, try Catholic emancipation, if you think it will do. I care no more for a Catholic than I do for a Chinese. Give the fellows in their red waistcoats and blue breeches every thing they want. But it won't do. No, let the great men of the
50Mr. Fuller
49 stated, that he considered
49Mr. Whitbread
 submitted to the candour of the right hon. gent. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) whether, in justice even to him, he might not be permitted to explain. He did not say that the pledge had been given in so many words, or in a writing drawn up for the purpose.Mr. Whitbread
47464544 then rose and said: Sir, The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer has this night, by the speech he has just delivered, proved that there not only may be, but that there are political circumstances and changes, which in their
47464544Mr. Whitbread
 rose.Mr. Whitbread
. The right hon. gent. deserves an explanation from me, and he shall have it. I did not mean to impute to him any thing which did not pass in this House. When I said he gave a bond not to concede the Catholic claims, I referred to the manner in which he came into power. The former ministry went out of power because they would not give such a bond. He came in, and of course it was to be inferred, that he had entered into that stipulation, for refusing to enter into which his predecessors had gone out.Mr. Whitbread
34 gave the hon. gent. who moved the question before the House, infinite credit for the manner and moderation with which he had done it; and he could have wished that the right hon. gent. had confined himself merely to that question, and had not made the observations he had done respecting the oppressed state of the inhabitants of Ireland, as it tended to mislead that part of the House, not connected with that country. The fact was, that there was not an iota of difference between the situation of the great majority of the
34General Loftus
 then stated in explanation, that the majority of the Catholics of Ireland were in no worse a condition than Protestants of the same rank.General Loftus
33323130 said, that as there was a prospect of some further information on the subject being laid before the House, he would abstain from giving any opinion upon the conduct of the Irish government. He rose for the purpose of stating such circumstances connected with the history of the Convention Act as would enable it to judge how far it was an act applicable to the late proceedings of the Catholics. But he wished to make some previous observations on what had fallen from the right hon. gent. opposite, who had said that the Catholics enjoyed a complete toleration of their religion. He could not hear such an assertion without denying the truth of it in he must unqualified manner, for even with regard to the free exercise of their religion, the right hon. gent. ought to recollect, that there existed penal statutes which disabled the Catholics from doing those things which they might and certainly would do if those statutes were repealed. As to their civil rights, excluded as they were from the most important
33323130Mr. Parnell
3736 observed, that the hon. baronet who had just sat down had said, the case was one which admitted of no delay, and that the government of Ireland was entitled to the thanks of the country for the measures which had been pursued. Now, if it was a case which admitted of no delay, how happened it that nothing had been done till the 12th of February? The letter had been published in Ireland at about the middle of January, and much discussion had at that time taken place on the question, whether or not it would be best to withdraw that letter, and submit the subject to the aggregate meeting. That letter had been published in the newspapers. How then could it be unknown to the Irish government? Was it not known that lord Castleross, son to lord Kenmare, bad come from a distant part of the country to sit as a member of that Committee? With such information, how was it that the government of Ireland, having paused from the middle of January to the 12th of February, should at length issue such a circular order on its own responsibility? How was it that the information received by government could be such that it ought not to be communicated to
3736Sir John Newport
76757473ex necessitate rei7271prima facie7069 as he was the only person then in the House, who had been in his Majesty's cabinet at the period alluded
76757473ex necessitate rei7271prima facie7069Lord Castlereagh,
8180 did not know whether the right hon. gent. meant to include him among his would-be patterns of statesmen and legislators; but whatever censure his sentiments might occur on the part of that right hon. gent. neither that, nor any other consideration should ever induce him to withhold them. He had listened with attention to the very long and elaborate speech of the noble lord, from the whole of which he collected that all the noble lord wished was, to be put in a situation, in which he and his colleagues might have an opportunity of shewing their innocence. It would, therefore, be natural for him and for the House to suppose, that the noble lord and his colleagues would be glad to adopt the motion of the hon. gent. which would afford them so fair an occasion of doing so. Instead of this, however, the noble lord and the right hon. gent. had retorted upon the hon. gent. who brought forward the motion, and made a charge against him for having suffered the accusation to have lain so long dormant. This was a curious way of answering an argument: it was in fact no answer. The hon. gent. was not bound to bring it forward sooner, nor might it have been proper to have done so. It was well known how, at particular periods of time, men in certain situations were so surrounded and clothed with power, that to bring forward a question of this nature would be altogether nugatory. No space of time, however, should shelter men, who had official situations, and bad committed political crimes, from being called to account for their delinquencies. But the fact was, that the circumstances which gave rise to this charge had not been long known; and although
8180Sir F. Burden
 rose to explain: the hon. bart. had made allusions to him as a person sufficiently oppressed with the weight of personal responsibility. He had only to ask of that hon. baronet to prefer against him any charge which he thought worthy the attention of the House. He would meet it fairly, and he hoped the hon. baronet would bring it forward in the same open, candid, and manly manner, as the hon. gentleman who brought forward the present motion was accustomed to prefer his charges. One thing he must take the liberty to add, and that was, that he trusted the hon. baronet would confine his attacks to those places where he could answer them, and not where he could have no opportunity of defending himself.Lord Castltreagh
 replied, that at all times, and in all places, he should state his genuine opinions of the noble lord's public conduct, according to the dictates of his own discretion.Sir F. Burdett
 did not think that any hon. member had a right thus to allude to private matters no way connected with the business before the House. If, however, the hon. gentleman wanted a reason from him why he did not speak, he frankly owned it as his reason, that did he speak for an hour, he could not add one word to the able speech delivered by the noble lord.Mr. Bathurst
7978prima facie77 notwithstanding the very able and convincing speech of the noble lord, felt it a duty to himself, implicated as he was by the charge of the hon. gent.
7978prima facie77Mr. Yorke,
686766656463626160595857 rose, in consequence of the notice which he had given a few days ago, to submit to the consideration of the House a matter which, he no doubt, would be regarded as highly interesting to the feelings, and of the greatest importance to the interests of that House, and of the country. This position, when he should state what he had to offer to the House, would not, he trusted, adroit of doubt or contradiction. When future historians, after the party heats and political animosities of recent times, have been consigned to that silent oblivion to which the animosities and feuds of former periods have been already consigned; when these historians, removed from the period, and uninfluenced by the circumstances under which the events they will have to record have taken place, shall come with an impartial judgment, and unprejudiced feeling, to narrate the transactions of recent times, they will, notwithstanding the impressions which the influence of party animosity might have made to the contrary, in taking a review of the transactions of the present reign, conclude, that under no circumstances, and in no times, have the people of any country been more loyal or more affectionately attached to the person of their Sovereign than the people of this country have been, during a long series of years to his present Majesty. If they should only look back to the period of the last 25 years, they would find that the love and attachment of his subjects were not given alone to the King during the interesting period of youth or the prosperous and successful portion of his reign, but that they increased in times of personal affliction and infirmity; and, instead of suffering diminution, had been considerably strengthened, as his faculties and health had unhappily declined. If, then, the people of this country had delighted in the prosperities of his Majesty's government—if they had ever felt the deepest interest in the health of their Sovereign—if, in the days of his strength, they rejoiced at his happiness, and in the hours of his affliction and infirmity, they sympathised in his sorrows and mourned over his sufferings, they had a just right to know, that no foul trick had been, at any time during the existence of such respectful devotion to their monarch's interest
686766656463626160595857Mr. Whitbread
8786858483 then said, that as the House were not likely to have the benefit of that hon. gentleman's powers, he" should now proceed at once to reply very briefly to what had been advanced; and, in the first place, he contended, that not one of his assertions had been contradicted. He had stated nothing but facts, and nothing of all he had asserted as facts had been attempted to be contradicted. He had, indeed, waited for the attendance of the right hon. gent. (Mr. Bathurst), and it Was most true that he had attended; that he had, according to his own shewing; heard the best defence that could be offered in behalf of his noble relative; and though that defence did not attempt to question the truth of any one of the facts he had urged, yet the right hon. gent. had thought it prudent and discreet to give a silent vote upon such a question. The case (said Mr. Whitbread) is before the House. I rest it upon a statement of facts, and that statement is not attempted to be controverted; the alledged facts are not disputed by that noble lord, to whose speech, in the opinion of the right hon. gent. nothing can be added in behalf of the persons implicated. To the noble lord, for his abundant personal civility, and still more for the very liberal credit he seems disposed to give to my motives, I have to return my thanks; but if justice requires me to pay this tribute to the liberality and ingenuousness of the noble lord, it exacts from me a very marked distinction between the embarrassing kindness of the noble lord and the frank hostility of the right hon. gent. (Mr. Yorke). I certainly cannot charge him with too much liberality in construing my motives; but I crave nothing considerate or favourable of the right hon. gentleman. He may continue to think of me as he pleases, while I shall endeavour to console myself under the consciousness of honest intentions.8786858483Mr. Whitbread
82 rose to reply. He said that as the House was on the point of dividing, he presumed that there was no gentleman present who intended to offer himself. If there was, he now called upon him to rise, and he should most cheerfully give way; if there was not, he should proceed to reply to the little which had been said, premising at the same time that it would not be fair towards him in any gentleman who intended speaking, not to speak now, but wait till he had concluded. He had waited a considerable time in deference to the feeling of two individuals more nearly connected with one of the noble lords (Sidmouth), and he had waited
82Mr. Whitbread
92l919089l88rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the case of corporal Curtis, of the Oxfordshire militia. Before he entered into the merits of the case of this poor man, he wished to slate, that he had never seen him, nor had any communication whatever with him. The officers composing the general court-martial were wholly unknown to him, with the exception of the president, whom he knew merely by name. At the same time, he must do justice to the character of the colonel of the Oxfordshire militia (colonel Gore Langton.) No man stood higher, both in a public and private point of view. He was therefore bound to state, when he mentioned the name of the hon. member as implicated in the complaint, that he must have been grossly deceived with respect to the conduct of corporal Curtis. This poor man was ill in the Isle of Wight, and wishing to see him upon the subject of his complaint, he (Mr. Wardle) had gone down to Portsmouth, but the wind blew so hard that he could not cross over to the Island. Being obliged to return to town the next day, he left a friend there whom he desired to wait upon general Taylor, and inform him, that he came at the desire of Mr. Wardle to speak to Robert Curtis. He saw the general, who peremptorily refused to let him have access to Curtis, unless he had brought with him the authority of the Commander in Chief; and the general added, that if even he (Mr. Wardle), had requested to see him, he should have given him a refusal. In this state of things he had applied to the Commander in Chief, and se-
92l919089l88—Mr. Wardle
101100 observed, that if the hon. and learned gent. would be advocate, judge, and witnesss in the same cause, as the hon. and learned gentleman, who had just spoken, appeared to be, it could not be surprising that he should carry every thing before him by the force of his own assertion. This, without meaning any disrespect to that hon. and learned gentleman, seemed to him to be precisely his situation. To the facts stated by the hon. gentleman who brought forward this motion, which were represented as founded only in assertion, the hon. and learned gentleman had replied only by assertions. So that in this respect, both that hon. and learned gentleman and the hon. member who made the motion, were placed exactly on the same ground, with this exception, that the latter undertook to prove and, make good all his assertions. It had been said, indeed, that what had been stated by the hon. mover, was not founded in fact; but how could that be known, unless he was to be at liberty to prove the correctness of his statements? By the reasoning of the hon. and learned gentleman, all was to be taken for granted which was asserted on his part, whilst every thing was to be questioned which was advanced by the other hon. member. With respect to the hon. colonel who had been adverted to (colonel G. Langton), he would be the last man whom he should suspect of being guilty of the oppression, or of the other
101100Sir Francis Burdett
 knew both the unfortunate man and his father, they being both his constituents. The impassion upon the mind of this man's family was not that he had been treated with severity. He had received a letter from the father of the man, begging him to apply, not for a revision of his sentence, but for mercy. He had written upon the subject to the dukes of Kent and Cumberland, and made application to the magistrates, who humanely exerted themselves to obtain the execution of justice in mercy. The father of this man knew nothing of the motion of the hon. gent. The speech of the hon. gent. was deserving of the severest criticism. If popularity was the object of the hon. member, he would recommend to him to court it by other means, by means which, as lord Mansfield well observed, would make popularity follow him, instead of his pursuing popularity.Mr. Lockhart
104, after the extremely able manner in which his hon. and learned friend near him had acquitted himself, in the clear and explicit statement which he had made to the House, should not think it necessary to obtrude himself long upon their attention. There was only one part of the subject in which his hon. and learned friend had been deficient. His hon. and learned friend had failed in doing that full justice which was due to the conduct of sir David Dundas, and to the manner in which the hon. gent. abstained from any notice of that conduct. It was impossible for him to suppose that the hon. gent. sought out this subject for the purpose of making mischievous and inflammatory harangues. In justice to that hon. gentleman, he was bound to suppose, that having received information of facts which he conceived were founded in injustice, he was desirous of obtaining redress for the oppressed individual. Now, the House of Commons had explicitly declared by its usage, that all such questions of. a military nature should not be discussed within its walls, unless justice were departed from elsewhere. Under the impression pf this sentiment, he would trespass on the patience of the House, while he apprised them of the opportunities which the hon. gent. had enjoyed from the commander
104The Chancellor of the Exchequer
105 of the Exchequer here read the correspondence which passed between Mr. Wardle and sir D. Dundas, of which the following are. extracts. The hon. gent. began the correspondence with a letter, staling, "That having received information of some extraordinary circumstances attending the trial of corporal Curtis, he had made an ineffectual attempt to go to the We of Wight to see him; that he confidently hoped the man would not be sent out of the country, and out of the protection of the laws, before he had an opportunity of investigating his case." To this the commander in chief replied by his secretary, 'That he was not an are of any irregularity in the trial of Curtis, but that he desired the hon. gent. to put him in possession of these circumstances, that he might take the steps which that in-formation might render necessary." The hon. gent. answered. "That this was any thing but a reply to his letter, and he begged to know whether it was meant to refuse or comply with his request." Not at a Tirritated by he tone of the hon. gent. sir David Dundas instructed his secretary to inform him, "That the commander in chief was always anxious to receive information which might operate favourably for persons placed in the unfortunate situation of corporal Curtis; but that he should not consider himself justified in granting the suspension required by the hon. gent. unless me. grounds of that application were distinctly specified." This produced another letter from the hon. gent, in which he expresses an opinion which, if it were to become general, would convert the most free country of the universe to one of the most intolerable tyranny. This opinion was contained in the paragraph, "That it was hardly necessary for the hon. gent. to remind the commander in chief that he was not to be considered in the light of a common individual, but as a member of that body, by virtue of whose vote soldiers were raised and paid, and whose duty therefore it was to watch over their interest." If the hon. gent. had a right, as a member of that House, to erect himself into a walking committee and to
105The Chancellor
 spoke briefly in explanation. He did not doubt the veracity of the noble lord opposite. He believed that he had given orders for admitting the counsel to the prisoner, but still the fact was as he had stated it to be, and he must observe there was a vast difference between giving orders and seeing those orders executedMr. Wandle
103102, as the hon. member had charged him, as general of the district, with a breach of the articles of war, felt it necessary to trouble the House with a very few words. There was one part, and only one part of the statement of that hon. gent. in which he concurred, namely, that in which he bestowed praise on the hon. colonel of the Oxfordshire regiment. It did not, perhaps, become him to say what he felt on that occasion relative to that hon. officer, but he must remark, that the hon. gent. could not say too much of him, as he was as zealous, correct, attentive, and humane an officer as any in the service. This opinion he had expressed in the general orders as strongly as he could, both with respect to the colonel and lieut.-colonel of that regiment. The hon. gent. had accused him of not having listened to the appeal of corporal Curtis: he certainly had not listened to that appeal, because that person had not a right to make it. The article of war (which the noble lord here read) took away the appeal from a person found guilty of a military offence by a regimental court-martial. The general court-martial was for the trial of heinous offences, the regimental for petty offences. When the person, whose case was referred to was charged with a heinous offence, he appointed a general court-martial, but at the same time took care that no officer who had served on the regimental court-martial,
103102Lord Charles Somerset
93, conscious of the necessity of a strict observance of military duty in an officer who, like himself, had the honour to command a regiment, assured the House that he was ready to meet any inquiry that might be instituted on this subject. He was firmly persuaded that had not corporal Robert Curtis been tried and punished by a general court martial, many unfortunate men of the Oxfordshire militia would have been led to commit acts of the most serious insubordination. Gracious God! at such a crisis as the present, when the blessings which we enjoy, when our very existence as a nation, depended so materially on the attachment of our soldiers to their officers, was this the precise time for bringing forward a motion of a nature, he believed on his soul, inevitably tending to sap the foundation of the discipline of the army! He repeated, that he was ready to meet any charge that could be brought forward on the subject, convinced, as he was, that the more the transaction was inquired into, the more apparent would be the rectitude and good conduct of the Oxfordshire regiment. He read a deposition of the soldiers on guard, distinctly denying that they had been bribed, or even desired by their officers to notice Curtis's conduct, with a view to criminate him; as also an acknowledgment by Curtis himself of his many offences, and of his wish to be allowed to enter the regular courses. He had been thirty-two years in the Oxfordshire regiment, and he could safely lay his hand on his heart and say, that he never refused attention to the just complaints of a soldier. He had given corporel Curtis every satisfaction in his power. When Curtis made the representation to him respecting the shoes, he (colonel L.) shewed him the regulation, which was as clear as day; namely, that three pair should be allowed in two years, and not two pair a year. It was true, as asserted by the hon. gent, that when the book was shewn to corporal Curtis, that he might point out the particular regulation to which he referred, he could not do so; but it was for this plain reason, that no such regulation existed; and with respect to the article of breeches, it was a fact, that at the very time when the man made
93Colonel Gore Langton
999897969594d (Judge Advocate) was of opinion, that unless the hon. gent. had made out a sufficient case, the House ought not to agree to the motion. There were some passages in the hon. gentleman's speech, in which the facts were so completely mistated, that he should be sorry to allow the question to go to a vote without commenting upon them, notwithstanding the strong impression which had evidently been made upon the House, by the observations of his hon. friend who had just sat down. He would therefore state shortly to the House the occurrences connected with the two courts-martial, which the hon. gent, was anxious to bring into discussion. The transaction originated on the 23d of June, when Curtis made to his Colonel a complaint respecting two distinct articles—shoes and breeches. As to the case of shoes, he was persuaded that the hon. mover had not made any inquiry into the subject, or else that he would have received better information. It was clear, as his hon. friend had said, that by the regulations each soldier was entitled to three pair of shoes in two years; and as to the case of 1804, referred to by Curtis, in which year the regiment did certainly receive two pair of shoes a man; this was owing to the transfer of the Supplementary Militia into the Regular Militia; the men being entitled to one pair as the supplementary, and to one pair as the regular. It being found, however, that one pair was sufficient, a commutation took place, and each man was allowed five shillings, which went to pay for those necessaries which would otherwise have been provided for by stoppages. The case of the breeches was as clear. One pair was provided by government; and the stoppage of 18999897969594dMr. Manners Sutton
 ascribed the inconvenience sustained to two causes: first, to the great accumulation of business; and, secondly, to the delay in bringing forward the ordinary official business till the session was far advanced.Mr. Wynn
 conceived either of the modes proposed would attain the necessary object, but said, if a division was pressed, he would vote for the Resolution.Mr. Bankes
 objected to the Resolution, and considered that the duration of the session had been of late years too much limited.Lord Folkestone
 presented two petitions, one from a number of proprietors of bleach-greens in the north of Ireland, praying relief, and stating that their property had been exposed to a variety of depredations, and that the severity of the law making all such depredations, in every instance, a capital offence, they were deprived of the means of effectually preventing them. The second, from certain master calico printers in this country, making similar representations, and advising a repeal of the laws, enacting, that such offences should be considered felonies. Sir S. Romilly observed, that the first petition was signed by above 150 persons, all of the highest respectability, and that it comprehended the wishes of the greater part of that description of proprietors in the north of Ireland. There were now before the House, in support and illustration of those arguments which he had on former occasions pressed on their attention, with the view of altering and ameliorating the harsher enactments of our criminal code, not opinions drawn from speculative and theoretical reasonings, but the explicit declarations of experienced men, pointing out the inefficacy of laws made expressly for their protection. His second petition was not signed by so large a number of persons, but he could state that the signatures attached to it were those of a great majority of that class by whom it purported to be made. Having thus the direct evidence of such important witnesses, whom it was impossible to believe had been deceived by loose and visionary purposes, he gave notice that on Monday next he would move for the repeal of an Act of the 18 Geo. II. and an Act of 3 Geo. III. rendering stealing on bleaching grounds to the value of five shillings in one country, and of ten shillings in the other, felony without benefit of clergy.—The petitions were ordered to the on the table.Sir Samuel Romilly
107 rose, pursuant to notice, to propose a Resolution that might have the effect of counteracting the inconvenience to
107The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the object of the House would be better accomplished by a general understanding among themselves. The existing rules of practice had been adopted after long experience; and they should not be hastily altered without full and urgent proof of the superiority of the plan proposed to be substituted. He was strongly of opinion, that the Resolution would have the effect of infringing one of those points of privilege, peculiarly important to the duties of every member, and to the interests of the country.Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, that the ancient orders of the House were all intended for the furtherance of public business. He believed that on some former occasion the House had adopted a rule in which the principle of the Resolution was recognised, that of refusing to receive motions after a certain hour.Mr. Yorke
108 declared his dissent from both of the modes proposed. The portion of the week chimed by the minister was
108Mr. Whitbread
 rose to put a question to the right hon. gent. respecting our relations with the United States. They had been given to understand in the Regent's Speech, atMr. Whit-bread
 said, it was true that the American minister had that day had his audience of leave, but that the negociations were finally broken off, he had yet to learn of the hon. gent. Though the American minister was about to leave this country, he was not quitting it under such circumstances as the hon. gent. supposed. He would leave behind him a charge d'affaires to carry on a diplomatic correspondence, and so far from the negociations between the two countries being interrupted, a gentleman had just been appointed envoy extraordinary to. America. There was nothing in the manner in which the American minister, now about leaving this country, took his departure, that could give reason to any one to suppose such an interruption had occurred. Under these circumstances, he saw no reason for advising the Prince Regent to cause any papers on the subject to be laid before the House, which would not otherwise be produced.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
115d.sd.s of Dublin, rose to second the address, and in doing so, begged leave to assure the House, that no case could possibly come before them which had stronger claims on their attention and their justice. They would recollect, that from the month of June, 1808, to the month of March, 1810, the distillation from grain had been prohibited; the natural consequence of this was, that at the end of that period, there remained upon hand a very considerable stock of spirits distilled from sugar. The allowance of the distillation from grain must have sensibly affected the value of this stock bad that allowance been duly foreseen, but it took place contrary to all fair expectation; its operations on the price of the sugar spirits were, of course, not only strong, but sudden; and not only was the allowance granted, but the duty was reduced from 5115d.sd.sMr. Shaw,
dsd.sd.s opposed the motion. No man could say mat the reduction of the duty upon spirits imposed any hardship upon any of the distillers. As it was done by act of parliament, it afforded them a fair notice of what was intended to be done. The stock of spirits was taken upon the same day the prohibition was enforced, and there were found to be 115,000 gallons; and only 50,000 gallons were distilled under the higher duties. There was not then enough of spirits to answer the market in Ireland, so that the distillers found greater benefit in supplying it, instead of exporting their spirits. There were not spirits equal to two days distillation in the whole of that country; so that these distillers had a sale for their spirits which amply indemnified them for the duties they paid. The duty was altered from 5dsd.sd.sMr. Foster
 said, that in his opinion there was no ground for compensation whatever; for, in the first place, the distillers had proved no loss. These distillers had enjoyed a monopoly; and it did not appear that they had not sold every gallon of their spirits as high as ever they could have done, had there been no alteration of the duty.Colonel Barry
 had no doubt, that if the House agreed to the motion, they would be able to decide what was the amount of the loss these distillers had sustained. In 1783, when the duties upon French wines were equalized, the holders of these wines had a drawback granted to them, and such ought to be their conduct in the present instance. He did think the matter ought to be investigated by the House, as many failures, he understood, had taken place in consequence of the losses they had sustained.Mr. Hutchinson
117 approved highly of what had fallen from the Chair.
117The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then moved, that the Bill be committed, and said, that he would not trouble the House with any observations in the present stage, as he was sure that a measure which met the approbation of so large a body of merchants would at least be permitted to go into a committee.Mr. Baring
 opposed the Bill, the object of which, he said, was, if not to destroy the charter, to take away one of the greatest advantages arising from the incorporation of those companies.The Attorney General
 contended that his Majesty's power applied only to the total repeal of the charter; but not to any particular modification, such as was now proposed. He was of opinion that the Bill should go into a committee.Sir John Anslrutlter
llde jure.de factode facto;dc jure said that this Bill must be considered with regard to its ultimate object, which was, the establishment of a great combination, to do away every other mode of insurance. At present, there was a monopoly llde jure.de factode facto;dc jureMr. Marryatt
119 controverted the opinion of Sir T. Turton on the, subject of the charters, and contended that the road to redress was open to these petitioners in the mode pointed out by the act, and consequently that their application to parliament was improper. On petitioning the King, the matter would go through the Privy Council to the Attorney General, who would hear it as a cause; and, on his report, the decision of the executive would be given. If the charters of the existing companies were found to be objectionable, by this mode they would be rescinded, and all the petitioners required by the present Bill would be accomplished. Yet, though this road had been pointed out to them last session, they had preferred coming again to parliament, where their claims, from the nature of a popular assembly, were not likely to be so accurately discussed. He condemned the original motives of the petitioners, and
119The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then put it to the right hon. gent. whether he would not wish, under these circumstances, to withdraw his motion.The Speaker
 repeated his objection to the mode of proceeding, as contrary to the established rule that had existed for a century. The identical case had already been submitted to the House in the form of a petition, and rejected on account of its not being regularly recommended on the part of the government, and it would be rendering their rule of no avail to receive it in any other form.The Speaker
 called the attention of the House to the subject matter of the proposition about to be submitted to them. There was a standing order of the House, that no petitions for money should be received, unless recommended by the crown. This was a motion co obtain compensation. Without the form of a petition, the same effect was intended to be produced.The Speaker
 accordingly consented, and the motion was withdrawn.Mr. Grattan
 inMr. Grattan,
 said, that after the frequent discussions upon this subject, and after what had fallen from the counsel, he should not enter much into it at present; but he only rose to observe, that the most proper mode would be to refer the subject to his Majesty's privy council, for the discussion of it in the House was an irregular interference with the prerogative of the crown. He should therefore oppose the motion for going into a committee.Mr. Grenfell
 was glad to hear an answer so contradictory of what he had understood to be the case, but confessed, at the same time, that it was not sufficiently satisfactory to his mind, and that he must, therefore, reserve to himself the right of giving notice on some early day, of a motion for the necessary papers on this subject.Mr. Whitbread
 thought that the right hon. gent. had mistaken the state of the question, and that no part of his observations applied to it. A grievance had been proved to exist, and the object was to apply a remedy. The Bill did not propose to dissolve any charter, but merely to say, that the system of solitary insurances should no longer be the law. The grievance complained of was, the insecurity of insurances; and the measure submitted, was the doing away of that clause in the acts which prevented others from joining in companies. Therefore he thought that the argument of the right hon. gent. did not apply.Mr. Adam
116 thought that it was but
116Sir J. Newport
 was of the same opinion as formerly, for if such was the form of the House, it must sanction great injustice. He did not think that this present mode was by any means disrespectful. What he complained of was, that ministers had it in their power to withhold their consent, or to make it an act of favour. He should not however persevere in stating his opinion contrary to the sentiments of the House.Sir j. Newport
 denied that the Bill was a mere speculation. The real question before the House was, whether the increase of trade since the institution of the corporations or companies said to be injured by the Bill, might not require a different system? The measure should have his support, as he believed its operation would be to throw open insurance at the lowest rate.Sir T. Turton
 brought up the following report from the Secret Committee relative to the detention of M. Colville in the House of Correction, Cold Bath Fields:Mr. Dundas
 said, he thought it his duty to declare, that the report was unanimously agreed to by the committee.Lord Folkestone
124 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the state of Commercial Credit. Various representations had reached him from manufacturing and mercantile people, of the disadvantage under which trade suffered, and which they attributed to the state of credit and the condition of the markets with which they were formerly in the habit of communicating. At first he did not believe that the evil prevailed to such an extent as had been stated, but so various were the representations that he now thought it his duty to submit the present motion to the
124The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the committee for which he moved, was for the purpose of inquiring into the state of Commercial Credit, not of Public Credit, beyond that it was not his idea that it should go. The committee, he was sure, would not think it advisable to protract their report to any great length, but it would naturally inquire into the causes for the purpose of ascertaining the remedy; and if it found that the evil sprung from public causes, would of course recommend a public remedy. Should that view, however, be taken of the subject, there would be more propriety, he thought, in bringing it before the committee than the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to support the motion of the hon. gent. He agreed with the gent, who last spoke, that the present circumstances differed in some cases from those of 1793, and resembled them in others. He thought, however, that should the distresses of the present day be even traced to overtrading, yet if the result of that over-trading had been such as not only to occasion mischief to those who had over-traded, but to those who have not over-traded, the House could have no objection to afford an alleviation, if possible. He had no hesitation in saying, that whatever opinion might be formed of the policy of the Orders in Council, these, on inquiry, would not be found to be the cause of the present commercial distress.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 should certainly think the committee were going beyond their duty, were they to enter upon so large a field of investigation as the right hon. gent, would force upon them. To what extent the House might think fit to go into the ultimate and proximate causes of the subject, was another consideration but it was the Committee's duty to inquire into the nature of the present distress. The House would consider the degree and extent of the distress, and whether it Was advisable to afford a remedy.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that from the narrow description of the investigation proposed, he apprehended the qualities for which his hon. friend had been stated to be particularly distinguished, were not necessary, especially if it was intended that the report should be speedily laid on the table. The qualities alluded to would only have been of essential advantage, if the committee were about to inquire not only into the immediate but into the remote causes of the present state of commercial credit. He therefore thought it would be better to leave the names as originally moved.Mr. Canning
 thought upon the whole, that it would be better to defer the consideration of the more extended subject, until the narrower was decided, and the report of the committee brought up.Mr. Baring
 thought the words, as they originally stood, expressed the meaning sufficiently, and of course that the amendment was unnecessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that he had taken the principal merchants from both sides of the House—persons best acquainted with the subject, and at the same time not likely to be so much affected as less eminent traders, by the present depressed state of commerce. He had no objection, however, to some more names, though it was desirable that the committee should not be too numerous.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that every commercial man who had expressed a doubt as to the expediency of giving relief, had been named for the committee.Mr. A. Baring
127 expressed his surprise that the right hon. gent, should have spoken as if he had fallen into some impropriety in naming the hon. gent, near him as a member of this committee, and an impropriety which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had avoided. This was extraordinary, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had immediately assented the moment the hon. gent, had been named; He had never doubled but the hon. gent.
127Mr. Horner
125 thought the chancellor of the exchequer had taken a more correct view of the subject than his right hon. friend. It was better, in his opinion, to confine the inquiry at present to the nature
125Mr. Horner
 proposed that Mr. D. Giddy be added to the committee, but nobody seconded the motion.—The committee was therefore appointed as originally constituted, with the usual powers.Mr. G. Johnstone
 then moved another amendment, that the word 'thereupon' should be left out, for the purpose of introducing the words 'the causes that produced the same.'Mr. Tierney
—No into the causes of the present state of commercial credit.Mr. Tierney
126 said, that it was not sufficient to induce the House to vote an issue of exchequer bills, to state that numbers of merchants had over-traded themselves. Upon such a report being presented to the House he should not think himself justified in giving his vote. He did not mean to say that under certain circumstances of distress, he might not be willing enough to give assistance; but those circumstances he thought should differ materially from the present. He owned
126Mr. Tierney
 moved as an amendment, That after the word 'credit', the words and trade of the united kingdom' be inserted.Mr. Tierney
 said, he hoped that the committee would be permitted to go at large into the subject, in order to trace the cause of the evil.Mr. Tierney
 preferred the original words. He did not wish that the great political question should be submitted to the committee.Mr. H. Thornton
128 took it for granted that the object was to inquire into the stale of trade only so far as this was connected with the means of giving relief. To answer this purpose, the original motion was sufficiently well expressed. The amendment proposed would lead into too large a field.128Mr. H. Thornton
 hailed the present measure as a step towards the exposure of the bad system upon which the government had acted. He alluded to the new relations with America, and disapproved of the policy of encouraging manufactures to the injury of the agriculture of the country.Mr. Curwen
129 stated, that in his opinion there were too many commercial men proposed, 13 out of the 21 being of that description, and thereby constituting a majority of the whole. The remaining names, too, were chiefly those connected with the right hon. gent, in office. The right hon. gent, seemed to hold out, that he had at first rather turned a deaf ear to the representations on this subject, and whether he was a convert to the opinions contained in these representations, or had brought forward the subject on account of the number of applications, and the respectability of the quarters from whence they came, he had not mentioned. But if the commerce of the country was in an embarrassed state, and it was clear that it was, this committee was improperly constituted. That there ought to be some Commercial men, was certain; but that they must have a strong bias to recommend the granting of relief, even though it might be doubtful to others whether such a measure would be proper, he thought self-evident, and therefore they ought not to constitute a majority. He was surprised that the name of Mr. Huskisson had not been originally proposed, and surprised that there should be any objection on his part when he was last mentioned. He hyped some other names would be proposed. The commercial majority was objectionable in the first place, and almost the whole of the vest would be under a vote for any
129Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the right hon. gent, had surely fallen into some mistake. Was it meant that there should be an inquiry into the causes that produced commercial credit?Mr. Perceval
—Even in that sense it was too large, and would carry the duties of, the committee much beyond what any, one appeared to have in view.Mr. Perceval
 wished to decline the honour of being a member of the committee. He stated the points in which he thought the present distresses resembled, and in which they did not resemble those of 1793. At present there was no interruption to public credit; in 1793 it was otherwise; and at present there was a great spirit of over-trading in the country. He disclaimed having any particular opportunities of information on this subject.Mr. Huskisson
 said, the Committee should not be permitted to go into the political question, as it would only have the effect of rendering the real question referred to them, ambiguous.Mr. Wilberforce
 concurred with the last speaker, that the words of the amendment were too large—and that the inquiry ought to be confined to the state of trade, so far as this was connected with the mean" of relief.Mr. Wilberforce
 objected to the constitution of the committee, on the same grounds as Mr. Whitbread.Sir J. Newport
 disclaimed any other objection to a majority of commercial men than this, that they would be, from the nature of the case, acting under an undue bias.Sir J. Newport
176 said, he had not been misunderstood in the main part of his statement, although the hon. gent, had certainly mistaken what he had said on
176The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 defended the statements of his hon. friend, which he said were drawn from the exposition of the directors themselves. From this it was clear that after deducting seven millions due to the proprietors of capital stock, yet more than seven millions were deficient, though the hon. chairman had roundly contradicted the fact, while he admitted his ignorance of the law. The act of parliament clearly laid down that the dividends should be paid out of the net proceeds of the company, and as this had not been complied with, he felt himself called on to support the motion of his hon. friend.Lord Folkestone
 said, that the hon. gent. had entirely mistaken the scope and meaning of the law and acts of parliament, and drawn wrong inferences from them. It should be recollected that the whole territorial property of the company, together with the assets and other property, were to be set off against these seven millions—not to speak of the prospective resources of the company, which, instead of going on from bad to worse, as stated by the hon. gent. were much better than they had been. He did not feel it necessary at present to go far into the question, but he had to complain of the exaggerated statements which had been made, without any vouchers or papers to support them.Mr. Grant
 seconded the motion.Sir Arthur Pigott
 said, he could not at present approve of this bill, and although he would not oppose the motion, should take a future opportunity of stating his sentiments. He protested against the argument that the act of 1732, held out a pledge by parliament to persons in the diplomatic service, that could not with justice be altered. If such a principle were to be carried into all the branches of the public service, it would be opposing all beneficial regulations.Mr. Abercromby
 thought it would not be proper to provide pensions for those who under took the diplomatic department, merely for a year or two, but it would be desirable to provide public remuneration for those who devoted themselves entirely to that line, and therefore a specific time should be mentioned.Mr. Wilberfarce
 was of opinion that the bill brought in last session was extremely proper, as it guarded the public rights, and ought not to be altered.Mr. Bankes
187, in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for a committee to inquire into the expediency of the erection of Penitentiary Houses. He assured an hon. and learned gent. opposite (sir S. Romilly), who first brought the subject before the House, that much as he differed with him
187Mr. Secretary Ryder
 would not oppose the motion, though he was still of opinion, that on a subject clear almost to demonstration, an address to the crown at once would be the preferable proceeding. As a committee was to be appointed, however, he thought the objects of their inquiry should be more extensive. He would have then investigate the comparative advantages of confinement in penitentiary houses with imprisonment in the hulks, and transportation to New South Wales. It might turn out, that the first of those punishments might frequently be substituted, with benefit both to the culprit and the public, for the two last; and more particularly for the last, the effects of which were, he believed, frequently the reverse of those which it was intended to produce, and the expence of which was enormous when compared with the expence of erecting penitentiary houses. He proposed as an amendment to insert the words—" And that the committee inquire into the effects that have been produced by the punishments of transportation to New South Wales, and of imprisonment on board the hulks, and report their opinion and observations thereon to the House."Sir S. Romilly
188 had no objection to the amendment of his hon. and learned friend. Adverting to the subject of the
188Mr. Secretary Ryder
195194193lllllllllll192lllllllllll191llllllllllllllll190llll189ll rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move the resolutions respecting the Army Estimates. So perfectly aware was he of the difficulty of drawing the attention of the House to the dry and complicated details on this subject, that it was his intention to limit his observations as much as possible. It was necessary, however, for him in the first place to point out to the committee, a circumstance, which any gentleman must have observed who had looked into the estimates, viz. that though the estimates were framed in the same manner and upon the same principle as the estimates of last year, yet there were various alterations, which had been adopted with a view to render more intelligible the complicated details into which the estimates unavoidably extended. The particular expenditure of Ireland was contained in a separate column, and many articles of charge were placed under distinct heads, which were usually included in the army extraordinaries or cast into an aggregate mass. He would now proceed to go through the various estimates in succession. The first was that which related to his Majesty's land forces; in which the committee would perceive an increase of four hundred and seventy two men, and a decrease in the charge of 18,400195194193lllllllllll192lllllllllll191llllllllllllllll190llll189llLord Palmerstone
 adverting to the speech of the hon. general (Tarleton), said that it was certainly competent for any member upon the army estimates, to pursue such topics of military discussion as he thought fit, but as the observations with which he (lord Castlereagh) was desirous of troubling the committee, grew out of the details which the secretary at war had that night opened in his speech, and as the honourable general had himself stated, that a more regular occasion would hereafter occur for reviewing the affairs of the peninsula, and the events of the last campaign, he hoped it would not be considered that it either arose from disrespect to the honourable general's arguments, or from acquiescence in his sentiments, if he postponed, till that occasion should arise, to enter upon a field of discussion too interesting in its nature to be lightly passed over, and too extensive to be mixed with the detailed considerations of the army, more immediately the object of that night's debate.Lord Castlereagh,
214 said, he should not feel it necessary to trouble the committee at any length upon the financial part of the estimates—the outline of the intended services had been explained with great clearness by the noble lord (Palmerstone), and the votes proposed seemed to be regulated with all due attention to economy, consistent with the efficiency of the army upon its present high scale, in point of numbers.214Lord Castlereagh
221220219218217216215 then proceeded to notice the concluding part of the secretary at war's speech, which related to the recruiting of the army. It was that branch of the subject on which he had come down, desirous of calling for that information which the noble lord had so fully imparted to the House. To those conversant with army details, it must have been obvious, without reference to returns, that carrying on operations abroad on the scale we now did, the waste of the army, even from the common casualties incident to troops in the field, must very considerably exceed the resources of ordinary recruiting. In looking to what it might be necessary to do, he was ready to acquiesce in the principle laid down by the noble lord, that adverting to the magnitude of the force which the country now happily possessed, the object to be aimed at was rather to keep
221220219218217216215Lord Castlereagh
222, of Kerry, warmly supported the proposition for an interchange
222Mr. Herbert
 said, they had on a former occasion volunteered their services to Jersey and Guernsey.Lord Castlereagh
224223 hoped,
224223The Chancellor of the Exchequer
231"Oh let it not be said.""And brave him there?"What! shall they seek the lion in his den,230229228227226225 rose and said, Sir, had not I conceived it to be generally felt and understood on all sides of the House, that this was not the fit opportunity for going into the discussion of the character and merits of the late campaign, I should have offered myself to the attention of the House at a much earlier hour. But, although what I still conceive to be the prevalent understanding on this subject, will operate to prevent me from going into any detail upon it, at the present moment, yet after what has fallen from the hon. general opposite (general Tarleton) in his last speech respecting the state of the war in the peninsula, I should consider it an abandonment of my duty, and should reproach myself for having acted an unworthy part, if I were to omit to state shortly the opinions which I entertain upon that most interesting and important question. The share which I personally had in originating those measures which have committed this country in the peninsula against France, renders it necessary for me, as well in vindication of my own conduct, as in justice to the principles by which the present ministers have proved themselves to be still actuated in the maintenance of the contest, to express my unaltered approbation of the system which they have continued to pursue. When
231"Oh let it not be said.""And brave him there?"What! shall they seek the lion in his den,230229228227226225Mr. Canning
 returned the right horn gent. thanks for the eloquence which he had displayed on this occasion, though he could by no means concur in the views he had taken upon the subject of the campaign in Portugal. From the zeal manifested by the right hon. gent. to aid the cause of the peninsula, he supposed that right hon. gent. would be much better pleased if the whole disposable force, and all the generals of the British army, were to be employed in the peninsula.General Tarlcton
 wished to correct the hon. general. He did not desire that all our generals should be abroad. So long as lord Wellington was employed in the peninsula he could be well contented that some gallant generals should remain at home, to criticise the operations of the campaign, and to protect us from invasion.Mr. Canning
 replied, that proper notice would be given.Mr. R. Dundas
184 observed, that he did not think the statements of his hon. friend had been at all invalidated by the observations of the hon. directors, who had merely contradicted the law and the fact, without entering into an explanation of either. He thought that it would be right that the right hon. gent. who presided at the Board of Control, should satisfy
184Lord A. Hamilton
 thought the inconvenience of transporting the militia from England to Ireland could not be greater, in most instances, than in sending them from England to Scotland.Mr. Stuart
"The laws of council bid my tougue be bold."213212211210209208207206205204203202201200199198197196 rose and spoke as follows: Mr. Lushington, I return my thanks to the noble lord, for the clear manner in which he has stated the Estimates of the current year; but, although they contain circumstances of great moment, I shall call the immediate attention of the committee to a subject, growing out of this branch of the public service, which I consider to be deserving of paramount and prior consideration. I allude, Sir, to the war now carried on by Great Britain, on a very extended scale, within the boundaries of the continent of Europe. On this occasion I do not arrogate to myself a superior degree of patriotism, or of military knowledge, but I discharge a conscientious duty to my country; and, in the discharge of that duty, I will employ as much perspicuity and brevity as I can command.—It is my intention to attribute to his Majesty's ministers full credit for patriotic designs, and virtuous motives. That they conceive a war upon the continent will lessen the military power of Buonaparté; will protect our allies, the Spaniards and the Portuguese; and will delay, or ultimately defeat, the invasion of the British isles. On the contrary, I contend that such opinions, with our limited population, speaking comparatively of it with the population of Europe, will offer up as unnecessary victims, the best soldiers of Britain; will not avail ultimately, in the defence of our allies, as the integrity of British resources can alone give us present security, and, in a more remote degree, afford a point and beacon of rally and redemption to the prostrate nations of Europe: and that the expenditure of our brave men, and our military resources upon the continent, will co-operate with the ambitious designs of Buonaparté, and open a passage at an earlier period, and with more facility, to our mortal and inveterate enemy—Experience and common sense equally confirm the soundness and validity of these opinions. If any nation undertakes a line of military operation beyond its means, or comparatively so with those of the enemy, the result must naturally produce a melancholy termination. On the present occasion, I contend that our means are physically inadequate to the object in view, that the plan and system are founded in error and mistake,
"The laws of council bid my tougue be bold."213212211210209208207206205204203202201200199198197196General Tarleton
 observed, that the right hon. gent. had spoken as if he had attacked the conduct of lord Wellington. He reminded the right hon. gent. that he had disclaimed any such intention; but speaking of the events of the campaign, it was as impossible to avoid mentioning the commander in chief, as it would be to perform the tragedy of Hamlet, omitting the character of prince Hamlet, or to represent Cato, leaving out the most important character, Cato himfelf.General Tarleton
181l180lll179l178 presented a Petition from the Printers, Booksellers, and Publishers, of the united kingdom, setting forth,181l180lll179l178Mr. Henry Martin
 said shortly, that the distresses of the company arose out of their extravagance, in speculations of trade, and their wasteful mode of raising money. He then proceeded to detail some of the modes adopted for the circulation of the company's bills in India, and ended by saying, that the directors would have to provide for twelve millions of bills in the course of the present year.Sir H. Montgomery
 said, that the territorial expences of the company naturally absorbed a portion of their commercial profits; but under all the disadvantages of late years, the company were bound to pay their dividend, and by so doing benefit the public service at the same time.Mr. H. Smith
 thought that this was a matter which ought to be left to the government of the country, so that they might remunerate persons according to their deserts.Mr. Fuller
186, pursuant to notice, rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to explain and amend so much of the act of last session as related to the granting of pensions to ministers who might have served his majesty at foreign courts. The grounds upon which he brought forward his motion were few and simple. It must be obvious, that diplomatic appointments, though the situations were high and honourable, were not sought after by persons to whom the revenue of office was indifferent. There might have been some exceptions, but in general such offices were courted as likely to afford an honourable provision. The revenue enjoyed during service afforded no fund for future provision, and when it was considered that persons holding diplomatic appointments uniformly detached themselves from their connections, and abandoned all views from the prosecution of professions, it must be obvious that they were entitled to some provision after the cessation of their services, or in the interval of non-employments. As it was necessary to hold out encouragement to persons of a liberal education and accomplishments to undertake
186Mr. Leach
 would not set about following the gentlemen who had already spoken on the other side of the House, as their information was so defective and their suppositions so extravagant. The hon. mover had told the company that they were beggars—all beggars—fifteen millions worse than nothing. How extravagant! That hon. gent. would perhaps have no objection to some of their stock, or a few of their India bonds, beggars as they were; or, whatever his contempt for them might be, he would not dislike a few of their acres of territory.Mr. R. Thornton
 conceived it to be a most unjust and unequal burthen imposed on the counties of England, that they should thus, from year to year, be obliged to find men to supply the deficiences in the army. There were some details in the statement, too, to which he objected, though he should find other opportunities of stating his objections. Three different members of the medical board, he observed, were to be allowed to retire on salaries, who had differed greatly from each other. It was impossible they could all be right. Some of them must have been deficient in their duty, yet all were to be rewarded for their merits; and what was still more strange, the merit of each was to be equally remunerated, without its being shewn in what respect they were entitled to remuneration. As to the reciprocity of service between the English and Irish militia, he should be glad to see the grand obstacle to this measure removed. This could only be done by adopting a step, the proposing of which had occasioned the overthrow of lord Ho-wick's administration; but he was happy to perceive that the idea was now so much hailed by the other side of the House The Irish militia could never consent to venture over into this country, while they would be subject to such pains and penalties, which did not attach to them in Ireland.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that when the interchange of the militias of the two countries took place, he would call the attention of the House to the state in which the Catholic soldiers would be placed. The noble lord said, the laws against them were a dead letter, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had cheered him. He had however believed that the right hon. gent, thought them of the highest importance, as the safeguard of our religion and church. But, at any rate, if a dead letter, they were most odious to the sight, and ought to be removed.Mr. Whitbread
 bore testimony to the excellent regulations of the hulks, and to the praiseworthy attention of Mr. Graham, under whose direction they were.Mr. Whitbread
177 now understood the right hon. gent, to mean, that the chargé d'affaires was not to continue the discussions on the matters in dispute, but merely to keep up the general diplomatic correspondence between the two countries. The
177Mr. Whitbread
175 moved, that that paragraph in the Prince Regent's Speech, which related to the discussions with America, should be read, in order to entitle him to ask a question on that subject. [The paragraph was then entered as read.] He had on a former night put a question to the right hon. gent, opposite relative to the State of the discussions so long pending
175Mr. Whitbread
183l182l rose, pursuant to notice, to submit to the House a motion relative to the amount of the dividend made by the directors of the East India Company in the teeth of an act of parliament, at a time when they could not shew that they had any profits, from which alone such dividends were authorised to be made by law. The hon. gent. assured the House that he should that night content himself with moving for a paper to ascertain the fact, that at the last time of declaring the dividend a sum of 630,000183l182lMr. Creevey
 had heard nothing to convince him of his error. He had been charged with misconceiving the law and the fact. But for the fact, he had only taken the documents that were on their table. He found a learned member (Mr. Adam) agreeing with him that the company were entitled to pay a dividend only out of their profits; so that finally he had for his fact the secretary of the directors, unless they chose to disown their secretary's act; and for his law, he had the authority of the counsel to the board. By the documents signed by the secretary, the company were certainly fifteen millions worse than nothing. But it would be expedient to know if any case on the subject had been submitted to that learned counsel, and if it were, it ought to be laid before the House, as, on a subject of such high importance, they could not have too much information.Mr. Creevey
 had no wish to bring on an extended discussion, but from his connection with the company, he thought it necessary for him to deliver his opinion. After the most minute consideration of the 107th and 111th sections of the Act of 1793, he must say, that the conduct of the East India company, and of the directors in particular, was perfectly correct in point of law, and justified in all its parts by the act of parliament. The grand fundamental principle which was to be considered by those who came to treat the question was, that the India system was the government of a great territory by a commercial company, audit was the right and duty of that commercial company to have their dividends paid out of the profits of their commerce.Mr. Adam
 could have no objection to give the papers which were applied for. The hon. member would find that his ideas on the subject were perfectly erroneous. His statement was unfair and unfounded both in the law and the fact; and there could be nothing more prejudicial than to send forth to the public and the proprietors so unfounded a representation of the state of the company's funds. He did not understand the law sufficiently to detail it or argue upon it in the case before the House, but he understood from those who were perfectly versed in it, that the law and the fact bore out the directors in the line which they had pursued.Mr. Astell
 spoke to the same effect, and expressed a hope that the adoption of the amendment might not protract the completion of the report of the committee.Mr. Wilberforce
 wished to know, before the motion was put, whether the minister did not intend to give notice to apprise the House of the expiration of the company's charter.Sir J. Newport
 said, he had received information of one ship having been seized laden with slaves, and that there were three others in similar circumstances which were following. From every information the trade was still carried on to a great extent, and he trusted every measure would be adopted totally to prevent it.Mr. Marryatt
240 that such was
240Mr. Brougham explained,
 though no person viewed the traffic with more horror than he did, was still of opinion, that having been so long suffered to exist, the House ought not at once to go the length of punishing it with death. To the proposition of the hon. and learned gent, as now stated by him, he gave his hearty assent.Mr. Canning,
 opposed the Resolution, on the ground that no inconvenience had arisen out of the regulation now existing, and that the one proposed would have the effect of unnecessarily retarding the public business. He objected also to the preamble, the wording of which implied a direct censure on the Union between both countries—a measure which, although sincerely and strenuously opposed by himself, had yet been cordially supported by the right hon. baronet.Mr. Foster
 thought the objection of the right hon. gent. to the preamble rather singular: the preamble was disapproved of because it censured a measure which had been supported by his right hon. friend. Did that preamble stale what was not the fact, or rather did it not speak the language of the commercial interests in Ireland? Were not those interests from day to day, in every session, obstructed and injured by the pernicious system of hurry, precipitance, and inadvertance which marked all their proceeding upon Irish questions? One ground of the right hon. gent.'s objection to the proposed regulation was, that no inconvenience resulted from the present mode. His personal experience enabled him to set the right hon. gentleman right on that head. He had known repeated instances, in the course of the last and former sessions, in which measures involving the interests of one of the first commercial cities in the empire, the city which he had the honour to represent (Cork), were rapidly carried through that House, though he had made earnest but ineffectual applications for time to consult with his constituents upon them. He had, then, no doubt that the present mode was a bad one. Whether that proposed by his right hon. friend could completely remedy the evil, he was not equally certain; but sure he was, that some change in the present regulation was imperiously necessary; and as the resolution proposed must, in some degree, effect that change, it should have his cordial support.Mr. Hutchinson
243 of Dublin said, that he could not agree with the right hon. gent. who spoke last, in thinking that no inconvenience had resulted from the present mode. He had had personal experience of many, affecting his constituents in particular, where measures were hurried through the House: amongst others, the Dublin Police Bill had not been treated with that consideration which it called for. Upon this and many other occasions, he
243Mr. Shaw
 was surprised to hear the hon. gent. who spoke last select the Dublin Police Hill as an instance of that hurry and neglect of which he had complained. That Bill was brought into the House some time before Easter, and was not passed into a law till some time after Easter. What had appeared so very absurd in the repeal of the clause of the Wide-street Commissioners Bill by the Dublin Coal Bill, would not be thought so extraordinary when it was known that 'the Wide-street commissioners fund was principally supplied by the product of a duty on coals; here however it was evident that the hon. gent.'s observations could not apply, because that Bill was a private Bill, and therefore its delay could not have been owing to those alledged inconveniences which the resolution of the right hon. bart. meant to remedy.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation said, that he meant the Paving Bill.Mr. Shaw,
246 thanked the hon. gent, for his candour. He conceived, however, that the imagined dangers to the liberties of the House were merely a phantom of his own creation. With respect to the business of the House being less in this than in former sessions, it was too early yet to determine so. With respect to the curtailment of the period of the session, nothing of importance was really ever done before Christmas. He did not see the necessity of the hon. gent.'s additional regulations. With respect to the days, he had no objection to taking Monday and Friday for the Orders
246The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 enlarged upon the increase of business, and the diminution of the periods of the session of late, and stated that if members did not chuse to attend in summer, Calls of the House ought to be resorted to.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 deprecated the idea of members consulting their own convenience in preference to the public interest.Mr. Bastard
 said, that there were inconveniences in the present practice of the House, and he was afraid of inconveniences from the present order, but, upon the whole, he was inclined to give it a trial for a session.Mr. Canning
 in allusion to what had been said by the hon. baronet respecting the Bill which he had spoken of as having been passed before the remonstrance of the people of Ireland could be received, appealed to the House (having stated the progress of it) if it could be said to have been hurried through the House. He then replied to the other statements of the hon. baronet, and vindicated the conduct of the House, in the instances to which allusions had been made. He denied that the House had been in the habit of neglecting the business of Ireland: so far from that being the fact, every degree of attention was paid to it which the importance of the subject could require.Mr. Foster,
 would not take individual instances that might be adduced, as proving that general inconvenience was not experienced.Mr. Hutchinson
239malum in se.malum prokibitum238237236235nem. con.234 rose, agreeably to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for rendering more effectual the Act for the Abolition of the Slave Trade. He moved, that the Resolution of the House of the 10th of June 1806, be read; and the same was read as follows: "Resolved,
239malum in se.malum prokibitum238237236235nem. con.234Mr. Brougham
244 had the satisfaction of knowing that the Bill alluded to by the last speaker, so far from having been hurried through the House improperly, had been brought in on the 17th of February, and postponed for various reasons to the 14th of April, and even then it had been still further postponed. Neither the Police nor the Paving Bill bore the hon. member out in his statements. When such charges were brought forward, he was anxious that it should be proved there were solid grounds for them, or that they should be flatly contradicted, that it might be known
244Mr. Croker
Chancellor of the Exchequer was sorry to understand, that the illicit trade in slaves had so greatly increased, that if not effectually checked, it seemed as if it would shortly exceed that slave trade which had been abolished. The Chancellor of the ExchequerMr. Barham
 wished to have Monday for the Notices, as from the two. days' rest, members came fresh to the House on Monday.Mr. Whitbread
 believed the right hon. gent, who brought forward the motion did it from the best of motives; but the alteration, if carried, would, he had reason to believe, be of great detriment to the liberties of the House. He did not see the necessity of it. The press of business in the three last sessions of parliament could alone give a colour to its necessity; but in each of these sessions important public inquiries were carried on. The present session was not likely to be attended with a similar press of business. The great evil was the shortening the period of the sitting of parliament, which had taken place since the union. It was, it seemed, inconvenient for the Irish members to come over till after Christmas, and it was inconvenient for the English members to sit after Midsummer; so that something was cut off from the beginning and something from the end, and the session reduced from 26 to 20 weeks. If the motion was carried, it should be followed up with other measures to make it complete. All Orders of the Day should be called on in succession; and no new Bill should pass the House, the debate of which began after 10 o'clock. He complained of the want of perception in many respectable members of the House, of the evils that would follow the motion; and he was afraid, though the order was only to remain for a session, it would in all likelihood become an annual vote. He then adverted to the days—the House had never sat any time on Saturday since 1793, and that day went for nothing; while the minister had Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. He hoped he would limit his days to Wednesday and Friday.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that until some case was made out of actual inconvenience under the present mode, he should not vote for any change in it.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 strongly supported the measure now recommended to the House, and begged his hon. and learned friend to accept his warmest thanks for the great trouble and anxiety he had shewn in bringing the matter before the House. He hoped, that as they had a great deal to answer for in allowing so horrid a traffic to exist for such a length of time in this country, the House would now do all they could to make a compensation for the evils they had so long suffered to exist, by providing, by every means in their power, for its total prevention in future. The measure of his hon. and learned friend, he trusted, would have this effect. He had no doubt it would be unanimously agreed to; but, if it should prove ineffectual, other measures must be resorted to.Mr. Wilberforce
242 said, that the right hon. bart. who had brought forward this motion, did not merit the imputation cast upon him, of having unnecessarily made an attack on the Union. That Ireland would suffer by the loss of her local legislature
242Mr. Parnell
241 rose, pursuant to notice, to move a resolution, ordering that no Public Bill should pass that House, unless the same interval should occur between its first and second reading, which took place between the first and second reading of every Irish, Private Bill. He said that it was but fair,. that the Irish should have a fair opportunity of knowing the exact state of their public business in that House. This he conceived to be impracticable under the existing regulations. There was an act then pending in the House, limiting the number of persons concerned in stagecoaches. This would considerably affect private property in tolls, and would in all probability be passed into a law before any portion of those most interested in its-provisions would know any thing of any-such measure having been agitated. After some further observations, he concluded with moving,—" That, in order to afford to the people of Ireland an adequate opportunity for communicating to parliament their representations on the probable effect of the legislative regulations about to be enacted, exclusively affecting that part of the united kingdom, and thereby to lessen the inconvenience to which they are subjected, by the removal to a considerable distance of the seat of the legislature, it is just and expedient that such an interval of time should be required to elapse between the second reading and the committal of every Public Bill, exclusively
241Sir John Newport
 in reply, instanced the inconveniences which had been experienced through a money Bill being hurried through the House, imposing a tax on advertisements, which Bill was passed before the representations and explanations of the people of Ireland were received. He also mentioned another instance of the tax imposed upon hand bills. He thought it his duty, however friendly he might be to the legislative union of the two countries, to bring those circumstances forward, and to communicate to the House the general feelings of the people. Nothing could be more injurious to the interest of the empire than to oppose such a Resolution; nothing more likely to counteract the efforts of the Union.Sir J. Newport,
248 observed, that he supposed the hon. gent. entertained so strong a sentiment of repugnance to the Resolution of the House last night, as to be determined to lose no time in showing his hostility to it. He could not conceive what other motive could induce him so immediately to break in upon the established practice of the House, a practice that had prevailed for the last thirty years. He admitted most readily,
248The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that the object of the Resolution was only to try an experiment for the purpose of promoting the general accommodation of the House, and of facilitating public business. It was therefore, in his opinion, rather unfair so soon to attempt an infringement of it. The inconvenience which it sought to remedy, had been acknowledged on all sides, and he could not regard it, therefore, as any deep laid scheme of the ministers to prevent those discussions in that House., which were so necessary under a free government. Wishing well as he did to the interests of the country, he feared that they were sometimes in danger of suffering by deferring the consideration of questions in which they were involved to party objects and divisions.Mr. Witberforce
249 had no doubt of the veracity of the hon. member's frequent declaration of the honesty and purity of his intentions, but he should not have thought it necessary to remind him that the charge
249Mr. Ponsonby
 thought it was the intention of the hon. gent. merely to assert the right inherent in a member of Parliament, of making a motion without notice, and imagined it was not his intention to divide the House.Sir F. Burdett
 said, that the motion should certainly have his support, inasmuch as it was meant to try the right of every individual member. He was the last man to wish that courtesy to the House should be neglected, but the right hon. gent. was not contented with the convenience derived from the observance of this courtesy, but had rather acted on the principle, that because the House granted certain indulgencies, he would extend his claims, and make them matter of right. He was not the first minister who had lost his temper, and indeed it was very hard on him that he should have to spend so many hours in that House. But he apprehended that the experience of last session gave him an additional cause of alarm, and that he was afraid not merely of being kept out of bed, but of being left in a minority—a still greater inconvenience.Mr. Tierney
 gave notice, that in consequence of the Resolution which had been come to, he should on an early day, submit certain regulations to the House, which that Resolution made necessary. He intended to move, That the Orders of the Day should be called over in regular succession; and also to move, That no motion of importance should be brought on alter ten o'clock.Mr. Whitbread
 in reply, stated such to be his motive.Mr. Creevey,
l247 said, he came to exercise his undoubted right as a member of parliament, of saying or moving any thing upon the subject of Grievances, whenever the question of Supply was before the House. On that day of this present session, when a Supply was first mentioned, he had, in the exercise of this same right, complained of the intolerable grievance of passing various bills of the first importance last session, at hours of the night when few members were present, and the subject of them impossible to be discussed or known. Yesterday had produced a new Standing Order from the House, professing to remedy this evil, by giving precedence on certain days to Orders of the Day before Notices, and on other days to Notices before Orders of the Day: but the avowed principle of this new Order was convenience to members, and no advantage to the public: the grievance he had complained of was not redressed by this
l247Mr. Creevey
th Marchl25825725613,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 1810
13,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 181013,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1810
13,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 181012,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809
12,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809£.9,846,889.
£.9,846,889.
13,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 1810
13,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 181013,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1810
13,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 181012,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809
12,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809£.9,846,889.
£.9,846,889.255ll254253252251 the chairman of the chamber of commerce and manufacture at Glasgow, said—"That in Glasgow and the neighbourhood the distress began among the manufacturing body of people, and it has pressed more severely upon them hitherto, than on any other class.—That it began about the month of October or beginning of November last: the cause of it appeared to him to be this. That a set of merchants in London, Liverpool, and Glasgow, conceiving that the markets of South America would consume a vast quantity of our manufactures, entered into a project of very extensive exports to those countries and to the West India islands, chiefly intended for the Spanish colonies; these expeditions not meeting a ready market, those exporters have not been able to pay the manufacturers, when the bills became due; these bills were
th Marchl25825725613,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 1810
13,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 181013,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1810
13,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 181012,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809
12,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809£.9,846,889.
£.9,846,889.
13,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 1810
13,761,136.And in the three quarters ending 10 October 181013,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1810
13,616,723.In the year ending 5 Jan. 181012,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809
12,835,803.In the year ending 5 Jan. 1809£.9,846,889.
£.9,846,889.255ll254253252251Mr. Garden,
266 said, he was disposed to give the hon. gentleman the fullest credit for the principle on which he had acted, in bringing the subject under the consideration of the House; but he did not see that even if the motion were acceded to, the object which he had in view would be obtained, and therefore he did not conceive there was any ground for entertaining it. At the same time, while he admitted that the bon. gentleman had used great candour in his speech, he could not deny that great grievances did exist; that there was a deficiency in the power of administering justice in various points, and, consequently, that it became the duty of the legislature to see that deficiency supplied. But when he stated thus much, he must also observe, that this increase in the business of the courts arose principally from the opulence of the country. The House would keep in mind the particular points of jurisdiction to which the hon. gentleman had directed their attention in the first instance, namely, the number of appeals undecided in the other House. That being the first of the grievances complained of, the subject had been taken up by that House, and more correctly so than by this House. It would therefore, in his opinion, be advisable at least to wait and see what course that House would pursue on the subject. With respect to arrears of cases in the court of Chancery, when it was recollected, that in the House of Lords the noble lord who presided, also sat in the court of Chancery, the best course to pursue would be to ascertain, in the first instance, in what way the cases of appellants might be accelerated, so as to administer strict justice; and then to ascertain whether greater facilities might not be afforded, in order to expedite the business in the other court. When the hon. gentleman talked of providing some remedy for the grievances, he conceived that without abandoning that duty which most certainly belonged to this House in point of redressing the griev-
266The Chancellor of the Exchequer
269268 declared, that if the question of adjournment should not be carried, he should vote for the motion of his hon. friend: and he was desirous of stating his reasons for giving the vote which he should give on this occasion. The motion would not convey, either directly or indirectly, any mark of censure upon the noble and learned lord, as the hon. and learned gentleman opposite had just supposed; and he did assure the House, that nothing could give him greater concern than to be thought to give his consent to any motion which could in any way be
269268Sir Samuel Romilly
 said, that he thought the most expedient course was, as the delay complained of consisted chiefly in the appellant jurisdiction of the House of Lords, that the remedy should originate with them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, with regard to the proceedings in the courts of law, that there was not the slightest occasion for any alteration there. The business of each term was concluded in the term, and that of every sitting was concluded before the commencement of the next term.The Attorney General
 said, it was his intention, if the motion of adjournment were negatived, to move the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d278277276275274273272271270 rose and spoke as follows: Mr. Speaker, in rising to address the House, pursuant to notice, it affords me the highest satisfaction to see in his place that right hon. member (Mr. W. Pole) whose Circular Letter lying by the order of this House on its table, is the cause of the motion with which I shall have the honour to conclude. Whether that motion shall succeed or not,
d278277276275274273272271270Mr. Ponsonby
316 said:—Sir; upon a question of this kind, so immediately connected with the city of Dublin, I should feel it difficult to content myself with a silent vote. Differing materially as I do with those gentlemen, with whom I have hitherto been in the habit of acting, I am the more anxious to be distinctly understood.—Whatever necessity the right hon. gent. might suppose to have existed for putting a stop to those meetings, sure I am that the prevalent conviction upon this subject in Ireland was, that of all modes to be adopted for the suppression of those meetings, that selected by the hon. gent, was of all others the most unfortunate, and least likely to attain the object he had in view. It is evident to every man that such a letter should never have been issued, but after the most mature deliberation, and under circumstances of the most pressing necessity. And when we consider that many of the gentlemen who attend and compose those meetings, are gentlemen dignified by birth, by fortune, and highly elevated in society for character and reputation, a communication should have been made to them by government, in a manner very different, and less likely to widen that breach which so unhappily exists in our country. But what have been the circumstances? After having been hastily resolved, it is as timidly abandoned. Is this a line of conduct likely to raise the character of the Irish government in the eyes of the Irish people? We find the magistrates, after going to act on it, enter into a long altercation, and many messages pass backward and forward from the castle, which ends in a paper war between the parties—and the only result from it is, that the unfortunate Circular Letter has gone out
316Mr. Shaw, of Dublin,
321320319318 said, Sir; In rising to claim the indulgence of the House in making my reply, I cannot help taking notice, in the first place, of the observations of the hon. baronet who has just sat down. I am sure that he has only stated his real sentiments on the subject, and that those sentiments are always entitled to consideration and respect. But when he states that in his opinion the measure of Catholic emancipation would not yield satisfaction to the people of Ireland, it ought not to be forgotten that this was the mere opinion of an individual in opposition to the plain declarations, the known sentiments, and the expressed wishes, of the sufferers themselves. Surely the hon. baronet will not be disposed to assume that he is better informed of the feelings and temper of the Irish Catholics than the Catholics themselves, who have so long and so vainly supplicated for this boon of emancipation. He can scarcely affect to know what will conciliate the complainants better than themselves. The hon. baronet remarked likewise that emancipation would be useless, unless accompanied by other measures. Upon what principle of justice, I will ask him, or by what rule of reasoning, can he determine to refuse the Catholics one concession, only because he cannot at the same time yield them others? Why would he, because he cannot bestow on them what they do not ask, withhold that fur which they have so frequently petitioned? An hon. member delivered a panegyric upon the indulgence and lenity which had uniformly characterised the duke of Richmond's government. Sir, I shall be the last man in any place, or on any occasion, whatever may be my political enmities, to impute to any man misconduct, where there is not evidence of his culpability. In the panegyric, therefore, on his grace the lord lieutenant, I am folly inclined to concur, as far as it may be understood to imply that good humour and benevolent intention by which I believe him to have been actuated. But this is not the question now before
321320319318Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he differed intirely from the last speaker, and saw no reason for changing the opinion he had recently expressed upon a former occasion.Sir Hugh Montgomery
 vindicated the Lord Chancellor from what he thought a stigma cast upon him by the hon. gentleman, by the observations he had made. The public would be deluded if they were allowed to think that blame was imputable to the Lord Chancellor. From the statement of the hon. gentleman, it would appear as if the noble lord did not devote much time to the suitors of his court, but rather attended to politics. There was a vast variety of judicial business which the public knew nothing of, such as demurrers, bills of exceptions, &c. which the noble lord was obliged to attend to. When the hon. gentleman talked of only one cause being heard, he was not correct; and he certainly had not done the noble lord justice in quoting from a publication in which the author had misstated and misrepresented the cases, and had charged the court of Chancery with making use of the money of suitors in building a register office, and some other buildings for the convenience of the officers of the court. With respect to the motion, he should vote against it, because the matter was taken up in another place.Mr. Simeon
 agreed in the amendment of his hon. friend, but complained that the arguments of another hon. friend of his were rather directed against a book which he did not write, than against any thing he had said. He quoted some additional cases of delay, and disclaimed any intention to cast the slightest reflection upon his noble friend who was placed at the head of the court of Chancery.Mr. Taylor
265l264263262261 rose to bring forward his motion respecting the cases of Suitors in the other House of Parliament, and in the Court of Chancery. The hon. gent, regretted that he should be compelled to resort to the painful necessity of calling the most serious attention of the House to the situation of appellants in the highest court of judicature in the kingdom, and to the cases of suitors in the high court of Chancery. He had thought that after the assurance which he received during the last session from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that something would be done to redress the grievances of which suitors complained, that he should have been spared the trouble of intruding himself again on the notice of the House. As yet, however, notwithstanding the promise given, nothing had been done—at least no active measure had been taker. It was true that a motion had been made in the House of Lords, and a committee appointed to inquire into these cases. [Here the Speaker interrupted the hon. gent. by reminding him that he was not strictly in order in making references to the proceedings in the other House of Parliament.] Mr. M. A. Taylor proceeded, and admitted that he was not in order, observing, however, that in alluding to those proceedings, he spoke of the House of Lords as an appellant jurisdiction. In the House of Lords then a motion had been made—
265l264263262261Mr. M. A. Taylor
 was desirous of taking, with the same good humour in which it had been given, the allusion made to himself. From the advice as to the future, and castigation for the past, with which, the right hon. gent, had accompanied his remarks on what he supposed to have fallen from him, he must ask a question of the right hon. gent., namely, whether he received his information from newspaper report, or in a communication from any hon. friend who had been present, and thought that he had used words in the absence of the right hon. gent, which he would not have used had he been present? If the former, he having nothing to do with any newspaper, could not be answerable for what it might state. If the latter, he was not conscious of having said any thing that he would not have stated, had the right hon. gent. been present; and he begged to tell him, that he would not be prevented, in consequence of the absence of the right hon. gent., from making such remarks as he might think necessary upon any measure in which he was concerned. There were always a sufficient number of gentlemen present, connected with the right hon. gent., who could ac quaint him with what was said.Mr. Whitbread
 could not answer for a newspaper statement.Mr. Whitbread
267 wished to state his opinion upon the question, an opinion which he had formed four years ago when the bill was before parliament respecting the Scotch Courts. He did not agree either with the right hon. gentleman, or his hon. friend. 'I he grievance of delay was very manifest; the delay in cases of appeal which came from Scotland, was more seriously felt than in this kingdom. With respect to the cases in the court of Chancery, he agreed with his hon. friend, that the noble lord evinced great anxiety to do justice to all parties, in administering the duties of that court; but it was certainly true that dilatoriness had arisen to a great height, and this without imputing blame to any one officer of the court. It was not so in the common courts of judicature;
267Mr. Adam
 alluding to that part of the statement of Mr. Pole which mentioned a threat having been held out by the duke of Bedford's government to the Catholics, of putting in force the Convention Act, stated that the government of that day had no doubt admonished the Catholics to do nothing in contravention of the law; but with respect to any threat as to the Convention Act, not only was that not so, but the thing was never even thought of, or in contemplation. His wish was for information on a subject of such importance, and therefore he must vote for the motion. He was not a person who would countenance an infraction of law, nor did he know that any such existed.Mr. Elliot,
 asked what were the instances selected by the right hon. Secretary, in proof of the proceedings resorted to by the Committee being subversive of the Irish government? They voted thanks to lord Donoughmore: Was this the first act subversive of the Irish government? They next take notice of a poor soldier, degraded and punished because he would not march to a church, where he was to hear a doctrine of which he did not approve. Was this subversive of the Irish government? No; but the principles which produced this conduct toward the soldier in question might, and in all probability would, lead to the subversion of the Irish government. Then they take notice of a letter of Dr. Troy, with respect to the Foundling Hospital. But were there any other overt acts of treason? Yes; they appointed a Committee to state what were the disabilities of which they complained, and this the right hon. gent. nick named a Committee of Grievances; and their numbers being reduced to 36, they wished to increase the number. Another act, subversive of the government of Ireland, was an intimation of an Address to the Regent. If all of these acts were known, why was not the pleasure of the Regent taken upon them? Did the government believe his Royal Highness would not sanction them? Or was it meant to throw, a stigma upon his government, or rather upon his character? If the latter, never was a more unsuccessful attempt, for never did his name stand so high, in love, favour, and affection, in Ireland, as it did since the steps which had followed the issuing of the letter in question, by which the right hon. gent, would have shewn his tender mercy, by imprisoning one half of the population of Ireland. The conduct of the Catholics, however, had united all the Protestants in one, teaching them to regard the acceding to the Catholic claims as the only security for the safety of the country.Mr. Tighe
310309"EDWARD HAY, Sec""Resolved, That the thanks of this Committee be returned to George Bryan, esq. for his very proper, spirited, and dignified conduct in the chair."The VISCOUNT SOUTHWELL in the Chair."GEORGE BRYAN, Chairman.""Resolved, That this Committee do adjourn to the third Tuesday in April"Resolved, That the arrangement for collecting signatures to the Catholic Petition, be entrusted to our secretary, Mr. Hay.their respective counties to concur in such Address.308"Resolved, That a meeting of the Catholics of Ireland be called at the Farming Repository, in Stephen's green, on Friday next, at the hour of eleven o'clock in the forenoon, to take into consideration a dutiful and loyal Address to his royal highness the Prince of Wales, and that such meeting do request the Catholics in"Resolved, That the Petitions be engrossed, and transmitted to the earl of Fingal, to be by him handed to the earl of Donoughmore and the right hon. Henry Grattan."GEORGE BRYAN, Esq. in the Chair;***d307"EDWARD HAY, Sec,""Resolved, That our most particular thanks are justly due and hereby returned to the lord Ffrench, for his dignified, manly, spirited, and constitutional conduct, on this and every other occasion, in the pursuit of Catholic freedom."Sir EDWARD BELLEW, bart in the Chair:"FFRENCH, Chairman.""Resolved, That the foregoing Resolutions be published."Resolved therefore, That this Committee, impressed with a deep sense of the unjustifiable and unmerited degradations and disabilities which affect those of their communion, as well as with a strong feeling of the duty they owe to those who have entrusted said petitions to their management, do now pledge themselves to each other and to their fellow sufferers, unremittingly to persevere in, and never to abate from any constitutional effort, until they shall finally achieve their common freedom; an event which can now alone afford to those attached to their native land, any certain prospect of maintaining, unbroken and invincible, the integrity and independence of the British Islands.for the performance of a single and specific object, as already stated, it confidently feels that it cannot, by any forced and oppressive construction, be placed within the meaning of the law called the Convention Act.306"Resolved, That not having received any appointment except of the nature and"Resolved, That having in their endeavours to perform the duty imposed on them, most studiously avoided any infraction on the known laws and constitution of their country, they learned with equal surprise and indignation, that imputations have been cast on certain parts of their proceedings, calculated to render questionable their legality; and in further pursuance thereof, that measures have been resorted to, and threats issued, which if persevered in must utterly destroy a right, one of the dearest to all British subjects, and to the Catholics of Ireland almost the only valuable one they enjoy, the right of Petition."Resolved, That this Committee has been appointed by an aggregate meeting of the Catholics of Ireland, to prepare and procure, to be presented to parliament, on their behalf, petitions for the removal of all such penalties and disabilities as affect those of their pursuasion."Resolved, That the. correspondence between the lord Ffrench and Mr. Secretary Pole be published."The LORD FFRENCH in the Chair;***305304THOS. R. BABINGTON.(Signed) FRED. DARLEY."As far as we can recollect, this is a correct statement of the substance of what occurred.""Mr. O'Gorman asked alderman. Darley if he entered that room for the purpose of preventing the Catholic body from signing their petition to parliament, he, Mr. O'Gorman, having come there for that purpose, during his, alderman Darley's absence? Alderman Darley said, certainly not.signing and forwarding their petition? Lord Ffrench declared that it was not a Catholic Committee, and said he would shew the magistrates that that meeting could not be the Catholic Committee, and was proceeding to say more, when he was interrupted.303"Alderman Darley having returned from Mr. Pole, stated, that as lord Ffrench had assured the magistrates that the meeting was not the Catholic Committee, but a meeting of Catholic gentlemen, for the purpose of signing and forwarding their petition to parliament, it was the order of government, that the magistrates should not by any means interrupt them. Alderman Darley having again asked lord Ffrench whether that was a meeting of the Catholic Committee, or a meeting of Catholic gentlemen for the purpose of"Alderman Darley seeming to decline, lord Ffrench then asked alderman Darley, would he commit the peace of the country, and take on himself the responsibility, without making this trial? Lord Ffrench added, if it was the wish of Mr. Pole, he and any three or five of the gentlemen present would wait on him. Alderman Darley having consulted with Mr. Babington, at length agreed that he would wait upon Mr. Pole. Mr. Babington remained in the room during his absence. Lord Ffrench said, if thought necessary, that no gentleman would leave the room during the absence of alderman Darley, nor should any other person be permitted to enter. Some person said that that could not be, as it was an open meeting. In the absence of alderman. Darley, Mr. Hussey asked Mr. Babington, if he had a written information? Mr. Babington replied, that he had better not speak on that business till alderman Darley returned."Lord Ffrench then asked him, would he not pause before he took that step—would he shut the door against their right, to petition? and proposed that he should wait on Mr. Pole, and explain the nature of their meeting."Alderman Darley having information that the Committee was to be there assembled, and having positive directions to disperse the Catholic Committee, conceived himself justified, in reply to Sir Edward Bellew's question, to say, that his orders were, to disperse any meeting at that house."Sir Edward Bellow asked, if it was the order of government to disperse any meeting of Roman Catholics?had a written information; to which he answered that he had.302"Alderman Darley was asked if he"Mr. Babington said, that the magistrates had the highest respect for his lordship; that his sole object in remaining was to try the question—we would do any thing to facilitate the matter—that force was repugnant to our feelings, and that we hoped they would quietly submit. Some, gentlemen replied, there was no question to try; that no individual in the room would resist the laws, and that no force was necessary; that they would go any where with us."Lord Ffrench said, he had as high a respect for the laws as any one, and said if the magistrates began at the end of the room, he hoped he should be the last man turned out—. he said, had he been treated as he might have expected, by Mr. Pole, before any harsh step was taken towards a meeting of that body to which he belonged, by having been sent for, he could have so explained the nature of the meeting as to prevent the interference of a magistrate; he added, that he in his own person had an additional claim, conceiving himself an hereditary counsellor to the crown."Lord Ffrench assured the magistrates that that meeting was not the Catholic Committee—and that he sat as chairman of no Committee, but as chairman of a meeting of Catholic gentlemen, for the purpose of signing and forwarding a petition to Parliament. Lord Ffrench said, it was right to warn alderman Darley, that by taking such steps Towards that meeting, he. might be the first person to disturb the peace. Alderman Barley expressed the regret he felt at discharging so painful a duty, and said that we were unattended by even a peace officer; that, however, our duty must be done."Lord Ffrench demanded of the magistrates by what authority they came there? Alderman Darley replied, that understanding the meeting to be a meeting of the Catholic Committee, he must request of them, as a magistrate, to disperse. Lord Ffrench asked if the order was from government? Alderman Darley said, certainly.Lords, be so good as to come forward and sign. Immediately after the magistrates entered the room, lord Ffrench was called to the chair.301"On the table lay some copies of the Catholic petition, which the persons then present were in the act of signing. Mr. Hay, who was at the table, said, gentlemen, such of you as have signed the petition for the Commons and not for the"Pursuant to the directions of government, alderman Darley and Mr. Babington repaired to the house of Fitzpatrick, in Capel-street, where the Roman Catholic Committee had been used to assemble. They asked Fitzpatrick if there was then a meeting of Catholics in his house? He replied in the affirmative, and ushered the magistrates to the rooms on the first floor, where from forty to fifty gentlemen were assembled.Feb 23, 1811.Police OfficePolice Office***300299298297296295294293292d291290289288287286285284283282281;280279 rose and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker; I am perfectly willing to admit to the fullest extent which the right hon. and learned gent. (Mr. Ponsonby) can desire, that he has a right to call upon me for an explanation of the recent conduct of the Irish government. I acknowledge his claim to demand an explanation of those measures to which ha has alluded in the course of his speech; and I trust that the answer which I am about to give, will prove satisfactory both, to the House and to that right hon. and learned gent. At the same time, Sir, I cannot but express my deep regret, that the zeal and eagerness of the right hon. and learned gent. and other hon. gentlemen on that side of the House, have been ardent at to induce them not only to de-
310309"EDWARD HAY, Sec""Resolved, That the thanks of this Committee be returned to George Bryan, esq. for his very proper, spirited, and dignified conduct in the chair."The VISCOUNT SOUTHWELL in the Chair."GEORGE BRYAN, Chairman.""Resolved, That this Committee do adjourn to the third Tuesday in April"Resolved, That the arrangement for collecting signatures to the Catholic Petition, be entrusted to our secretary, Mr. Hay.their respective counties to concur in such Address.308"Resolved, That a meeting of the Catholics of Ireland be called at the Farming Repository, in Stephen's green, on Friday next, at the hour of eleven o'clock in the forenoon, to take into consideration a dutiful and loyal Address to his royal highness the Prince of Wales, and that such meeting do request the Catholics in"Resolved, That the Petitions be engrossed, and transmitted to the earl of Fingal, to be by him handed to the earl of Donoughmore and the right hon. Henry Grattan."GEORGE BRYAN, Esq. in the Chair;***d307"EDWARD HAY, Sec,""Resolved, That our most particular thanks are justly due and hereby returned to the lord Ffrench, for his dignified, manly, spirited, and constitutional conduct, on this and every other occasion, in the pursuit of Catholic freedom."Sir EDWARD BELLEW, bart in the Chair:"FFRENCH, Chairman.""Resolved, That the foregoing Resolutions be published."Resolved therefore, That this Committee, impressed with a deep sense of the unjustifiable and unmerited degradations and disabilities which affect those of their communion, as well as with a strong feeling of the duty they owe to those who have entrusted said petitions to their management, do now pledge themselves to each other and to their fellow sufferers, unremittingly to persevere in, and never to abate from any constitutional effort, until they shall finally achieve their common freedom; an event which can now alone afford to those attached to their native land, any certain prospect of maintaining, unbroken and invincible, the integrity and independence of the British Islands.for the performance of a single and specific object, as already stated, it confidently feels that it cannot, by any forced and oppressive construction, be placed within the meaning of the law called the Convention Act.306"Resolved, That not having received any appointment except of the nature and"Resolved, That having in their endeavours to perform the duty imposed on them, most studiously avoided any infraction on the known laws and constitution of their country, they learned with equal surprise and indignation, that imputations have been cast on certain parts of their proceedings, calculated to render questionable their legality; and in further pursuance thereof, that measures have been resorted to, and threats issued, which if persevered in must utterly destroy a right, one of the dearest to all British subjects, and to the Catholics of Ireland almost the only valuable one they enjoy, the right of Petition."Resolved, That this Committee has been appointed by an aggregate meeting of the Catholics of Ireland, to prepare and procure, to be presented to parliament, on their behalf, petitions for the removal of all such penalties and disabilities as affect those of their pursuasion."Resolved, That the. correspondence between the lord Ffrench and Mr. Secretary Pole be published."The LORD FFRENCH in the Chair;***305304THOS. R. BABINGTON.(Signed) FRED. DARLEY."As far as we can recollect, this is a correct statement of the substance of what occurred.""Mr. O'Gorman asked alderman. Darley if he entered that room for the purpose of preventing the Catholic body from signing their petition to parliament, he, Mr. O'Gorman, having come there for that purpose, during his, alderman Darley's absence? Alderman Darley said, certainly not.signing and forwarding their petition? Lord Ffrench declared that it was not a Catholic Committee, and said he would shew the magistrates that that meeting could not be the Catholic Committee, and was proceeding to say more, when he was interrupted.303"Alderman Darley having returned from Mr. Pole, stated, that as lord Ffrench had assured the magistrates that the meeting was not the Catholic Committee, but a meeting of Catholic gentlemen, for the purpose of signing and forwarding their petition to parliament, it was the order of government, that the magistrates should not by any means interrupt them. Alderman Darley having again asked lord Ffrench whether that was a meeting of the Catholic Committee, or a meeting of Catholic gentlemen for the purpose of"Alderman Darley seeming to decline, lord Ffrench then asked alderman Darley, would he commit the peace of the country, and take on himself the responsibility, without making this trial? Lord Ffrench added, if it was the wish of Mr. Pole, he and any three or five of the gentlemen present would wait on him. Alderman Darley having consulted with Mr. Babington, at length agreed that he would wait upon Mr. Pole. Mr. Babington remained in the room during his absence. Lord Ffrench said, if thought necessary, that no gentleman would leave the room during the absence of alderman Darley, nor should any other person be permitted to enter. Some person said that that could not be, as it was an open meeting. In the absence of alderman. Darley, Mr. Hussey asked Mr. Babington, if he had a written information? Mr. Babington replied, that he had better not speak on that business till alderman Darley returned."Lord Ffrench then asked him, would he not pause before he took that step—would he shut the door against their right, to petition? and proposed that he should wait on Mr. Pole, and explain the nature of their meeting."Alderman Darley having information that the Committee was to be there assembled, and having positive directions to disperse the Catholic Committee, conceived himself justified, in reply to Sir Edward Bellew's question, to say, that his orders were, to disperse any meeting at that house."Sir Edward Bellow asked, if it was the order of government to disperse any meeting of Roman Catholics?had a written information; to which he answered that he had.302"Alderman Darley was asked if he"Mr. Babington said, that the magistrates had the highest respect for his lordship; that his sole object in remaining was to try the question—we would do any thing to facilitate the matter—that force was repugnant to our feelings, and that we hoped they would quietly submit. Some, gentlemen replied, there was no question to try; that no individual in the room would resist the laws, and that no force was necessary; that they would go any where with us."Lord Ffrench said, he had as high a respect for the laws as any one, and said if the magistrates began at the end of the room, he hoped he should be the last man turned out—. he said, had he been treated as he might have expected, by Mr. Pole, before any harsh step was taken towards a meeting of that body to which he belonged, by having been sent for, he could have so explained the nature of the meeting as to prevent the interference of a magistrate; he added, that he in his own person had an additional claim, conceiving himself an hereditary counsellor to the crown."Lord Ffrench assured the magistrates that that meeting was not the Catholic Committee—and that he sat as chairman of no Committee, but as chairman of a meeting of Catholic gentlemen, for the purpose of signing and forwarding a petition to Parliament. Lord Ffrench said, it was right to warn alderman Darley, that by taking such steps Towards that meeting, he. might be the first person to disturb the peace. Alderman Barley expressed the regret he felt at discharging so painful a duty, and said that we were unattended by even a peace officer; that, however, our duty must be done."Lord Ffrench demanded of the magistrates by what authority they came there? Alderman Darley replied, that understanding the meeting to be a meeting of the Catholic Committee, he must request of them, as a magistrate, to disperse. Lord Ffrench asked if the order was from government? Alderman Darley said, certainly.Lords, be so good as to come forward and sign. Immediately after the magistrates entered the room, lord Ffrench was called to the chair.301"On the table lay some copies of the Catholic petition, which the persons then present were in the act of signing. Mr. Hay, who was at the table, said, gentlemen, such of you as have signed the petition for the Commons and not for the"Pursuant to the directions of government, alderman Darley and Mr. Babington repaired to the house of Fitzpatrick, in Capel-street, where the Roman Catholic Committee had been used to assemble. They asked Fitzpatrick if there was then a meeting of Catholics in his house? He replied in the affirmative, and ushered the magistrates to the rooms on the first floor, where from forty to fifty gentlemen were assembled.Feb 23, 1811.Police OfficePolice Office***300299298297296295294293292d291290289288287286285284283282281;280279Mr. Wellesley Pole
said, that he had his information from the newspapers. It was so like the manner of the hon. gent, however, that he had supposed it correct. He had alluded to it, however, in perfect good humour, and now believed the hon. gent. had not said it.Mr. W. Pole
314313312311 said, that the motion now before the House being one calling for documents, which it was necessary to be in possession of, in order to form a definitive judgment on the legality and policy of the conduct of the Irish government, he should confine his observations wholly to what had fallen from the right hon. gent. in ac-
314313312311Mr. Parnell
317 stated, that in his opinion
317Sir T. Turton
ll322 moved the order of the day for going into a Committee on the Acts respecting the Distilleries of Great Britain. In the Committee: the right hon. gentleman observed, that having the other day explained, as be trusted, to the satisfaction of the House, the principles upon which he was desirous of placing the duties derived to the revenue from the distillation of spirits from grain or sugar, he should now state the reasons which induced him to bring under the consideration of parliament an attempt to equalise the competition in bringing to market either of those commodities. It appeared to him, that, in attempting to introduce the measure which he was about to notice, he should afford equal inducement to the manufacturers of both articles to bring them to market. The measure would not be of long continuance, though he entertained
ll322The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended that the contrary would be the effect of the measure from what the hon. gentleman seemed to apprehend. It would not give a monopoly to sugar, but would produce a fair competition in the market, and would induce the distillers to go to work immediately on barley in preference to sugar. With respect to the agricultural interest, he denied that on all occasions, their interest had not been attended to.Mr. Rose
 objected to the resolution as doing that on a mere speculation which ought to be done only after a mature inquiry. He stated, at length, the grievances of which the West India planter had to complain.Mr. Marryatt
 was averse to a reduction of the military establishment, as we had at present no more soldiers than were necessary to maintain the honour of the country, and bring the war to a happy termination. The arrangements of the noble Secretary at War met generally with his approbation. Adverting to what had been said of the Local Militia, he took occasion to speak of the great advantages derived to that force, from having non-commissioned officers attached to it. With them the Local Militia was every thing, without them nothing.Sir J. Pulteney
 thought it his duty, in times like the present, to oppose any proposition that appeared calculated to diminish the cultivation of grain.Sir J. Sebright
 defended the late Committee on the stale of the West India merchants, from the imputations which had been cast on them. In the manifold distresses of the country, beginning with the colonies and now extending to the manufacturers, the landed interest had not participated. Those who were interested in the colonies, had been wrongfully accused of wishing to indemnify themselves at the expence of the landed interest. All they wanted was to have the preference given to British over foreign produce, that their sugar should be purchased rather than French grain. Although he might have preferred a measure in somewhat a different shape, he warmly supported the proposition of the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Burroughs
 explained and defended those individuals to whom were unjustly imputed sinister designs in the monopoly of corn. He was persuaded that no such monopoly could exist.Sir J. Sebright
 warmly supported the proposition of his right hon. friend, which would give to the barley grower the great advantage of being secure from temporary prohibitions from distillation.Mr. Foster
 replied to the arguments of the several speakers. He saw no reasons for thinking his plan such as ought not to be adopted, from the reception it had experienced. The gentlemen in the landed interest did not think it sufficiently favourable to them; the West India merchants thought it was not so good a thing as the monopoly they had enjoyed; and the distillers thought the scale of duties not exactly what they ought to have been. Now when it was found that none of the parties most concerned were much pleased with the plan, he thought it seemed as if their several claims had been equally balanced, and the interests of all pretty well weighed. From this circumstance he thought, and he trusted the House would think, there was no sufficient reason for rejecting the proposition. The appointment of a select committee, which had been recommended by some hon. gent. would, he thought, only occasion unnecessary delay, as the difference between the Scots and Irish Distilleries could only be removed by an exercise of those powers which, though formidable, were occasionally to be exerted by parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 considered that the powers of the two articles were not placed upon a footing of equality, as the price taken by the right hon. gentleman for barley, was about the price which would afford remuneration to the grower, so in the article of sugar. The West India interests, he observed, never had preponderated over those of any other class of men in the country.Mr. C. Ellis
 objected to the plan of the noble lord for supplying the casualties. He proposed to fill up the regular army with 10,000 men taken annually from the militia. This was the worst way he could take of supplying the army. The hon. gent. then took a view of the several Militia Acts, from which he inferred that the regular quota of the Militia was 70,000 men, and that the 14,000 over that number were in fact but supernumeraries. There could be no objection to the noble lord's filling up the regulars with these 14,000 men, if he wanted them; but to take 10,000 annually from the Militia, would be to take from it a part of its regular quota. How were these to be again supplied? He thought the mode by ballot pressed very heavy upon the country. The ballot ought, in his opinion, to be done away altogether, and the army might then be recruited at less expence.Mr. Giles
 followed on the same side, contending, that the late prices of grain were not such as to justify any complaint from the cultivators. There were but few foreign sources of commerce open at the present moment to the country, and it was desirable that they should not be diminished in number.Mr. Hibbert
324 explained, and disclaimed
324Mr. Curwen
323s objected to the measure, as not giving a monopoly to the barley growers, and he was convinced of the utter impossibility of equalizing the scale. The price of barley, when the Committee first inquired into the subject was at 56, it then lowered to 54, was afterwards at 48, and at the present moment the greatest selling price in Norfolk, where the best barley is grown, was 28323sMr. Curwen
 was anxious that a minute inquiry should be instituted into the merits of this most important question. He trusted that instead of a strife between interests as opposed to each other, the strife would be for the interest of all. He confessed, that as far as he was able to form an opinion on this subject, which had baffled so many individuals experienced in political economy, he was inclined to doubt the validity of the arguments which had been urged in support of the proposition. Investigation and not action was the duty of the House in this business.Mr. Adam
 was averse to any measure by which the cultivation of grain would be discouraged in this country, as calculated to put us in the power of our continental enemy. The most efficacious mode of avoiding this was to permit the free distillation of spirits from grain, unfettered by any competition whatever. He stated the many advantages direct and collateral which the growing of barley occasioned.Mr. D. Giddy
325 was of opinion, the subject
325Mr. W. Smith
 thought the Commissioners of Excise might with great propriety be desired to make experiments for a single year, for the purpose of exactly ascertaining the relation between sugar and grain.Sir J. Sinclair
 differed from the hon. gent. (Mr. Giles) on some points, but agreed with him in thinking the recruiting system preferable to the ballot.Col. Wood
 thought if the measure proposed were to be followed up by further proceedings to render its effects permanent, it would be an infraction of the Union. If, however, it were not to be so followed up, he should then be disposed to consider it on its own merits, and vote accordingly.Sir J. Newport
326 thought no duty more sacred than that of a member of parliament to look into the manner in which the public money was to be applied. He objected to the magnitude of the army establishment, as being disproportionately great. When he looked at the population of this country, which no one, however disposed to swell it, stated to amount to more than 16 or 17,000,000, a regular army of 371,000 men was more than we could bear. When to these were added, the amount of the Militia, which was stated at 84,000 men, the Local Militia, which was not to be reckoned at less than 200,000, and added to the whole the total of those employed in the navy, &c. it appeared, that we had 900,000 men in arms—nearly a third of all the adults under 40 years. After all, it was impossible for us to contend on the
326Sir T. Turton
 spoke in support of the former, and in opposition to the present Bill.Mr. Swan
 thought that the question had not been put upon its proper ground, for that justice demanded they should go into a Committee upon this Bill, in order to ascertain, as had been alleged, whether the former one had been obtained surreptitiously or not.Sir F. Burdelt
333ll332l331l330329in toto rose and said, that in submitting to the consideration of the Committee of the whole House the result of the inquiries of the Select Committee, appointed to investigate the present state of commercial credit, and in avowing the intention of proposing to the Committee to adopt the measure recommended by the Select Committee, he thought it necessary to state, that he had made up his mind to express his opinion with great reluctance, and not till after very serious consideration. He admitted that parliament was not bound, nay he contended that parliament ought not to be called upon to interfere for the purpose of providing against any misfortunes to which incautious adventurers might have exposed themselves; because he conceived that, reasoning on general principles, such an unqualified interference would have a tendency, by relieving the apprehensions of individuals with respect to the result of commercial speculations in which they might have engaged, to diminish the caution so necessary on these subjects, and which was the best check to rash and ill-advised adventures. But while he stated this as a general principle, he yet apprehended that there might be many great exceptions to the rule; and that the question must always be as to the merits of the particular case. Of this he was at least persuaded, that those hon. gentlemen who agreed with him, that a similar interference of parliament in 1793 was wise and necessary, could not now broadly deny 333ll332l331l330329in totoThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll336335l334 then rose and said, that, in the observations which he felt it his duty to make upon the statement of the right hon. gent., he wished to be understood as having no intention so to oppose the motion with which he had concluded, as to press the question to a division by taking the sense of the House upon it. The right hon. gent. himself had, he observed, admitted that the circumstances of the present period were not similar to those which characterised the distresses felt by the commercial world in the year 1793. In his opinion there was no similarity whatever between them. In the former period the continent of Europe, instead of being hostile to us, was, with the exception of France, not only friendly, but the greater part of it was in alliance with us, and France not only wanted the influence she now possessed and exercised over the surrounding nations, but she was unable to prevent their armies taking the field against her interests. At present, on the contrary, so far from the nations of the continent being friendly, we were altogether shut out from every amicable communication—from all commercial intercourse. The right hon. gent. had said, those who had entered into the early and largest speculations with respect to South America, had been punished for their rashness by bankruptcy, and that those now to be relieved were the victims of those speculations, and not the partners in the crime. For his part, he thought (whatever blame might be attempted to be thrown on those who had been most
ll336335l334Mr. Ponsonby
343342 stated, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not recommended the proposed measure in a full confidence of its success; all that he had urged was the probability of such relief affording a reasonable chance of recovery from the present embarrassments of the commercial classes. His hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) in stating the difference between the present period and that of 1793, particularly contended, that in the latter period credit was very high, and trade very encouraging, and that the pressure was but temporary. In that opinion it was his belief that his hon. friend had overstated the point, because he well recollected that many of the great houses then embarrassed, became in a short time bankrupt; indeed, in the neighbourhood of Bristol alone there were no less than six private banks which became insolvent. With respect to the objection which arose from the state of our paper circulation, he had directed his attention most particularly to that subject; and the result of his inquiry was, that, in place of a redundancy of paper, as the House would be
343342Mr. Rose
345 said, that if the cotton-manufacturers were the only persons concerned, the relief might be withheld, perhaps without much injury; but not only the cotton-manufacturers but the landholders, and many other classes, were deeply interested. He could state it as a fact, that the manufacturers never experienced more distress than when they depended on specie. When invasion was expected in this country, the conductors of the trade were not able to pay their poor manufacturers; and the House might rest assured, that the trade of the country could never be carried on to its present extent, if they were to depend on specie alone. Trade had of late years increased
345Sir Robert Peele
350 agreed in one thing with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and that was the observation that the circumstance of the measure having been brought into the House should not prevent him, or any one, from voting against it, if upon a further view it appeared not to be beneficial. With respect to the hon. gentleman's assertion, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had yielded to importunity instead of being a convert to the measure, he would own that he had not the same sanguine hope as in the year 1793, but still he thought that it afforded a favourable chance of relief and ought to be tried. Although the most favourable circumstance in the other case did not exist in the present, still there were many favourable circumstances in this case which were not in the other. The market was not now open as it was then, but in 1793 there was a great fall in the stocks, the 3 per-cents. fell from near 100 down to 70, which produced a total loss of capital which could not be relieved by the measure. A right hon. bart. had stated what would in his opinion be the operation of it upon general credit. It was true, that in the former instance the writ of extent was unlimited, but it might be limited now if deemed expedient. The effect it would produce, he thought, must be to make the friends of the party more cautious of coming forward, unless he could give sufficient security in available property. There were now in the warehouses double the quantity of articles that were lodged in them the year before, and these were not merely applicable to the foreign market, but to the home one also, He differed in opinion from those who thought that by removing the Orders in Council they would open a market on the continent. It was not owing to the Orders in Council that the markets were closed, but to the Decrees of the enemy. He contended, that the Orders in Council, so far from being objectionable, had answered the purpose for which they were intended, by driving the tyrant of the continent to such an extremity as to burn all British commodities; an act by which he destroyed more of the property of his own subjects than of the British merchants. They had driven him to such an act as might afford a chance of ridding the world of its oppressor. He agreed with the hon. gentleman, that if he found he had been wrong, it would not be undignified to change his conduct; but he would beg of
350The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he would agree to his motion if he brought it forward at a time when, consistently with the public interests of the country, they could be granted. He had no objection to repeat what he thought neither improper nor un can did; that gentlemen should not run away with the impression that the repeal of the Orders in Council was all that was required by America., He did not go on to say that there was no hope of accommodating these differences, for he had every reason to hope the contrary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 dwelt on the great importance of the Catholic body to the recruiting our armies. He therefore conceived, that it would tend greatly to increase our armies if the Catholics had that protection by law which the gentlemen on the other side wished them to have by the regulations.Mr. Hutchinson
 observed, that neither the practice of the Irish government, nor their regulations, protected Irish Catholic soldiers in this country. For their protection he thought a change in the law necessary.Mr. Ponsonby
 thought the Catholic soldiers had sufficient protection in the known sentiments of the Irish government, and the general orders they issued. In this country it would be much better that the effects should be produced by a regulation than by a law. If the Catholic soldier was to be especially exempted, every class of dissenters in the army would conceive themselves equally entitled to exemption.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
346 expressed a hope that both questions would undergo a strict discussion at some future period. With respect to the first, the cause from which the misfortune arose, it was undoubtedly influenced in a material degree by the political measures; but the great and immediate cause of the evil was the want of a market As long as a single port was open to us, that purpose was answered, but they were all closed at present, and here was the foundation of the pressure which the Committee were now called upon to remedy. With regard to the speculations themselves, they were perhaps rightly described by a right hon. gent., who said that they proceeded from that sort of greediness which sought to exclude all others from the same advantage. But there was one consequence of the present system which they would do well to look to; if America could not trade with us, she must proceed to manufacture for herself (a thing if possible to be avoided), so that in this point of view the political question was in reality involved in a very great degree. The question to consider was, whether a temporary provision should be made in the present instance? a proposition to which he was inclined to give his assent, as he thought it but proper, that whatever arrangements ministers might have made with the merchants should be carried into effect. The expedient, however, did not appear to him likely to give what the merchants wanted; what they wanted was a market. He warned the House against expecting that the money would be returned in any thing like the period understood. His next great objection was that which arose out of the Bank restriction. Paper, it was known, was already over-abundant, and the operation of this measure would increase the quantity. As a general measure, there fore, it was liable to great objections.
346Mr. Alexander Baring
 moved as an amendment, that it be read this day six months.Colonel Duckett
344 observed, that he was not surprised to hear that many gentlemen manifested considerable reluctance to accede at first to an application for this relief. He had himself, from the principle of the measure, been much indisposed—and nothing could have compelled him to yield his original opinion, but consideration for the distressed state of the manufacturers in Paisley and Glasgow, and in other manufacturing districts. The difference between the present period and that of 1793 was considerable—the distress of the former was particularly felt by the country banks, and of course was partial, whereas the embarrassment now was general. In the former period it was paper credit gave way, and affected commercial credit; at present it is commercial credit that as fallen, while paper credit has been little affected. The Bank of England was then paying in specie, and had in its power the means of correcting the evil effects which this loan to the commercial body might be supposed to produce. The distress was then attributable to a momentary want of confidence, which was soon dissipated; the failure of this day implied a disease of a much deeper and more serious nature. It was to be feared now that from palpable losses, the capital of trade was in a great part destroyed, and consequently there existed an additional danger to the public of not recovering the money which it should at present advance. Therefore, whilst he was willing to assist the distressed manufacturer, he wished the loan to be applied on a charitable and humane principle, and afforded to those persons and places only where the distress was greatest; because if it were to be distributed on a general principle to merchants who could give security, and
344Mr. Henry Thornton
 defended the conduct of the hon. bart. and was not inclined to vote for the repeal of the former Bill.Mr. James Graham
 stated several circumstances relative to the individuals who had promoted and opposed this Bill; and thought the best way to investigate the real facts of the case would be to go into a Committee; where they could be minutely urged.Mr. Calcraft
 added, that all the gentlemen in the county of Kent, both landholders and occupiers, thought that the road in question was unnecessary.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that it was impossible not to see the public confidence was gone; that, therefore, made the measure of temporary relief imperious. Even though the whole money was to be ultimately-lost, the parliament, for the support of our commercial interest, was bound to hazard the experiment. He, however, trusted that the Committee would not limit its attention to this single measure of relief; but, at a proper and early opportunity, apply itself to an investigation of the original and radical cause. From the inquiries he had made in the great manufacturing district of Lancashire, he knew, that the distresses and sufferings of that deserving body were by themselves attributed to the nature of our relations with America. The agricultural interest was now feeling the evil; for, from the distress of the manufacturer, no longer able to purchase the same food as formerly, the farmers could not obtain the same market for their produce. In Scotland, he knew it to be a fact, that the farmers were willing to sell at this moment their fat stock at the lean prices. He conjured the Chancellor of the Exchequer therefore, whatever may be his own predilections, not to continue bigotted to a scheme of policy, which had produced, and must continue to produce, such wide spread distress and privations.Mr. Curwen
 said he should oppose the committal of this Bill, as it went to repeal a former one, which had been found to be a great and serious convenience.Mr. John Smith
 spoke in favour of the conduct of the hon. bart. in regard to the former Bill, which he thought was a good one, and, without further grounds, ought not to be repealed.Mr. Peter Moore
 would not say that he was courageous enough to resist the vote at present, but he was anxious to be distinctly understood as not intending to pledge himself so far as to prevent his retracting, if at a future stage his conviction told him that it would be right. Of all those who had spoken, not one had expressed a sanguine notion of the success of the measure. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declined answering a question which he had put to him the other day, as to whether he was prevailed upon by importunity to accede to the measure, or was converted to it. If he might judge from the speech of the right hon. gentleman to-night, it appeared that he was no convert, but was persuaded by importunity. The hon. baronet (sir Robert Peele) had spoken with great feeling, but the question was not whether, they should yield to feeling, but whether, the grant of six millions was likely to be of advantage to the operative manufacturer? He characterised the Report as one of the most loose and ill digested that ever was laid before the House, and selected some parts from Mr. Gordon's evidence to prove an inconsistency in his statements. He charged the Committee with not attending sufficiently to the re-' solutions of the Deputation, and reminded the House that he had originally objected to the formation of the Committee, upon the ground that it was likely to be influenced by too large a portion of feeling. He wished that the Report upon the other Exchequer bills had been received before' this motion was made, and alluded to the representation of the flourishing state' of trade in the King's speech of last session.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he was relieved, from the impression made upon him at first, by the different tone and manner of, the right hon. gent., now therefore he should content himself with repeating his former questions, as to the objects in dispute between the two governments.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had made some imprudent insinuations with regard to America, which he hoped would not shut gentlemen's minds to the case when it was brought before them; he hoped that if America did make any other demands than those which were generally understood, the right hon. gent. would have no objection to accede to his motion for papers.Mr. Whitbread
356 suggested as a better course to address the Prince Regent to
356Mr. Whitbread
, in explanation, stated, that he by no means wished to convey any imputation against the contractors for the last loan. They took perhaps a very natural course. Having made a very disadvantageous bargain, they were obliged to have recourse to more inordinate speculations, by which the public stock was raised to an unnatural price. Were these inordinate speculations successful, they must have been impositions on the public—failing, they must involve the holders in irretrievable ruin.Mr. Huskisson
341340339338337 said, it was not his intention, in what he should say, to question either the amount of the sum proposed by
341340339338337Mr. Huskisson
 thought the difficulty of so serious a nature, that they were bound to do all they could to remove it. He agreed with the hon. bart. as to the propriety of equalizing the condition of parliamentary and private creditors, and' thought that though the relief might not prove to be sufficient, it was but right to make the experiment.Mr. Manning
347 thought the inconvenience of the measure so far outweighed its advantages, that if his right hon. friend (Mr. Ponsonby) had determined to take the sense of the House upon it, he for one should divide with him. If any man read the Report, he must be struck with the looseness of its assertions; it merely asserted, that loss arose from over-trading, and that benefit would be derived by giving money to assist the losers. He approved of the feelings of the hon. baronet (sir Rob. Peele), though perfectly proper in him it would not he proper in the House of Commons to indulge them. Be ides, if the general principle of such applications were once recognised and established, a pretence would never be wanted for urging them. It appeared to him that there were three sorts of speculators who might meet with considerable difficulty: two of them, being advantageous to the public in general, might be favourably considered, he meant those who exported commodities from this country, and those who imported into it the raw materials from others; such speculators, though they might overtrade a little, might be forgiven. But the third sort to which he alluded, were those who speculated upon articles already in the country, and sought no other object than to put money in the pocket of the monopolist. This trade was not beneficial to any body, and the undertakers of it, when they failed in consequence, ought to be permitted to perish unnoticed. The evidence too upon which they were then called upon to decide was
347Mr. W. Smith
 said, that if Spence had not happened to have a friend to state his case to the government, he would probably have suffered the whole of the punishment. He thought the Catholic soldier should be protected by law.Mr. W. Smith
 thought this clause unnecessary, as the Irish government had never wished to force the Catholics to attend Protestant service, and did give immediate relief to the few Catholics who had been aggrieved in this manner. The hon. gent. had been misinformed as to the facts of the case with respect to Spence, one of the soldiers alluded to. Spence had been ordered to attend church parade. The custom was, to move off the Catholics to mass, and the Protestants to church. This man was about to leave parade, but was told by a Serjeant that he would be guilty of disobedience of orders. Notwithstanding this he did quit the parade, and was afterwards tried by a court-martial, for writing a mutinous letter. The sentence against him was severe. Dr. Troy afterwards made representation to the government, and the man was allowed to commute his punishment by enlisting into a foreign regiment. Upon the representations made, the man was pardoned and discharged the service. The other case was that of a young officer, just returned from the West Indies, who had turned the coats of two of the men for not attending service; the officer was afterwards removed. The right hon. gent, observed, that the object of government in making the order was, that the men should attend divine service, but only in accordance each with his particular form of worship;Mr. W. Pole
 said he should propose, on the third reading, an Amendment in the 21st clause, which provides, That the court martial be empowered to inflict such punishment as may appear to them commensurate with the offence, extending to loss of life, or limb, flogging, &c. The Amendment which he wished to propose was to give an option to the Court to order, in lieu of corporeal punishment, that of imprisonment.Mr. M. Sutton
 said, that at present the only question was, as to the mode; and it appeared to him, that no case had been made out to call for an alteration of the law, but that the regulations would be fully adequate to prevent the evil complained of.Mr. Manners Sutton
327 spoke in support of the
327Sir E. Knatchbull
 moved the second reading of this Bill.Sir E. Knatchbull
 re-stated one of his cases, which was that of a private in the royal artillery having been lately imprisoned 12 days, at Woolwich, for refusing to attend the service of the established church.Mr. Parnell
354353352351 rose, pursuant to notice, to move a clause relative to Catholic soldiers. He did not do so with a view of imputing-any blame to ministers; on the contrary, he was ready to give great praise to the Irish government, for the orders lately issued by the commander of the forces, to prevent commanding officers from compelling Roman Catholics to attend the Protestant divine service. He wished to render their good intentions effectual, by
354353352351Mr. Parnell
 allowed, that the Irish government had interfered in a very handsome manner on the particular Cases brought to heir notice. He thought parliament should now interfere for the general protection of the Catholic soldiers.Sir J. Newport
348 argued, that such grants, dispensed as in the case of 1793, went to derange the whole established system of commerce. Either there should be no secrecy as to the persons borrowing a part of this public money from the commissioners, or the parliamentary creditor should run the same risk as the private creditor. It would otherwise turn out hard upon the latter, that after having lent his money, or taken security on the ostensible property of the debtor—if any failure took place, that on which he depended should, to his great injury, be the sole security of the parliamentary creditor. This he did not think right; it had a tendency not to correct, but to increase the evil. The ground of complaint was the want of a market, and the effect of the measure would be to employ the manufacturers for the present, and add to that glut" which was known to exist in the market already. He dwelt on the expectations held forth from the market of South
348Sir John Newport
 vindicated himself from some insinuations thrown out against his conduct in regard to this Bill; and said, that he had been at first requested to bring it forward in parliament, but had declined doing so, merely on account of his being unacquainted with such business.Sir Walter Stirling
 said, that instances which could be produced of the interference complained of were so very few, that there was no occasion for any law upon the subject, and that it would be much better to leave it as a matter of regulation, as there could be no doubt of the wishes of the government or the commander in chief upon the subject. In the hospitals, wherever there were Catholic soldiers, Catholic clergymen were admitted.Lord Palmerston
 said, he was not aware of a single case of this nature happening in England.Lord Palmerston
 rather thought there would be no occasion for it, as the object of calling the particular attention of the parties concerned to every Bill would be attained by the first notice.Mr. Abercromby
358 of Norfolk, was not present when the measure was proposed, otherwise he would have opposed it. If the value of land had increased, so had the taxes upon land, the poor rates, &c. What did the colonies furnish to the country in comparison? It was in vain to introduce a scale between barley and sugar in this way. To frame any just scale was utterly impossible. He felt for the distresses of the West India Proprietors; but this was the worst way of assisting them that could be devised. The House would
358Mr. Coke,
 maintained, that a scale might very well be adjusted, and that it was fairly done by this measure.Mr. Rose
ss contended that the planter of sugars could not with any fair advantage bring them into the market cheaper than 75ssMr. Marryatt
 urged the propriety of lowering the scale as to grain, in consequence of the various petitions from Scotland last year, stating the low price of it.Mr. Coke
The 360ssssss replied to the principal arguments which had been urged in the debate. He contended, that agriculture and commerce depended one on the other, and that to neglect either was to injure both. The principle of the regulation he had proposed was, to make the duties such that if the price of barley did not exceed 38360ssssssChancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that members who had the management of Private Bills often delayed coming to the House till the hour for public business arrived: and therefore, in many instances, had themselves to blame for the delay. If this regulation should have the effect of procuring a pointed and early attendance, it would greatly facilitate the business of the House.The Speaker
 wished to know, whether, in case the second reading did not take place on the day appointed, owing to a pressure of other matter, the three days notice must be given over again?Mr. Wilbraham Bootle
359 stated, that the produce of
359Mr. Hibbert
 moved, "That no Private Bill be read a second time unless notice of the day proposed for such second reading shall have been given in writing three clear days beforehand, by the agent soliciting the Bill, to the clerks of the Private Bill Office, who shall enter such notice in the Private Bill Register, and certify the same upon the back of the Bill."Sir James Graham
 opposed the scheme, as one of the most pernicious tendency. It was an object to have abundance; there must be a supply beyond the general consumption of man, and the distilleries were most useful in this respect. But the advantage was lost by this perpetual meddling. Barley was absolutely a drug in the market. The time would come, he said, when magazines must be formed to store up grain in years of plenty, and sell it out in times of scarcity. This would be a burthen, but it would prevent the calamity of famine.Mr. Curwen
 voted on the subject as independently as any man. If they would not allow him to distill his sugar he would the better sell his barley in Sussex. The West India interest had supplied the country with seamen, with ships, and with every thing of that sort; why, then, should the West India proprietors be considered as so abject a race? This measure would help to keep our money at home. Our bullion had gone abroad for corn till we had not a guinea remaining, and we could not get change for it if we had. The measure was wanted only for one year. The property of the land owners had, independent of the taxes, risen from 30 to 40 per cent. while the property of the poor West India proprietors had fallen 50 per cent.Mr. Fuller
 was by no means sure that the clause was so unexceptionable. He wished to know the full meaning of the word "imprisonment," was it confinement in the guard-house simply, or in a gaol, or did it mean in the black-hole merely?Mr. Macleod
said, that in case a guardhouse were the prison, he hoped the imprisonment would be solitary.Mr. Macleod
 wished that a mode should be devised, by a full inquiry, to equalise the interests of both.Mr. Brand
 only begged, after the observations he had made on a former night, to say a few words. When a proposition for affording relief to our colonies was introduced some years ago, it was only proposed that it should exist from year to year, and should not be a permanent but only a temporary accommodation. Now, however, the case was different: sugar was now proposed to be brought into the market as a competitor with corn, and that great consumer of corn, the distilleries, was allowed the option to chuse between them. This was a new æra introduced into the law of this country, so far as our agricultural interests were concerned, and one, too, which he thought ought not hastily to be adopted. His hon. friend the member for Norfolk, than whom agriculture had not a more sincere or better informed advocate, had already pointed out the impolicy of any innovation prejudicial to the interests or to the promotion and encouragement of agriculture. He (Mr. Adam) only objected to this as a new principle; and all he asked was, it might be preceded by a Committee to inquire into the fitness of adopting it.Mr. Adam
361 expressed his regret that the clause proposed by his hon. friend last
361Mr. W. Smith
 thought it better to use the word imprisonment; without limiting the discretion of military regulations, there were barracks and garrisons enough in the country where there could be no difficulty of setting apart a room for that purpose.Mr. M. Sutton
 opposed the measure, chiefly on the ground, that the growers of barley ought not alone, out of all the community, to be subjected to the burthen of relieving the West India proprietors. If relief was to be given, it should be from the common stock.Sir John Sinclair
ds contended, that the prices of grain were now such, as, compared with the price of labour, would scarcely repay the farmer. At the same time he was by no means prepared to say that 70dsSir T. Turton
 approved of the clause.Sir T. Turton
Ex Officio said, that as the time was arrived when the notices should come on, and the members most particularly concerned in his intended motion upon the subject of Ex OfficioLord Folkestone
 was of opinion that a considerable degree of inconvenience would result from agreeing to the motion of adjournment, as there was some public business standing for this day, which ought not to be impeded in its progress through the House.Mr. Bankes
366Ex Officio said, that the ground upon which he made the motion was the nature of the new arrangement. He had given regular notice that on this day he should bring the subject of 366Ex OfficioLord Folkestone
 said, he was sure that the House would not agree to an adjournment in the present instance, as he had himself given notice of a motion upon Exchequer Bills. If the noble lord thought proper, he might postpone his motion to a future clay.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, that no member should omit an opportunity of exposing the inconvenience resulting from the late arrangement introduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was generally understood that Wednesday was not a day of business, and the absence of the Attorney and Solicitors-General had placed the noble lord in an extraordinary situation, for he must now postpone his motion until after the orders of the day were disposed of, or bring it on in the absence of those gentlemen who were principally interested in the discussion.Mr. Abercrombie
 agreed to withdraw the motion of adjournment, and said, that in the course of the evening he would name a day for the motion he had noticed for this night.—The noble lord afterwards gave notice, that it was his intention to persist in his motion to-morrow.Lord Folkestone
 said, he, was sorry that in courtesy to him the motion of the noble lord had been postponed; he was unavoidably detained to that moment, and it was the first time that such a thing had happened to him.The Attorney General
dsllssdsldsll367 said, that it was not his intention to enter into any lengthened discussion at the present moment; if it should be thought necessary that such discussion should take place, an opportunity would occur in some future stage. He should now state the sum to be funded in Exchequer Bills, the day in which tenders should be received, and the amount to be paid in stock. He was desirous of trying this year, whether the funding in the five percents might not be carried to a greater extent that it was last year. The amount was then 8,000,000, which he should change in the present year to 12,000,000. He should propose that all bills issued from the 1st day of April 1810, to the 16th day of March, 1811, and carried to the Exchequer between the 21st and 27th of this month,
dsllssdsldsll367The Chancellor of the Exchequer
376 wished to call the attention of the Committee to the services of that brave and valuable body of men, the Royal Marines, whose courage and fidelity, whether afloat or ashore, had ever been proved in the strongest manner, and justly entitled them to the protection of the Community, The officers of the Royal Marines did not possess the advantages enjoyed by the officers of the army. There were 35,000 marines, but only 43
376Mr. Hutchinson
 thought, under the present circumstances, some attempt might have been made to reduce the Navy Estimates this year. The experiment might have been made with little danger. When it was considered how much there was of resource in national wealth, it must be felt that if our expences continued to increase, as in the present Estimates he perceived they did to the amount of between one and two millions, our finances would at last be found weak. He wished the House to be on their guard against dilapidating the resources of the nation.Mr. Bankes
383 was sorry no gentleman was present who could give an official account of the circumstances to which the allusion had been made. He must, however, in justice to the individual before whom such cases were decided, declare, that no man could be more anxious to avoid improper delay,
383The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 made an observation on the circumstance of the Commander in Chief of the Channel Fleet not having been out for two years.Mr. Bastard
 explained the circumstance as arising from causes connected with the gallant attack in the Basque Roads.Mr. Yorke
 said, the plans respecting the harbour at Northfleet and the break-water at Plymouth Sound, were under consideration, and the result was likely to be favourable to their adoption. Though under consideration, he was not at present authorised to include either in the Estimates, and it might be necessary for him hereafter to come forward with a Supplementary Estimate. He thought it highly desirable to have some depot for shipping in the River Thames, but at the same time he was not prepared to say they ought at once to go to the extent of the plan proposed. It might be begun on a great general plan, and carried on by degrees, as the circumstances and means of the country would admit.Mr. Yorke
l said, it was to be hoped our recent conquests would ultimately prove a saving to the country, though they would not warrant a reduction of the present Estimates. It was thought necessary to send out 28 frigates to the Indian seas, to be ready to act in the event of the Isle of France not falling into our hands. Considering the lime which must pass before they could be ordered home, it might be expected they would not arrive till the end of the year. They must be provided for in the mean time, and therefore no retrenchment could be made at present. He particularly wished to reply to the assertion of his hon. friend, that the excess of the present Estimates was between one and two millions. He apprehended he would find it was not more than 306,000lMr. Yorke
377 cordially coincided in the sentiments of the hon. gent. with respect to the persevering gallantry and extensive utility of the royal marines. By the statement of the hon. gent. it would appear as if that corps, having been once on a similar footing with the army, had recently been placed in a situation of inferior advantage. The fact was, however, that they had been many years on the same footing as that on which they were at present. Respecting promotion, it ought to be considered that the officers of the Royal Marines were not permitted to purchase any of their commissions, as the officers of the army were; but as to rank, he was much misinformed if that did not keep pace with the standing of the marine officer, and if he did not by brevet rank with the major and with the colonel of the land army. However great his sense of the merits of this valuable and highly respectable corps, yet it appeared to him, from the nature of their service, that it would be impossible, with a view to public economy, by any great increase of field officers, to place them on the
377Mr. Yorke
380379, without at present entering at large into the question, stated it to be his opinion, that the substituting of king's ships for hired transports to a certain extent, was highly advisable. Whatever might be said against this system, on the score of economy, it was so strongly recommended by the safety and expedition which attended it, that it was constantly being enlarged upon from time to time. At present there were 14 ships so employed, two of which were two deckers, and the others large frigates. It was now so arranged, that when a ship was paid off, it was asked if it could go to sea no more as a ship of war? and if it could not, whether or not it would make a troop ship, and what would be the expence? The principle had been carried so far within the last year, that 10,000 infantry had actually been transported in ships of war He flattered himself, from the present state of the service, that many difficulties which formerly stood in the way were got ever, and that they would never be revived; and he could not see why, under such circumstances, they might not continue to extend the principle. With respect to the building of ships in merchants' yards, he had to state, that for some time
380379Mr. Yorke
dsllllllllllllll375lllllllllllll374llllllllllllll373372 rose for the purpose of moving the necessary resolutions for defraying the expences of those naval grants, known by the name of the Ordinaries and Extraordinaries of the Navy; the wear and tear, including the number of seamen with the attendant expences, all the miscellaneous grants, &c. having been al-ready voted. In addition to the Ordinaries
dsllllllllllllll375lllllllllllll374llllllllllllll373372Mr. Yorke
 thought the use of ships of war instead of transports most economical. If they cost three times as much as transports, they were still ten times as cheap. The safely and expedition with which they conveyed the troops was of great consequence, and the means they afforded of frustrating the designs of the enemy could not be too highly appreciated. They had had a proof how superior they were to transports, the other day. While our transports were weather-bound at Falmouth, some men of war went out, and before the reinforcements could sail, we had information that one of those ships had entered the mouth of the Tagus.Admiral Harvey
l rose to explain one item of the Estimates. The salary of the First Lord of the Admiralty was not exactly what it appeared to be there. He then proceeded to shew the manner in which it had been formerly stated in the Estimates, end the funds from which it had been paid. He concluded by informing the House, that his right hon. friend, in consideration of his holding another situation, had declined taking the full salary, and given up annually 3,000lMr. Croker
, adverting to what had been said with respect to the detention of prize-money, stated, the complaints of every individual were attended to, however trivial the sum; and if the agent were found to have abused his trust, he was deprived of his licence.Mr. Croker
 said a fund had been formed for their relief, called the Widow's Fund, and they had certain allowances beside.Mr. R. Ward
l378 spoke strongly in favour of the system lately introduced of transporting soldiers in ships of war. He wished to know how far it had been acted upon, and what advantages it was found to possess over the old system of hiring transports? the new system he hoped would be acted upon as far as it possibly could, seeing it afforded a greater degree of safety to the troops. The next head on which he wished to speak was the practice of building king's ships in merchants' yards. He wished to know if in the present state of things it was necessary to continue the expences so incurred? It was now proposed to keep in commission six first-rate ships of the line; nine of the second, and 114 of the third; that was, six carrying above 100 guns; nine carrying above 74; and 114 carrying not under 74. Besides these, there remained in ordinary 117 sail of the line, reckoning no ships of the line that carried less than 74 guns, and including those building and repairing, in addition to a navy which would require 145,000 men to man it.—The total amount of the ships of the line in ordinary would be no less than 147. He merely wished to ask, if, under existing circumstances, it was necessary to continue to increase our navy in this proportion? At the breaking out of the war in 1793, when France had 80 sail of the line, and the fleets of Spain and Holland were opposed to us, we had but 120 sail of-the line. When hostilities last broke out after the Treaty of Amiens, France had but 50 ships of the line. Of these,
l378Mr. Huskisson
 expressed satisfaction at finding that king's ships had been made use of as much as possible. He was glad to see that every attempt was making to keep down expence, and that a considerable diminution of the number of ships in ordinary had already taken place.Mr. Huskisson
 spoke in favour of the adoption of the Naval Arsenal at North-fleet.Mr. Wilberforce
 had been informed that the widows and orphans of that valuable corps, which had been mentioned in the course of the debate, were not provided for the same as those of the navy. He wished for some information on the subject.Mr. Wilberforce
381sine qua non said he had never heard so clear and satisfactory a statement as that of the right hon. gent., and thought there was as little to observe on the present Estimates as on any that were ever produced in that House. If we had 145,000 men, an increase of expence was not to be avoided. In several of the articles there was a considerable increase of expence, but they all carried with them some public benefit worthy of the expence by which it was to be purchased. There appeared in the Estimates no unwarrantable superannuations and pensions, as had frequently been seen in former Estimates He thought it very much to the credit of the First Lord of the Admiralty, that he had employed a battalion of that corps which deserved so well of the country, within the last year, in a manner in which they had never been employed before. He hoped the plan in agitation for improving Plymouth Sound would shortly be acted upon, as it was most essential that something like good anchorage should be afforded to the convoys which assembled there. The service of the public, he thought, would not admit of ships of war being only employed as transports, as it would be attended with double expence. He could not but hope that something would be done towards making the long-talked of harbour at Northfleet. At present we had no place to receive the ships that came in from all parts of the world; and such a place, in the present state of Europe, ought to be regarded as a 381sine qua nonSir Charles Pole
 gave a further account of the delays to which he had before alluded.Sir C. Pole
394393ruse de guerre392391390389388 then rose and said, that in rising to call the
394393ruse de guerre392391390389388The Chancellor of the Exchequer
398397ll396395 rose and said:—Sir; had the right hon. gent. confined himself to the mere grant of a subsidy—and it there were no new circumstances attending the proposition at this period compared with last year—I should not, most probably, have said any thing upon the subject. His proposition however is not a naked proposition for a large subsidy to the Portuguese government, but it is accompanied by a formal stipulation of a treaty entered into between the two countries, by which Great-Britain is bound never to acknowledge any sovereign of Portugal except the legitimate heir of the unfortunate house of Braganza! Taking all these things then together, I, for my part, cannot see any limit to the carrying on this war, while this country is able to give a single shilling towards supporting one of the most extravagant plans that could possibly be proposed or adopted.—Where, I must ask, was the utility of binding the government never to acknowledge any sovereign of Portugal but the legitimate heir of the unfortunate house of Braganza? The right hon. gent. has stated that the Portuguese government are deprived of many resources they were formerly possessed
398397ll396395Mr. Ponsonby
, if the right hon. gent. were to propose such a clause, would certainly oppose it. The object of granting relief to the manufacturer would not be obtained, unless the means were afforded to the merchant of discharging his debt to the manufacturer; "or would the proposed measure benefit those who had inordinately speculated. No man would be relieved by it, who could not shew by the deposit of the articles, on the security of which the loan was to be advanced, that he had been successful in his speculation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
421 thought any recitation in the preamble, of the view of parliament, might tend to create difficulties in the execution of the trust to be reposed in the commissioners. The committee would be aware, that among the commissioners whom he had named were several of those gentlemen who had been most active as commissioners in 1793. On that occasion the commissioners had proceeded by framing general questions, to which all applicants for relief replied on oath, and thus underwent such a severe scrutiny, as to repel many improper applications. He conceived that it would be proper to compel every applicant to declare for what-purpose he wanted assistance, in order that the commissioner might know they granted money
421The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that the merchants of Liverpool would enjoy the same advantages as any other merchants who applied for relief.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
Invidiam gloriâ superasti414413412411 said, that he had listened to the speech of the hon. gent. who spoke last with great attention, but could not agree with him in the statements he had made, nor in the conclusions he had drawn. Several of the arguments he had used were such as might be applied with some propriety in the last session, but were totally inapplicable at present. Last year when the House could only proceed upon conjecture, there was naturally great variance of opinion. There was then plausible ground for the doubts and differences which agitated the minds of men. The scepticism and despondent feelings of the hon. gentlemen opposite were then in some measure authorised by the recollection that France had just concluded a peace with Austria, and was prepared to employ its whole force in the Peninsula. We had now had experience of these additional levies, and could frame our calculations upon a sure foundation. The Portuguese had shown themselves to be equal to the combat, and warranted us in entertaining a sanguine expectation of their future exertions. Under what circumstances then did his Majesty now call upon the House to renew the Grant of aid to Portugal? What last year was expectation, now was proof: what then was doubt, was now become certainty: what then was apprehension, was now confidence. The hon. gentleman had referred to speeches made on former occasions, and had, as usual, predicted evils, because he did not find them in existence. This, however, he thought, was a mode of treating the subject which came with rather a bad grace from that quarter, at the present moment, and was a species of defence very easily and very readily resorted to by those who had nothing better to set up. What had been the fate of those predictions which so boldly pronounced the unfitness of the
Invidiam gloriâ superasti414413412411Mr. Peele
417 contrasted the Committee in whose report the present measure originated, with that Committee on the same subject in 1793. The Committee of 1793 was composed of fifteen individuals, only four of whom were commercial men. The late Committee was composed of 21 individuals, two-thirds of whom were commercial men, and the other third, persons in office, or connected with office, who were therefore interested in the decision of the question. The right hon. gent. who had proposed the measure, had said, that it was a claim on the humanity rather than on the justice of the House. Now, however the House might lament the distresses of individuals, they had no right to grant the public money on such a ground. His opinion decidedly was, that although the operation of the Bill might occasion an immediate relief to those who were suffering, they would ultimately experience from it the greatest injury. The present commercial situation of the country was very different from that in which it had ever before been placed; and all arguments therefore, which assumed to be derived from experience, were futile. He did not conceive that we could calculate on any vent for our goods, either in the North American, the European, or even (except to a small extent) in the South American markets. If, however, British manufactures should find purchasers in South America, what would be the return? Precisely that produce of which our merchants already had more than they knew what to do with. It was childish policy to put off an evil which, when it did arrive, would consequently come with accumulated force. He made no doubt that the commissioners to be appointed under the act would be trust-worthy persons, and that they would not grant loans, except on the deposit of articles, which would be available to the public by sale, in the event of the incapacity of the borrowers to repay the sums advanced to them. Still, in that case, the public would be losers. Of course a considerable public loan would be soon to be raised; and was it not evident that if exchequer bills to the amount of six millions were issued to prop commercial credit, the loan would necessarily
417Lord Folkestone
418 declared, that a full consideration of the subject had induced him to change the opinion which he originally entertained. He was now convinced that the good to be derived from the proposed measure, would far outweigh the inconveniences that might attend upon it. He denied that all markets were shut against us. Many were yet open; and there was still a great demand for certain articles of our home manufacture. But the capitals of our manufacturers were so locked up in the stock on hand, that they were not enabled to make the goods which were in demand. The markets of Martinique, Guadaloupe, St. Domingo, &c. were all open to us; and the only consequence of an inconvenient nature was, that the returns were of an unproductive nature. By a change of policy, however, our returns might be rendered completely productive. If the United States persisted in enforcing the non-importation act with respect to us, we might adopt a similar measure with respect to them. At present we received indigoes, cotton, and tobacco, from the United States. If we encouraged the cultivation of these articles in the conquered colonies which we possessed, we might from them and from the Spanish colonies receive the indigoes, cotton, and tobacco, which we consumed at home, in lieu of the unproductive returns of coffee and sugar. He was satisfied that it would be of the utmost national importance, by granting a temporary relief to the merchant, to save him from being compelled to make the dreadful sacrifice of 40, 50, or 60 per cent. on his property; and by granting temporary relief to the manufacturer, to render it unnecessary for him to discharge those whom he had hitherto employed, and to enable him to manufacture those goods which were still in demand. While he was speaking on this subject be could not avoid recommending the introduction into the Bill of a clause, by which no commissioner under the act should be allowed to receive any Exchequer Bills himself, or to become security for any other individual who might be disposed to receive them.
418Mr. Marryat
419 then informed the House that it was his intention to extend the advantages of the Bill to all places where the ware housing system was carried on. He also observed, that with a view to carry into effect what was evidently the intention of the antecedent Committee, namely, to allow the borrowers to have the benefit of the dividends before the payment of their instalments, he should propose that the payment take place 15 days later than the period recommended by the Committee, Instead, therefore, of the 15th or 16th of January, he should propose that the payment be made on the 1st of February. He proceeded to read the names of those whom it was his intention to propose as commissioners under the act
419The Chancellor of the Exchequer
422 protested against the publicity recommended by the hon. gent. and observed that no part of the conduct of the commissioners in 1793, deserved, and obtained greater praise, than their honourable secrecy. As to the apprehension of the hon. gent. that the merchant would purchase the goods of the manufacturer at a depreciated price, such a sale on the part of the manufacturer would not be compulsory, as he might, if he preferred it, obtain relief from the commissioners by the deposit of his goods.422The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that having so recently detailed his objections to this proposition, he felt it to be unnecessary to repeat them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
415 was disposed to give the hon. gent. who spoke last every degree of praise for the speech with which he had come down to the House, and which was worthy of him, or of the most eloquent member in it; but he denied that it contained any answer to the arguments which had been advanced. The hon. gent. had entered into a very diffuse eulogy on lord Wellington; but he thought it might be comprised in a very short sentence, as his situation was not different from that of any other officer who might be appointed to lead the armies of his country. He defended himself against the charge of having attributed gross neglect of duty to lord Wellington in not having attacked Ney; as he, at the time alluded to, distinctly stated that there were no documents before the House which could enable them to judge of the merit of his proceedings. He had referred
415General Tarleton
 said, he held in his hand some Resolutions of the merchants of Liverpool, declaratory of their intention to apply to parliament for the aid of a million. He wished to know whether it was intended to grant an additional million for that purpose, or to allow the Liverpool merchants to partake of the six millions to be advanced by the Bill?General Tarleton
 was very willing that the manufacturers should be assisted, but conceived that the proposition of the right hon. gent would give too extensive facilities to speculation. He was anxious that the advantages of the Bill should be confined to the manufacturing interest; and if he could frame a clause to that effect, he should certainly submit it to the Committee.Mr. Tierney
 repeated his anxiety for the lesser manufacturer, who, he was persuaded, would not be paid, or, at most, paid but in part by the merchant, after the latter had obtained a loan for that purpose. Great difficulties would take place also in the due appreciation of the value of the goods which were to be pledged for the payment of the money borrowed.Mr. Tierney
420 contended that in many cases when the merchant obtained a loan, he would employ but a small part of it in the payment of his debt to the manufacturer, and particularly to the small manufacturer. It had been urged by an hon. gent. that the capital of the manufacturer was in many cases locked up, and that the receipt of Exchequer bills would enable him to manufacture such goods as were in demand. Very different, indeed, appeared to him to be the merits of the merchant and the manufacturer. The merchant having bought goods on credit from the manufacturer, sent them to South America. If the speculation proved successful, it was profitable to the speculator; if unsuccessful, the loss fell on the manufacturer. Was this the character entitled to assistance? And yet he was persuaded
420Mr. Tierney
 moved, that there be laid before the House the Minutes of the Evidence taken before the Committee on Commercial. Credit.Mr. Tierney
 was of opinion, that the preamble of the Bill might recite what was the general intention of parliament on the subject, and thus serve as a guide for the conduct of the commissioners. He certainly was desirous that the manufacturers should be the persons chiefly benefited by the proposed measure, although he was not for limiting the advantages of the measure so exclusively to the manufacturers as had been recommended by the hon. gent.Mr. H. Thornton
 said, he was prepared to defend both the grant and the treaty entered into between this country and Portugal. Upon what ground, he would ask, could we assist Portugal at all unless for the purpose of reinstating upon its throne the legitimate sovereign of the country? He would request of the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, to look to the state of the allied army in 1809, and at the present moment. The French were then in possession of all the Northern provinces of Portugal; but by the military aid sent from this country in the spring, and by the exertions which were made to reform the military establishments, a change so great had taken place, that in six weeks after the French were expelled from Portugal by lord Wellington. Another distinguished general (marshal Beresford) had also succeeded so, well in his department, by the efficient reorganization of the Portuguese army, that the tyrant of Europe was obliged to send Massena himself to retrieve what had been lost; and in September 1810, Massena found a force formed in Portugal able to repulse him: he found, besides the regular army, a militia, which, by its discipline and valour, had already taken 5,000 French prisoners. What might not this country hope from such an effort? Might it not encourage the nations of the North? Might it not encourage—might it not animate—the most insignificant to some bold attempt, and rouse Europe in general to choose the happy moment, and avail itself of the noble lesson? Portugal, as he had collected from undoubted quarters, had put on foot in the last campaign, in military array, a greater number than was ever brought into action by any of the old military governments. The proof of this fact might have the most powerful influence upon the tyrant of Europe; and other countries might be stimulated to a similar enterprize, when they found that Portugal succeeded even beyond the most sanguine expectations that could have been formed of her.Mr. Sullivan
410409408407406405404403402401400399 rose and said: Sir, It, is quite impossible I can allow this question to be put without offering a few observa-
410409408407406405404403402401400399Mr. Fremantle
 wished the Bill could be better adapted to the case. The natural course of proceeding appeared to him to be, to give a preference to those who were particularly oppressed. In the first place, to give priority to goods as a security over personal security, and then to some description of goods over others, namely, British manufactures primarily, and then colonial produce. In the present depreciation of goods in the market, he thought the public would run no risk by advancing 75 per cent upon them instead of 50 per cent. When goods were the security for a loan, he conceived that the addition of personal security would be embarrassing. He repeated, that by advancing money in the first place to those who possessed the greatest quantity of unsaleable goods, the most effectual relief would be given to the parties the most deeply distressed; but that by advancing money generally, and without distinction, but a small portion of it would reach those whom it was essential to relieve.Mr. Huskisson
 was persuaded that many merchants who would borrow money under the act for an avowed purpose, namely, to pay their debts to the manufacturers, would employ but a portion of it in that manner, and by way of speculation would purchase with the rest goods at their present depreciated value. He knew no mode of guarding against this perversion of the intention of parliament, but by giving complete publicity to the applications made to the commissioners.Mr. W. Smith
 was more strongly convinced than ever that his doubts on this subject were well founded, and that the measure would be highly injurious to the community. The present distress was of a complexion entirely different from that of 1793. It arose from over-trading, which was not then the case. The probable termination of it was most uncertain. He had no doubt that when the time for the repayment of the loans advanced should arrive, the parties would come down to the House with an application for the extension of the period of payment, on the ground that the markets for their commodities were more firmly closed than ever. Thus they would be involved in still deeper ruin, having been tempted by the proposed measure to engage in additional speculations. The injustice of the assistance which the Bill went to afford, appeared to him to be manifest; as he was persuaded that when the period of payment arrived, that period would be extended, and that this operation would be repeated until the whole sum originally advanced would ultimately be lost; the consequence would be, that Parliament would visit on the public—on unoffending and innocent individuals—the errors of inordinate speculators,Sir J. Newport
423d said, that however singular the clauses to be found in Bills of the nature of the present frequently were, there were clauses in the present Bill so unusual, as to call in a particular manner for the attention of the House. This Bill enabled the governor and master of the Spilsby Poor-house to punish at pleasure the poor under their charge, by solitary confinement, and other most severe punishments, for no reason but their having misbehaved themselves. He then proceeded to read a clause of the Bill, by which, if the poor should be guilty of profane cursing and swearing, disorderly behaviour, or riot and drunkenness, or neglecting or refusing to perform their work, they were to be punished with solitary confinement, abatement of diet, or the stocks, at the discretion of the governor. But this is not the only singular clause. The Bill also empowered the punishing for damaging the house or fences, as for a felony, or petty larceny. And what was unexampled in this country, the directors were to have a power of letting out the poor to any person, who, for his 9423dSir Samuel Romilly
432llll431llll430lll429llllll428lllll427 said, before he entered into that part of the discussion which immediately related to himself, he would observe, that though, in the main, the statements of the right hon. bart. were not very wide of the mark, yet he could not permit his resolutions, in the present state of the question, to go forth from the chair of that House to the public. A right hon. friend of his, who used occasionally to make observations on the subject of Irish finance, never brought any motion forward unless the papers connected with it were first laid on the table. In the present instance, the House were not possessed of a single paper by which their judgment might be directed. And certainly it would not be prudent to accede to the proposition, when there was no information before them, and when no notice had been given of an intention to enter into so extensive a subject. Under these circumstances, he was sure the right hon. bart. would not be surprised at his objecting to the motion, since it was not right that statements, which might ultimately prove not altogether correct,
432llll431llll430lll429llllll428lllll427Mr. Foster
433 observed, that there was a great degree of difficulty attached to the subject that had been brought before them, which nothing but a fair and candid consideration of gentlemen on both sides of the House could surmount. By that means alone could a plain view of the financial state of Ireland come under their observation. He agreed with what had fallen from his right hon. friend, who had opposed the Resolutions, on the ground that a statement, perhaps inaccurate, should not be sent forth to the country, on a subject of so much importance. He was extremely glad to hear the right hon. gent, declare, that the subject should be brought forward in a manner perfectly
433Lord Castlereagh
 was glad to find that all parties concurred in the expediency of an examination of the subject. He expressed his conviction, that the agriculture, the trade, the habitations, and the riches of Ireland had been trebled since the Union. The civilization of the country also had been considerably improved, particularly in the north of Ireland. He believed there was no country where the taxes were more cheerfully paid; and he attributed the defalcation of the revenue to negligence in the collection, and to the prevalence of illicit distillation. He hoped that the right hon. baronet would be induced to withdraw his motion, in order that the subject might be submitted to the investigation, of a Committee.Mr. May
ll observed, that both sides of the House agreed that the subject was of such importance as to render it necessary, without loss of time, to proceed to an inquiry upon it. He should regret if the right hon. baronet persevered in proposing his Resolutions, as his right hon. friend had demonstrated that even were they completely accurate (which they were not), Parliament could not entertain them at present, as they were founded on documents which were not yet in the hands of the members. The proposition therefore was premature. Another ground of objection to the Resolutions was, that they described only a part of the fact, and abstained from that counter-statement which would satisfy the country. His right hon. friend had shewn that the average revenue of the three last years in Ireland was 4,500,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
436 declared, that a matter of greater importance, or one which required more serious consideration, had never been agitated in that House. It was most material that it should be investigated at a time when the House could act on the result of that investigation; and that time must be at an early period of the session. He thought great praise due to the right hon. baronet, whose object was unquestionably gained. The attention of the House was completely attracted to this important subject, and could not be diverted from it. At the same time he should infinitely prefer the examination by a Select Committee. He trusted that no time would be lost in the appointment of that Committee, and at least that it would be formed before the Easter recess. If his opinion had any weight with the right hon. baronet, he
436Mr. Bankes
, in explanation, declared that, as soon as the motion before the House should be disposed of, it was his intention to give notice of the day on which he would move the appointment of a Committee.Mr. Foster
 said, he did not rise to touch on the situation of Ireland, or on the best course of proceeding to be adopted with respect to that country. These considerations he would postpone to the proper period. All things considered, he thought it would he advisable for his right hon. friend to withdraw his motion; but then he trusted that he would move for the immediate appointment of a Committee; or if not immediately, for the appointment of a Committee, at least not later than the end of this or the beginning of next month. As to the presence of Irish members, he did not see the necessity of waiting for their return; for he declared, that he would rather see the majority of the Committee composed of British, than of Irish members. If the appointment of the Committee were postponed until the return of all the Irish members, and until the production of all the official documents, the consequence must be, either that the Committee could come to no conclusion in the present session, or that the session must be inconveniently prolonged for the sole purpose of allowing the Committee time to make their report.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he would certainly consent to the withdrawing of the motion of the right hon. baronet, but not on the prescribed terms. He was proceeding to show that the present was not the precise time for the appointment of the Committee, when he was interrupted byThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that he certainly meant to express his dissent, if the leave was to be granted on the understanding wished for by the right hon. baronet.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 original motion being therefore withdrawn, he proceeded immediately to move, "That the several Accounts and other Papers, presented to the House, during this Session of Parliament, relative to the Public Income and Expenditure of Ireland, be referred to the consideration of a Select Committee, and that the Committee be instructed to examine into the same, and to report the same to the House."Sir J. Newport's
438 said, had he understood the question, he would not have consented to the motion being withdrawn. The motion now made appeared to him most extraordinary. The right hon. baronet had never thought of the appointment of a Committee; but on the general sense of the House appearing to be that way, his right hon. friend had said, if the right hon. baronet would withdraw his motion, he would pledge the government to propose the appointment of this Com-
438Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said, that that which appeared lately a compact on all sides, had now become a party question. These parties did them no honour. Their time was too much occupied with them; and he deprecated any dispute as to the trivial matter who was to nominate a Committee, which the House would take care was properly named.Mr. May
 said, the hon. gent, was right in thinking that these party tricks did them no credit. He bowed to the chair; but having expressed at some length his dissent to the proposition of the right hon. baronet, it was only through mistake that he deemed it unnecessary to say "No," as early on putting the question as he ought to have done. He concluded by giving a direct negative to the motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 put it to the feeling of the House, if it was not the general custom, when government were willing to take the necessary steps, that the measure should be left in their hands. He was not for delay, nor for a Committee altogether Irish. He wished for the collective sense and wisdom of the English also, as this was not a question solely affecting Ireland, but the empire at large, as if Ireland could not pay her loans, England must. On these grounds, he would move the previous question, as a mode not of objecting to the motion, but of getting rid of a course which he must say was like taking the question out of the hands of the person who originally proposed it.Mr. Foster
 did not wish to press the nomination of the Committee, on the understanding that it would be done in about a week from this time; but whoever named it, the country was indebted to the right hon. baronet alone for bringing the important topic under consideration.Mr. Bankes
 would rather have the Committee nominated to-night than agree to any injurious delay; but he saw no evil that could result from the short period proposed by his right hon. friend. In a measure on which his hopes were so sanguine, he did not wish that the House should as it were be taken by surprise, sordid it appear to him to be quite parliamentary to take the proposition out of the hand of the person most responsible.Lord Castlereagh
 seconded the motion.Lord Folkestone
 would not oppose the motion, but he thought it rather hard that the legislature should be complained of after making certain arrangements for the regulation of any trade, if the inadvertencies of individuals were punished; when the act, like that alluded to, was perfectly easy to be understood.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that the right hon. gent, ought to have marked his dissent by an audible negative.The Speaker
, who observed, that the question whether an honourable member should or should not have leave to withdraw a motion, was not debateable? If any single member dissented, leave could not be granted. The Speaker then put the question, and no dissenting voice being heard, he declared that the right hon. baronet had leave to withdraw his motion.The Speaker
444 made a further observation on the responsibility of the pamphlet printer over that of the printer of a newspaper. The former, in addition to the penalties incurred by failing to observe
444Mr. Martin
443l442dsll441lll440 rose, pursuant to a notice which he had given a few days before. He reminded the House he had then stated it to be his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill to explain and amend an Act passed in the 39th of his present Majesty, which at present was felt very heavily by printers, publishers, and others connected with the press of this country. He hoped the motion he intended to make would meet with no opposition, when his motives were known and his intentions fully understood by the House. The act in question was passed at a period when certain societies were in existence, against which it was thought necessary to guard, by preventing their privately disseminating seditious writings. The act appeared to have been passed in a moment of hurry, as it went to punish not merely the guilty, but all connected with the trade of printing. All persons acting as printers, booksellers, &c. were obliged by this act to give not only their names and residence, but the minutest particulars relative to the place of their abode. A distinct penalty was incurred by every single hand-bill or pamphlet in which the most insignificant word relating thereto was omitted. However unintentional such omission might be proved to be, no discretion was given to the magistrates to decide according, to the peculiar merits of the
443l442dsll441lll440Mr. Henry Martin
argumentum ad hominem; spoke in favour of the Bill, for he thought what had been stated was argumentum ad hominem;Mr. Henry Smith
 declared that he did not know such clauses were in the Bill, or he certainly would not have moved the second reading. He did not believe the hon. members for Boston and for Derby, who had taken charge of the Bill, and in whose absence he moved, were acquainted with what had been stated by the hon. and learned gent. He should, therefore, in order to give the parties an opportunity to consider this extraordinary Bill, move, That it be read a second time that day se'nnight.—Which was agreed to.Sir James Graham
 having moved the second reading of the Bill for the relief and regulation of the Poor of the parish of Spilsby, and other parishes and places in the parts of Lindsey, in the county of Lincoln,Sir James Graham
 was of opinion that some distinction ought to be made between papers and pamphlets of a pernicious tendency, and those of a different description.Mr. D. Giddy
 contended, that the provisons of the act might not be so easily known by those whom they might affect, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to think. He had just had a paper put into his hands, which had been issued by the right hon. gentleman himself, which was liable to be affected by the provisions of the act, and it was probable that he had incurred the penalties imposed by the act, in a thousand similar instances.Mr. W. Smith
437 was for the early appointment of a Committee, and for impacting, to
437Mr. W. Smith
l434 did not wish to omit this opportunity of giving his opinion on the whole system of Irish Finance; and the more so, as he would not confine his view to a few late occurrences, but embrace the whole period since the Union promoted by the noble lord. At the Union the noble lord had presented certain calculations to the Irish parliament, as the foundation of a ratio of contribution and expenditure between the countries. In all of these, in his opinion, his lordship had been mistaken; and in fixing the ratio at the proportion of Ireland to England as 1 to 9 in war, and 1 to 5 (which he afterwards changed to 7½) in peace, he had contributed to all those evils and embarrassment which now oppressed the former country. On these premises it appeared that Ireland had been paying a greater proportion than she ought to have done,
l434Mr. Parnell
 was for the appointment of the Committee as early as possible, as if it was put off, the opportunity for this important investigation would come too late to be of service to the country.Mr. R. Shaw
439 read the names he meant to propose, to shew that he had not been guided in his nomination by any thing
439Sir J. Newport
slsllll4." That the expenses of collection and management of the revenues of Ireland have advanced in a most striking degree, particularly since the year 1807. That the amount of deductions on this account from the revenue, customs, excise, and inland taxes of Ireland, in its passage to the Exchequer, has risen from 416,000slsllll4263. "That for this failure of estimated
426lll2." That the various plans submitted to, and adopted by parliament, for raising the amount of the Irish Revenue by increased taxation, to defray the Irish quota of expenditure, or even to make due provision for discharging the interest of the loans, have totally failed to answer the desired object, inasmuch as the net revenue of 1810 is 800,000lllllls1. "That the Funded Debt of Ireland has nearly trebled within ten years, and amounted, on the 5th of January 1811, to 89,72llls
slsllll4." That the expenses of collection and management of the revenues of Ireland have advanced in a most striking degree, particularly since the year 1807. That the amount of deductions on this account from the revenue, customs, excise, and inland taxes of Ireland, in its passage to the Exchequer, has risen from 416,000slsllll4263. "That for this failure of estimated
426lll2." That the various plans submitted to, and adopted by parliament, for raising the amount of the Irish Revenue by increased taxation, to defray the Irish quota of expenditure, or even to make due provision for discharging the interest of the loans, have totally failed to answer the desired object, inasmuch as the net revenue of 1810 is 800,000lllllls1. "That the Funded Debt of Ireland has nearly trebled within ten years, and amounted, on the 5th of January 1811, to 89,72lllslllllll425**ll14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements
14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements21,00035,000Letters, tee.
21,00035,000Letters, tee.80,00085,000Window Duty
80,00085,000Window Duty2,80010,000Currants and Raisins
2,80010,000Currants and Raisins33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty
33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Wines
£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Winesproduced only
produced only
14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements
14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements21,00035,000Letters, tee.
21,00035,000Letters, tee.80,00085,000Window Duty
80,00085,000Window Duty2,80010,000Currants and Raisins
2,80010,000Currants and Raisins33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty
33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Wines
£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Winesproduced only
produced only*lllll424l rose to call the attention of the House to the financial situation of Ireland, which was unproductive in respect to its revenue. The light hon. baronet read that part of the Speech of the Lords Commissioners which admitted that the revenue was deficient, and he stated that he should prove it was totally unable to meet the charges of the Public Debt; that in point of fact, the revenue was now deficient 650,000slsllll4." That the expenses of collection and management of the revenues of Ireland have advanced in a most striking degree, particularly since the year 1807. That the amount of deductions on this account from the revenue, customs, excise, and inland taxes of Ireland, in its passage to the Exchequer, has risen from 416,000slsllll4263. "That for this failure of estimated
426lll2." That the various plans submitted to, and adopted by parliament, for raising the amount of the Irish Revenue by increased taxation, to defray the Irish quota of expenditure, or even to make due provision for discharging the interest of the loans, have totally failed to answer the desired object, inasmuch as the net revenue of 1810 is 800,000lllllls1. "That the Funded Debt of Ireland has nearly trebled within ten years, and amounted, on the 5th of January 1811, to 89,72llls
slsllll4." That the expenses of collection and management of the revenues of Ireland have advanced in a most striking degree, particularly since the year 1807. That the amount of deductions on this account from the revenue, customs, excise, and inland taxes of Ireland, in its passage to the Exchequer, has risen from 416,000slsllll4263. "That for this failure of estimated
426lll2." That the various plans submitted to, and adopted by parliament, for raising the amount of the Irish Revenue by increased taxation, to defray the Irish quota of expenditure, or even to make due provision for discharging the interest of the loans, have totally failed to answer the desired object, inasmuch as the net revenue of 1810 is 800,000lllllls1. "That the Funded Debt of Ireland has nearly trebled within ten years, and amounted, on the 5th of January 1811, to 89,72lllslllllll425**ll14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements
14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements21,00035,000Letters, tee.
21,00035,000Letters, tee.80,00085,000Window Duty
80,00085,000Window Duty2,80010,000Currants and Raisins
2,80010,000Currants and Raisins33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty
33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Wines
£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Winesproduced only
produced only
14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements
14,60030,000Receipts and advertisements21,00035,000Letters, tee.
21,00035,000Letters, tee.80,00085,000Window Duty
80,00085,000Window Duty2,80010,000Currants and Raisins
2,80010,000Currants and Raisins33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty
33,00060,000Additional Tea Duty£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Wines
£.44,000£.100,000The Duties on Winesproduced only
produced only*lllll424lSir John Newport

 would not take up the time of the House by answering the many observations which had been made in the course of the evening, and which were capable of refutation, but would consent, with the leave of the House, to withdraw his motion, on the direct understanding that he should be at liberty immediately to move the appointment of a Select Committee.Sir J. Newport
467 would state, as shortly as possible, the reasons which made him feel it his duty to oppose the motion of the noble lord. The noble lord had founded his proposition on two distinct grounds; the one, certain proceedings which took place in the courts of Madras two years ago; the other, the general principles respecting the press, which, in his lordship's opinion, applied equally to this country and to India. With respect to the first of these grounds, he had to complain of the noble lord for introducing the subject on the present occasion; the House being aware that the whole of the proceedings on the trials at Madras were already ordered to be laid on the table, till which period any agitation of the question was premature with respect to the general reasoning, the noble lord, while he professed not to found his motion on any condemnation of the regulations by which the press was restrained in India, asserted that any restraint on the liberty of the press in India was improper. [Lord A. Hamilton observed, that he had not said so.] Such was certainly the impression made on his mind by the remarks of the noble lord. As to the liberty of the press, surely no man could be so wild as seriously to entertain an opinion that the principles which were applicable to that liberty in England were alike applicable to it in India. The noble lord asked for the rules which existed on the subject. Now really, with the exception of the regulations regarding newspapers, which the noble lord had read, he did not believe there existed any written regulations respecting the press in India. He would, however, ask, the noble lord, whether he thought it would be wise to sanction the unrestrained publication of all matters whatever in the newspapers of India? [Lord A. Hamilton:" No, but no censorship."]—Without some censorship there would be danger. Could any thing be considered more perilous than to spread opinions of all kinds whatever throughout the whole of Hindostan? A government that permitted such a practice would be most negligent and unjustifiable. Let it be recollected, that no European could be in India but either in the service of the company or by the licence of the company. Was it not perfectly just, therefore, to say to an individual there—to a printer, for instance, at Madras, "If you do not conform to the regulations of the government, you must withdraw from India." Suppose a clerk in
467Mr. Dundas
468 declared, that had any previous doubt existed in his mind as to the propriety of producing the paper moved for by his noble friend, the observations of the right hon. gent. would have completely removed it. The right hon. gent. asserted, that the East India company had a right to bind their servants by their own regulations. This might be true; but if those regulations were of so paramount a nature that every individual became bound by them, independent of every other consideration or principle, then was it, in his judgment, most necessary that the House should know what those regulations were; and when it was recollected that they related to India, he thought that circumstance was in itself sufficient to give great reason for jealousy and distrust on the part of the House. He denied that those stated by his noble friend were the sole regulations, as the right hon. gent. seemed erroneously to think they were. Neither did he think it fair of that
468Lord Folkestone
 admitted the necessity of regulations, and acknowledged that a press in India, wholly unrestrained, might be productive of great mischief. But the matter for complaint was, not that regulations were imposed on men before they went out, to which they previously and voluntarily acceded, but that after they had gone out, they found they had to struggle with innovations superinduced upon those regulations, to which they had not only not voluntarily assented, but of which they had not had any idea.Mr. Howarth
 observed, that the last speaker had avowed, that the object was, to keep the people of India in darkness as to the nature of their government. The more important, therefore, it was, that this House should take care, that our government there, such as it was, should be well administered. He would certainly vote for the motion.Mr. Hutchinson
 contended that despotism had not been established there by England, but that it had been found there, where it had existed for many ages. The introduction of the liberty of the press might lead to the most fatal consequences, and in the present slate of things, would unhinge the whole frame of Indian society. He did not think any case had been made out for the production of the paper.Mr. Grant
 observed that the government of India had been acquired, like most other governments, partly by conquest, partly by compact, and partly by forfeiture. Under these circumstances, to allow of the unrestrained liberty of the press would be dangerous. Their situation, however, was not such as it had been said to be; for though they did not enjoy a tree government, they were governed by persons who were responsible to this country, and answerable for their conduct to that House. He thought the motion had been brought forward merely as a compliment to the abstract liberty of the press. He was a friend to that liberty, and though it should run into some excesses (and some licentious strides even in this country he thought it had taken), he was far from wishing to impose any new-restriction. The liberty of the press had done much good; it had also been in some instances, a source of the most tremendous evils. It had been spoken of as that which ought not to be discussed. From its magnitude and importance, he thought it ought often to be brought under their consideration. He remembered what had taken place in the National Assembly of the island of St. Domingo, where, in consequence of the attempt to extend the liberty of the press, the most dreadful scenes occurred. Those who were to be benefited by it, rose and massacred their friends indiscriminately with their foes, and at length succeeded in making themselves sovereigns of the island. Such might be the consequences of the introduction of the liberty of the press in India.Mr. Lockhart
 thought the arguments of the hon. gent. were by no means sufficient to justify the production of the paper. Gentlemen should remember that the liberty of the press was not withheld merely from the principles of the government, but from the dispositions of the natives themselves. They were in that state that it might do them much harm, though if they were less ignorant it might be expected to be productive of the greatest good. He was glad his right hon. friend had so well explained away what had been said of withholding from the natives the light of Christianity, No such disposition existed, but it was wisely thought that government should abstain from openly exerting itself to further the cause of Christianity, lest they should be represented to the people as attempting to impose upon them a new religion. On all occasions when papers were moved for in that House, he thought a better reason should be given, than that they were desired out of curiosity; and the paper required by the noble lord ought not, in his opinion, to be given, as if they were to grant it without any substantial reason for its production having been given, they would seem to admit that there appeared grounds for censuring the government of India.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
476 would vote against the motion. He was not aware that the. power entrusted to the government of India had
476Mr. Johnstone
 then moved for the appointment of a Select Committee on India Affairs, which he proposed should consist of the same members as before, with only two exceptions, the one, that of an hon. gentleman who could not attend, and the other that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was likewise prevented from attendance.—The two new members he mentioned were Mr. Porcher and Mr. De Ponthieu.Mr. Dundas
 said, he had on a former night been asked that question, and he had then answered that it was.Mr. Dundas
 explained. He was not for withholding front the natives of India the light of Christianity; he only wished to keep that from them which would lead to tumultuous proceedings.Mr. R. Dundas
 read over several of the names—Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Tierney, Mr. Sturges Bourne, Mr. Fitzhugh, Lord Morpeth, Mr. Long, Mr. Creevey, &c. &c. and asked what particular bias they could have against the truth? Lord Folkestone, and Mr. Whitbread supported the amendment. Mr. Wallace and Mr. Grant Opposed it. The House divided,Mr. Dundas
475 said, that after the very able manner in which his motion had been supported, it would be unnecessary for him to trespass further on the time of the House, than merely to make one or two observations on some arguments from the other side of the House. He had to make one general complaint of almost all the gentlemen who had opposed him, that they had thought proper not only to impute to him what he had not said, but what he had actually disclaimed. He had disclaimed distinctly, and repeatedly, all
475Lord A. Hamilton
465464463 said, that in rising to submit his motion for copies of all orders and regulations respecting the Press in India, he felt it necessary to state not only what his object was, but what his object was not. It was not his intention in that instance to find fault with any of the regulations to which his motion referred; nor was it his intention, to suggest to the House any measure so incompatible with the nature of our government in India, as a free press. He, therefore, desired it might not be imputed to him. in this night's debate, that his motion was intended to embrace any such object, He had, indeed, formed an opinion upon, that subject—and felt no difficulty in declaring, that if the paper he now moved for was produced, and if it should be found to contain such regulations upon the press, as he was led to believe it would exhibit, he might possibly think some future attention to this subject advisable. But his motion of this night, was not of any such nature. All he now asked for was information, that an opportunity might be afforded to himself, and the members of that House, of knowing what were the laws upon this subject, which prevailed for our fellow subjects in India, and upon what authority those laws rested—and what was the penalty of transgression.—The trials which had lately taken place at Madras, had certainly created a considerable
465464463Lord Archibald Hamilton
 approved of the present system, and thought any innovation that might be made would be very dangerous to the interests of this country. He, however, could have wished the trial in question had been allowed to be published, as it might have prevented the introduction of a report of it into this country, which he had been given to understand was spurious.Sir H. Montgomery
474473 said, the hon. gent. who had just spoken, had mentioned the licentiousness of the press, and observed that it had even in this country taken some strides. He (Mr. Whitbread) was also of opinion that it had taken some strides, but those strides appeared to him to be taken backwards. If the hon. gent. looked back to what had been published many years ago, and compared those publications with what issued from the press at the
474473Mr. Whitbread
 had understood him to say that to attempt to do away the laws and the superstitions of Hindostan would be improper.Mr. Whitbread
 complained that the Committee was so formed as to prevent any report except such as would be agreeable to the government and the East India company. The Committee was only an adjournment of the Directors and Board of Controul up stairs. They never gave information except when they wanted money. Their maxim was, give us all the money we want, or we shall force it from you, and call you all the names we can invent into the bargain. After some further observations on this political farce, he moved, as an amendment, That the Committee should inquire into the conduct of the Directors and of the Board of Controul in the management of Indian Affairs.Mr. Creevey
d did not think that the noble lord had made out his argument in support of the present motion, even upon his own grounds. The noble lord had laid it down as the grounds of his motion, that the regulations were illegal and unjust. This had by no means been made out: still less had it been established that the refusal of permission to publish the trials at Madras had been an undue and inexpedient exercise of power. The hon. baronet had denied that permission had been asked: he begged leave to correct him in that statement, and to assure him, on the best authority, that permission had been asked. There were other reasons justifying the suppression of that publication: one trial took place on the 11th of January, another upon the 2dMr. Wallace
470469 observed, that certainly the noble mover had abstained from directly condemning the government of India, and only wished for the regulations which that government had promulgated. He might ask what right parliament had to demand the rules which the government of India chose to establish for the guidance of their own servants? The noble lord who had just spoken, however, went further than the noble mover; and urged, as a ground for consenting to the motion, the injustice and oppression of the Indian government. To accede to the motion, therefore, would be to accede to the proposition, that the government of India had been unjust and oppressive; and this without any case whatever of public hardship or individual suffering having been made out. There was not an European in India who was not aware of the engagements into which he entered before he entered into them; and that if he did not choosy to comply with those engagements, the term of his residence in India was at an end. As to the regulations which respected the publication of newspapers, he would ask any one who was at all acquainted with India, whether ah unrestrained publication could there with safety be permitted? Was this unrestrained publication to be allowed for the purpose of permitting one set of the servants of the Company to illuminate another set of those servants? Suppose a secretary of the admiralty in this country were to set up a newspaper, for the purpose of discussing the public conduct of a lord of the treasury, could any thing be more absurd? But perhaps this unrestrained publication of newspapers in India, was for the purpose of illuminating the natives. Was this exactly desirable? Would it be very expedient to inform them of the peculiar tenure by which the British government
470469Sir John Anstruther
 supported the motion, and thought no one reason had been given why the paper should not be granted.Sir J. Newport
471 was not surprised at hearing the language which had been used by those who opposed this motion: such language was altogether worthy of the country in which the governors were every thing, and the governed nothing. The absurdity was to speak at all of freedom of discussion, or the liberty of the press, when India was the subject. The liberty of the press in India! "Risum teneatis, amici?" As if a plant of such celestial growth could flourish in the sterile soil of despotism! Under any such a system of government discussion was indeed to be avoided. Nothing could be more dangerous than freedom of discussion under a government founded upon blood and supported by injustice. As wisely might the liberty of the press be established at Tunis or Algiers, where the government was not inferior to that of ours in India. He had no hesitation in avowing it as his opinion, that there was as much liberty enjoyed under the government of the dey of Algiers, or the emperor of Morocco, as by the natives under the British government in India. Therefore must any discussion be dangerous that could open their eyes to their present state, or make them reflect that the British were but one million, while they were sixty millions. But if the regulations were, as they had been, approved of by gentlemen opposite, he wished to know why they were so reluctant to produce them? He thought, that as rules and regulations affecting such a portion of the British empire, they ought to be promulgated; if, however, they were so wise and salutary, and beneficial as they were said to be, what possible objection could there be to the motion of the noble lord, who only called for their production? The usual parliamentary objection, that voting for their production implied a cen-
471Sir Thomas Turton
l482llllll481 said, it had struck him as an, extraordinary circumstance that no distribution bad taken, place for ten years, On
l482llllll481Mr. Rose
486 denied that he had mentioned 9,000 cases of abuse. He had stated that that number of cases had been registered by him; that 600 had been carefully investigated, and that some abuses had been discovered; but none had been attributable to the Admiralty Court. It was impossible for that Court to drag parties forward against their will. In the whole of the cases which he had examined, there was not an instance in which blame was attributable to any officer of the Admiralty Court, much less to the Judge. The
486Mr. Rose
l then moved, that a sum not exceeding 482,025lMr. Wharton
l492 wished to know from the hon. gent. what sum would be necessary
l492Mr. Banks
llll replied, that the whole sum necessary for those particular barracks would be 131,000llllMr. Wharton
llll hoped the hon. gent. would not come unprepared with his information when the Report was brought up. He noticed one of the items respecting the barracks at Winchester, in which a sum of 15,000llllMr. Bankes
l noticing the warmth which his hon. friend had betrayed, when requiring satisfactory information, conceived that the anger and passion which he had exercised towards his hon. friend (Mr. Wharton) was not called for. He assured his hon. friend that every attention to economy, and to the curtailing of expences, in the barrack department, was paid by the head of it (Mr. Osborne Markham), at the same time, his hon. friend might perhaps find, that he had not been so accurately informed as he seemed to imagine. Considering the rise in the price of materials since the barracks at Winchester were begun, the difference of 7,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 denied that he had used either warmth or anger when desiring information, nor did he wish to reflect on the barrack board; he would give his testimony of approbation to the public conduct of Mr. Markham.Mr. Bankes
 was well assured that his hon. friend would not have assumed the dictatorial tone which he had assumed, unless he had been put off his guard. He was glad, however, to extract from him the acknowledgment of the merit of the head of the barrack department.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
prima facie said he agreed in the panegyric pronounced upon the learned Judge of the Court of Admiralty; but still he could not agree that the hon. baronet was wrong in bringing forward a case of this description which afforded a prima facieMr. Johnstone
prima facie490 said, the hon. member who had just sat down, had told them that the Court of Appeal required reform, and yet, he also told them, what certainly redounded not a little to the honour of that Court, that in a time of war, when additional causes were perpetually flowing in, the number of arrears had been reduced. It was proper to state what was the fact. The arrears were so far reduced that at present not more than twenty-five causes were in the court, which was, properly speaking, no arrear at all. The grievances which he stated neutrals to labour under no longer exist, and directly the reverse was the fact. In attempting, therefore, to reform a Court that had had the vigour to wipe away so great an arrear, they might alter, but could hardly amend it. It seemed rather strange to him that the hon. gent. should think
prima facie490The Chancellor of the Exchequer
491 said, that they had heard from the Treasurer of the Navy of the existence of abuses, for the detection of which that gentleman doubtless very deservedly took credit. Whatever might be due to the Treasurer of the Navy and to the right hon. Judge for the measures of reform introduced by them, be had no doubt that much also was due to the gallant admiral who on former occasions had frequently brought these subjects before the House. It would not be easy perhaps to persuade gentlemen of the learned professions, and particularly the learned master in chancery, of the evils of delay. Though these gentlemen might panegyrize one another, as was quite common on occasions like the present, though the commendation might be deserved, this was altogether beside the question. What was it to the gentlemen of the navy or seamen, that the Judge of the Admiralty was possessed of so great ability, and was so free from blame, when they were, notwithstanding, oppressed with a ruinous delay. For the delay of 12 years perhaps nobody was to blame, and the hon. bart. imputed no blame to any one. The country was, however, greatly indebted to persons who like the hon. bart. exposed themselves to obloquy by bringing forward grievances. Whether these grievances were real or imaginary, it was generally seen that some amelioration was the result of the inquiry, whoever might afterwards take credit for: that amelioration. The right hon. gent. and the Treasurer of the Navy were there-
491Sir Francis Burdett
 put it to the Committee, whether he had failed in giving the necessary information. He was not used to be talked to in the dictatorial manner which the hon. gent. had evinced; his tone and manner (and he hoped in saying so, he did not speak unparliamentary) were such as was not fit to address towards him. He had distinctly stated that the sums alluded to were the estimated sums, and not for any work in progress.Mr. Wharton
 was afraid, that both the reasons which were supposed to have led to the present difficulties in the commercial world, were to be traced to the same cause; and that the violent trading to South America, which was supposed to be the principal reason of the present stagnation, arose from the shutting up of the ancient markets in Europe, in consequence of the steps taken by this country, and by our enemy. If this was the case, the present Bill could produce no effectual relief, but only served to put off the evil day. What chance was there of having the ancient markets of Europe opened? There was surely none. We therefore, by the present measure, only held out to the emperor of France an assurance that his plans had been successful, and thus induced him to persevere in them. The least part of the disadvantage to the country likely to result from the present Bill, would be the loss of the money advanced by the public. We had a far greater misfortune than that to contemplate. By this measure the House prevented the manufacturers and others, who ware the objects of the present Bill, and who now suffered from the glut of the foreign market, and in consequence of being excluded from the markets of Europe, from turning their capitals to other more important sources of internal improvement, from which both the individuals themselves, and the country as a nation, must derive infinitely greater advantages than from any trade or commerce whatever.Mr. Lambe
 agreed with the hon. gentleman, that it would be better if commissioners and members of parliament were not allowed to claim relief under the Bill; but he could not agree with the last hon. gentleman that all the markets were shut. There were still a great many open to our merchants. The grand benefit which the Bill had in view was to keep the operative labourers at work, and therefore was highly desirable and beneficial.Mr. Marryatt
l477 said it had been his intention on a former day to move for the sum necessary for the Ordinaries of the Navy, which he had divided into three parts, under one resolution. This, however, through a mistake, bad not been done;
l477Mr. Yorke
496 was of opinion that the epithets "rash and improvident" were too freely bestowed on several classes of British merchants, whose conduct had not been such as justly to subject them to such an imputation. He thought that there was no class of merchants to whom the proposed relief could extend to whom it ought not to extend, and it appeared to
496Mr. Hibbert
488487, when he considered the nature and tendency of such charges preferred against the Admiralty Court—while he subscribed to the opinion that they might produce mutiny, riot, and blow the world into a flame, as the honourable admiral had expressed it, he could not forbear following up what had been so distinctly said by his right, hon. and learned friend, with a few remarks within his own knowledge. Nobody had charged the hon. admiral with having done any thing unparliamentary; though he should hope that what was unfair, inexpedient, and dangerous, could not be very parliamentary. But if it was parliamentary to have made the charge, he trusted, unfounded as it was, that it was equally parliamentary to repel it. He really thought that, after the candid, temperate, full and clear explanation given by his right hon. and learned friend, the hon. admiral himself would have felt himself bound to be the first in apologizing for the error into which he had fallen. Considering the consequences that might result from precipate charges of this nature, he thought the hon. admiral would have seen the propriety of making inquiry before he brought them forward in this public manner, and at a time when those were not in the House who could have given the requisite answer. Whatever might be required by strict parliamentary form, he apprehended that this would have been but fair and candid, as well as polite. What was the charge? Why, that the gallant seamen who had fought under lord Duncan, had been kept out of their prize-money, the reward of their valour, for 12 years, in consequence of the delays of the court of admiralty—and upon this point, notwithstanding the complete explanation of the
488487Mr. Stephen
 said, he held that the hon. gent. had taken a false view of what had fallen from him: he had charged him with having applied epithets to the hon. baronet, which he applied only to the course which the hon. bart, recommended.Mr. Croker
 agreed that it would produce benefits, but of a very different nature from those alluded to by the hon. baronet. The charge had been brought forward, and refuted to the satisfaction of almost every one in the House; and it was not surprising that the hon. baronet, who prided himself so much on standing alone, should felicitate the gallant admiral upon his singularity also. He insisted that the delay was occasioned by the officers and sailors of the navy.Mr. Croker
 said, that alter the tone and manner of the hon. gent. who had just sat down, it was impossible to remain quite silent. It was rather an odd charge to make against the hon. baronet, to say, that he was so fond of solitude himself, it was no wonder that he should congratulate another upon being so; but the hon. gent. should have recollected, that one and one make two, and that if they both agreed, they were neither of them likely to be solitary. He confessed that the explanation of the learned Judge, as far as his information on such subjects enabled him to decide, was satisfactory; but the hon. baronet had done much good to the country and the navy, and should not confess that he was wrong if he did not feel it nor offer praise where he did not believe it to be due. He held that the hon. gent. had taken a false view of what had fallen from the hon. baronet.Mr. Whitbread
495l494 rose and stated, that though the time of night at which this motion was made, the nature of the debate which had preceded it, and the state of the House, were all extremely discouraging circumstances, still he could not be persuaded to suffer the present Bill to pass without stating what were his impressions on the subject; and he also thought himself in candour bound to say, having no wish to take gentlemen on the other side by surprise, that he should take the sense of the House upon it, if the House should be in a state to admit of that being done. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not done what he ought to have done, and what he understood, that he had promised to do. He had omitted to introduce a clause into the Bill, restraining the commissioners and also all persons who were members of that House, from participating in the benefits to be derived from the Bill. The Commissioners might be restrained from any such participation, by a feeling of duty, but still a clause to that effect could not be the less proper. To his conception too, members of that House should be excluded, even in a constitutional point of view. If not, this was a new way of creating influence for the crown. He did not impute to the right hon. gent. any idea of influence having been used by him to introduce this mea-
495l494Mr. Whitbread
 thought the hon. gent. and the House were entitled to satisfactory information, before they voted such large sums of the public money.Mr. Whitbread
489 said, that after the clear, manly, and eloquent explanation of the right hon. Judge of the Court of Admiralty he was perfectly satisfied, as he hoped the country and navy would also be. The interests of the navy, he allowed, should be held most dear, and watched over with great vigilance, but the gallant Admiral would be found in the present, as in former cases, to have been led into mistake by his zeal. The hon. baronet had laid it down as a principle, that delay was an abuse; but to him it appeared that there
489Mr. Fremantle
 said, he had admitted that the ships had been condemned in 1799, but still the fact was undeniable, that, to this day, the seamen had not got their money.Sir C. Pole
485484483 said, if either of the right hon. gentlemen opposite, who thought proper to complain so loudly this night, had been in their places when he delivered his sentiments on the Navy Estimates, they would have seen with how little justice they now attacked him; he had then stated, with a feeling of extreme satisfaction, the correctness and œconomy with which those estimates had been calculated; they would have heard him ex press his thanks, at the clear and per spicuous manner in which they had been explained to the Committee; they might have heard him pay his humble tribute of applause to the First Lord of the Admiralty, for several other measures, which
485484483Sir Charles Pole
 said, he hoped the explanation given would be satisfactory to the country, but it was not so to him; for no explanation could be satisfactory in accounting for a delay of twelve years. If he had suffered the case to pass unnoticed, he should have been guilty of neglecting his duty.Sir C. Pole
480479478 rose in consequence of a charge which had been preferred on a former day against the Court over which he had the honour to preside. Considering the situation in which he stood, he thought justice should make every member who might have any charge to prefer against him, in his official capacity, give notice of such an intention. Out of the multitude of causes which had come before him, it was impossible for him to remember every individual case; and if such notice were not given, he might be taken by surprise, and be unable to reply to such charge when made, though it might be as unfounded as those which he had formerly refuted, or as unfounded as he trusted to make that now brought forward appear. That it was a great many years since the prizes to which allusion had been made were taken, it was unnecessary to call witnesses to prove. He remembered the captures, which were six in number, were made in the year 1799. This he would admit, but this was not sufficient to prove that any improper delay had originated in the Admiralty Court. The delay might have been caused by the parties themselves, as was the case in a cause which had been before him that very day. It might happen, that such delays had occurred in a variety of instances, where no party whatever could be blamed. It was to be remembered, that the suitors were persons employed in the service of their country, who might be at such a distance that they could not be communicated with on the subject; or merchants residing in foreign parts. The witnesses necessary to elucidate the business might be in the same situation—might be dispersed all over the world. From these circumstances delay was often unavoidable, and little as it was desired, without it no correct administration of justice could be obtained. The Court of Admiralty sat not merely for the purpose of examining the claims which might be made for prize-money, but likewise to protect foreign and British merchants; to restore property which had been improperly seized, and to do justice to ail parties. It might sometimes happen, and it frequently did, that some of the parties concerned were resident in Silesia, in Bavaria, in Bohemia, and in the remotest parts of the globe. It was certainly desirable that the money to be distributed
480479478Sir William Scott
499, after expressing the high opinion which he had ever entertained of the genius and talents of the right hon. gent, who had just sat down, observed, that there were two grounds on which the motion submitted to the House might be supported. The first was the great recent increase of the population of the metropolis, and the second, the great and notorious embarrassments in which the property of the Drury-lane proprietors was involved. He believed the neglect of rebuilding that Theatre arose solely from inability. Convinced, however, as he was, that it would never again hold up its head, yet, if there was every reason to believe the contrary, the argument for a new Theatre would be equally strong. As to what had been said of the prerogative of the crown, it could not be contended that it was not necessary for the subject matter of prerogative to be as ancient as the prerogative itself. The number of play-houses was originally limited by Act of Parliament, to prevent the licentiousness which their number was supposed to encourage. If the evidence should now be the other way, an Act of Parliament must be the proper mode of establishing a different regulation. At the period of the Usurpation, all stage-plays were prohibited; at the Restoration they were opened again; and, as appeared from Mr. Hume's History, much licen-
499Mr. Browne
l503 opposed the Bill, upon the ground that no general or special reasons had been stated to shew the propriety of any legislative measure on the subject. No evidence was produced to prove that seats had been sold since the late act. For many years past the practice had been gradually decreasing; and there was more purity now in election cases, than in the boasted times of our ancestors. He could tell of some of their practices calculated to make their posterity blush for them, whether the conduct of their posterity would have made them start back with horror or not. In the case of Ashburton, in 1707, a motion was made in the House that the right of election was in the holders of land and tenements of the said borough only. An amendment was moved that the word "only" be left out. A ballot was called for—the clerks, with two of the members, went round with a box, into which the rest of the members put their balls. There had been a gradual improvement since. In 1807 no bribery had been proved before any of the committees; and treating was almost at an end.—He said that no cases could be produced to shew the necessity of the repeal of the bribery act, and, before the House could proceed to repeal it, it was necessary to state such necessity.—With regard to the clause respecting evidence, and which did not allow a witness to protect himself upon self-crimination, he was astonished that the hon. gent. who was bred up to the law
l503Mr. Johnstone
l501 in rising to move for the second reading of the Election Bribery Bill, deprecated the idea that this was a subject too delicate to be touched. He referred to the act lately passed, the provisions of which were not adequate to the purpose for which it was intended, as it was a notorious fact that seats in that House had been sold since. The only change it effected was that of sending the purchaser to the principal, and taking the traffic out of the hands of subordinate agents. The penalties attached to selling seats were now sufficient, but the difficulty of detecting them was still great; to remedy which he would propose, that those persons who had been bribed, and who came forward as evidence against the briber, should be indemnified against all consequences. He had seen members of that House give evidence against those they bribed. Another principle which he thought it would be right to adopt was, that of enabling a committee of that House to compel an answer to its questions, even from persons who were themselves concerned. The third provision
l501Mr. C. W. Wynn
507 thought it impossible to look at the subject, without seeing that there was great room far improvement in the election law. It was not sufficient for the House, however, lo be convinced that there was this, that, and the other thing, to censure. They were to look at the question narrowly, and to see that in their desire for improvement they did not introduce an abuse rather than a remedy. He particularly objected to the clause, by which a person was compelled to make a disclosure of an offence in which he himself was implicated. This was lo oblige a jury to give credit to a person so circumstanced, whether he might be swearing true or false; and, at the same time, to leave the party against whom he complained completely at his mercy. He had only to name a time and place when no person
507Mr. Morris
 replied, that the Estimate was before the House.Mr. Foster
 said that as the two returns had been received together, he supposed he had taken up one of their first, which led to the censure which appeared in the report of which he avowed himself to be the author. At the same time he wished to state, that he was not disposed to retract what he had said, because he was of opinion that the returns were made in such a way as if they wished to keep back a part of the truth.Mr. Bankes
 said, that it appeared to him that the statement made by his right hon. friend was most satisfactory. The returns made by the Board of Works appeared to have been made with an anxious desire to give every possible information to the Committee. If their object had been, as it was insinuated, to conceal the details of the expenditure, they certainly had taken the most extra-ordinary means of doing it, for they had accounted for every sixpence that had been laid out. He was quite sure that a return from any other part of the United Kingdom would not be described as a specimen of a dexterous attempt at concealment, merely because it contained all the information that had been required, and that could possibly be given.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l next moved the resolution for Maynooth College, granting a sum not exceeding 8,973lMr. Foster
ldss513dll said he could not help expressing his astonishment to hear, after a series of grants, each of which had been more or less encreased, the estimate for Maynooth College, even less than the ordinary one. He knew, and the minister for Ireland he believed knew also, that that estimate in every respect fell short of the necessities of the institution: instead of lessening what was already too small, it would have better become that government which had begun by diminishing the original grant of 13,000ldss513dllMr. Hutchinson
l thought a larger sum ought to be granted, and would move, that the sum of 13,000lMr. Herbert
514, before the House resumed, wished to ask a question of the right hon. gent. opposite. It had been strongly rumoured, that he (Mr. Foster) was about to quit his high official situation. He wished to know, if it was in the contemplation of government, in the event of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland becoming vacant, to abolish that office altogether, or to fill it with another officer?—(Loud cries of Order!)514Mr. Hutchinson
 thought the hon. gent. was not in order, and therefore he should only answer by saying he hoped the Irish Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be brought to trial, or condemned without being allowed a fair hearing.—The House was then resumed.Mr. Foster
 was of opinion it would have been better had such a grant been voted in 1806.Mr. Grattan
 said, that being a member of the Committee, he felt anxious to state his sentiments on this occasion. He had looked over the returns attentively, and it appeared to him that there was no foundation for any censure upon the Board of Works. The returns might perhaps have been framed in a different manner, but there was obviously a desire to give all the information required.Mr. H. Thornton
505504 thought that there were sufficient grounds for allowing the present Bill to go into a committee. The declaration of the Bribery Bill established the existence of that, which its enactments were found insufficient to remedy. He gave that Bill his support, differing from every one of his friends in his opinion of it, notwithstanding it was so mutilated and changed in its passage through the House by persons whom he never should have expected to see in the light of reformers, that he was convinced of its inefficacy, from an idea that some of the objections against it, ought to have been pointed out by some of his friends.—The hon. gent. who opposed the Bill, said that he could not see the necessity of it, as from our advancement in
505504Mr. Curwen
498497 rose and slated, that he had no intention of calling in the assistance of counsel, as he believed a very brief statement of the circumstances of the case would be sufficient to enable the House to form a judgment upon the question before them. He had expected that the hon. gentleman, the worthy representative of Middlesex, to whom it was his duty to express his sense of the politeness and attention which he had received at his hands on this occasion, would have prefaced the motion for the second reading of this Bill, by some statement of the grounds on which it was recommended to parliament, and the principles on which it laid claim to the sanction of the legislature. The only account, however, which he had been able to obtain explanatory of the objects of the measure, was a print-ed paper which had been pretty widely circulated, and which certainly contained nothing in the shape of argument to support it. This paper represented to the public, or to these whom it addressed, that they ought not to be discouraged by the splendid talents that would be exerted against their cause. He disclaimed for his own part any knowledge that such exertions were intended to be made, conscious as he was that the only motive that impelled him to come forward on this occasion, was a feeling of what was due to the number of persons interested in the property of Drury-lane Theatre. He was most ready to acknowledge the candour and fairness
498497Mr. Sheridan
500 said, that when anybody set up a claim to a legal monopoly, the best that could be done was to examine that claim. He had a great friendship for the right hon. gent. and for many connected with him, and he had great pity for those who had suffered by the destruction of Drury-lane Theatre; but even, if he had no regard for his right hon. friend, the dignified manner in which he conducted himself on the night of that, calamity would have made him anxious that his loss should not be aggravated. The delay that had taken place in the rebuilding of that theatre, was caused in the manner already described, and he was happy to be able to state to the hon. gent. near hint, that being one of those who were occupied in examining the property, he had reason to know that Drury-lane theatre was likely to be restored. This investigation was not yet sufficiently advanced to enable him to state the time, but he would propose that the second reading should be put off to this day six weeks; and if it was then made manifest
500Mr. Whitbread
 said, that if there should be no other opportunity of bringing it in this session, he would be right in not yielding to the amendment; but as that was not the case, he saw no ground for opposing it.Mr. Whitbread
502** said that nothing but a plan founded on a comprehensive view of the subject could possibly do any good. He had no hopes from such partial measures as the present. The effect of them would be nothing else than to throw the monopoly of the purchase of seats into the hands of the Treasury. He was convinced his hon. friend would some time feel the difficulty of doing any good by applying partial remedies to a general evil. To the constitution alone they must look in devising a general remedy com-
502**Mr. Brand
 said, that as the sense of the House appeared to be against him, he would not so far injure the cause of those for whom he acted, as to call for a division.Mr. Mellish
 said he should be sorry to oppose such a proposition, but he had not now the power to consult those persons at whose request he had brought in the Bill.Mr. Mellish
 moved the second reading of the Bill for the erecting and maintaining a new Theatre for dramatic entertainments with in the cities of London and Westminster. On the Speaker inquiring if counsel were in attendance,Mr. Mellish
l512 said, he hoped the Committee would excuse him for rising again, but he really felt it to be his duty to vindicate the character of the gentlemen who composed this Board, which in his opinion had been most unjustly attacked. He merely wished the Committee to bear in mind that they had made two returns to the precepts; the first contained a detailed account of the whole expenditure of the year, the second an account of the expen-
l512Mr. Pole
l511l said, his hon. friend was not aware of the manner in which the Board of Works drew for the money which was necessary for the services which they were required to perform. In the first instance they drew until the 25,000l511lMr. Pole
ll was happy to inform the right hon. baronet, that the grant of the preceding year had been 25,000llMr. W. Pole
508 thought it was hard that the hon. baronet should accuse him of arrogance after the attempt which he had made to satisfy his inquiries. He trusted, however, that the Committee would be
508Mr. W. Pole
llllldsl510sldslll509lllll said, that the sum usually voted under the head of Civil Buildings was 25,000llllldsl510sldslll509lllllMr. W. Pole
506 said, that he should oppose every alteration of the present constitution of that House, and had he merely heard the speech of the hon. gent. who spoke last, he should have concluded that such was the object of the present Bill. Notwithstanding all the lofty language which they had heard from that hon. gent., almost threatening them with the distrust and condemnation of the people if they did not accede to this measure, he would tell that hon. gent. that a Bill ought to be canvassed in that House on is just principles, and when those principles did not meet with their approbation, they did their duty in rejecting it; and in endeavouring to please the people in opposition to their own sentiments, they would not do their duty, but commit an act of injustice.—He then proceeded to discuss the clause relating to evidence, which went to violate a principle acknowledged in the laws of this and every other country. It was said that the witness was indemnified from punishment. But was it possible to indemnify him from the effect of moral guilt, from the loss of character sustained by the compulsive discovery. Another strong objection to this part of the Bill was, that it increased the temptation to perjury for the purpose of conviction or acquittal. An informer came into court with all the blackness peculiar to an informer, and his credibility was affected by it. But here he was relieved
506Sir John Anstruther
 thought it very natural that those who opposed every plan of reform which could have any practical effect, on some pretext or other, should also oppose the present Bill. All the reasons, however, which he had heard against committing the Bill, were, in his mind, so many reasons in favour of the measure. If the Bill was liable to the objections which had been specified, the way to purge it from those objections was to go into a Committee. What would be the conseqnence of a refusal? It would convince the people of England, that the former measures of the House were merely resorted to for the sake of tranquillizing the public mind for a moment, and not from any serious desire of reformation. The hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Johnstone,) had asked for a case. Why, the very evil was the secret nature of the act, from which, by the existing law, it would be impossible ever to make a discovery of it. If the offence could be discovered, the present law was sufficient to convict the offender, and there would then be no necessity of coming to the House for an alteration. He concluded with declaring, that he should vote for the Committee.Sir John Newport
 wished to know why the accounts relative to this grant, had not been accurately stated as usual?Sir J. Newport
 expressed himself dissatisfied with the statement of the hon. gentleman. He declared that he was not to be put down in the discharge of his public duty by the tone and manner of the hon. gent. which did not result altogether from his official situation, but was in some degree a family inheritance.—(Order, order.)Sir J. Newport
 was of opinion, that the returns might have been worded in a more satisfactory manner, and therefore he could not but think that the censure which appeared in the report was well founded.Sir John Newport
ll thought the sum proposed not sufficient, and that the grant ought not to be less by 350llSir J. Newport
 moved the second reading of the Spilsby Poor Bill, for the purpose of postponing it for a month. He was aware that there were many objectionable clauses in it; but, perhaps, with several alterations, it might be rendered worthy the attention of the House.Mr. Chaplin
515 was anxious to give every opportunity for improvement, where improvement was possible, but the whole frame and object of the Bill was bad: there was not a single clause but what was liable to objection. He again adverted to some of the most extraordinary provisions of this Bill, which was intended to operate upon twenty united parishes. The directors were empowered to compel all the poor throughout the whole extent of these parishes, whether asking for relief or not, to go into this workhouse. They were to have all the authority of magistrates with respect to such as they should consider vagrants. They were to be allowed to enter houses at their discretion to search for vagrants. They might commit to solitary imprisonment, without limit, the poor which they collected, and administer moderate correction for misbehaviour—in other words, they were to have the power of flogging the poor under their controul, at their own discretion. They might besides, by this Bill, seize all the poor children in the parish, whether calling for relief or not, and bind them apprentices at their discretion. He understood that many of the most respectable inhabitants of Spilsby had never heard of such a Bill, and that they strongly disapproved of its provisions. He next adverted to some very objectionable provisions in acts relating to the poor, that had passed in former sessions, the St. Paul's Shadwell; the St. George's Southwark acts, &c. and
515Sir S. Romilly
, while he acknowledged that our poor laws were in several respects objectionable, was sorry that they should be thus generally censured before there was any thing to adopt in their stead.Mr. Rose
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the registering and securing of Charitable Donations for the benefit of poor persons in England. A Bill for this purpose had been brought in last session, but dropped on account of the pressure of business at the close. The inquiries that had been formerly made, had proved that there were great abuses in many charitable establishments, and that there was reason to believe many of them had been lost. Altogether they amounted to a great sum, and the object was, by the publicity of registering, that such donations should be preserved and applied to the proper purpose.Mr. Lockhart
516 was a warm friend to the
516Sir S. Romilly
 said a few words in favour of the object of the measure.—Leave was given to bring in the Bill.Mr. Wynn
 brought up the Report of the Committee of Supply respecting the grants voted for Miscellaneous Irish Services. On the question that the Resolutions be now read,Mr. Wharton
 rose and said, that there was one Resolution respecting the sum granted in aid of the Roman Catholic Seminary in Ireland, which he could not suffer to pass in the state the House then was. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. gent. would agree to postpone the further consideration of that Resolution until a fuller attendance could enable them to give it the consideration it called for.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that he was not aware that the hon. gentleman's objection to the smallness of the sum would extend that night to opposing the sum itself. Delay might be attended with great inconvenience.Mr. Foster
 said, that the principle of providing suitably for the education of the Catholic clergy in Ireland, the clergy of four millions, was in his mind a paramount consideration. He would not allow such a Resolution to be hurried through such a House as was then present.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that he could not see what object the hon. gentleman could obtain by the delay he required; there could be no doubt that inconvenience might arise from it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was against further unnecessary delay.Mr. Foster
 then said, that if he could not convince gentlemen of the propriety of postponing the further consideration of a question of such delicacy and moment to what appeared to him to be a more seasonable opportunity, he must exercise his right, and now call upon the Speaker to——Mr. Hutchinson
 here rose, and said that he had no objection to postpone the further consideration of that Resolution till tomorrow. The Resolutions were then severally read and agreed to; the one respecting Maynooth College having been postponed till to-morrow.Mr. Foster
518llll said, that in the Resolutions just read, they had voted a sum little short of 200,000518llllMr. Hutchinson
l denied that the 200,000lMr. Foster
 replied, that he had not said that the whole sum was devoted to the mere local benefit of Dublin, so far from saying this, he had excepted the charities mentioned by the right hon. gent. He spoke generally. He repeated, that he thought much less money would be more advantageously expended in the instance he had given. He expressed his hope that the right hon. gent would think it worthy of some consideration hereafter, and would also agree to contribute more largely than parliament had yet done to the Cork charities. He knew them to be excellent institutions, and earnestly trusted they would not be let to fall into decay for the want of that timely aid which he was sorry to say they stood much in need of. He hoped that the Irish giants for the future would not in general be so much confined to the capital.Mr. Hutchinson
 condemned the principle of the Bill, and gave it as his opinion, that with proper regulations, the poor might be better supported at one-fourth of the present expence.Mr. Curwen
 wished, that the motion for a month's postponement should be agreed to, but mentioned that the magistrates of Lincoln had nothing to do with the bill, many of the provisions of which no one could read without indignation.Mr. Ellison
 condemned several of the provisions of the Bill, but stated that some of these evils were the necessary effect of the poor laws, which induced the poor to try every artifice to get relief from the parish, and tempted the parish to resort to improper expedients to prevent such demands. He recommended to some person connected with government, to consider of an alteration in the general system.Mr. Giddy
 seconded the motion, and expressed his conviction that great good would result from the measure. He had no doubt the Bill would pass, if gentlemen would only consider the importance of the subject.Mr. Wilberforce
l522521llllll520llllllldsdll519l said, he did not consider any apology to the House necessary for his excepting last night the Resolution respecting Maynooth College from the other Resolutions agreed to in the Committee of Irish Supply, because the education of the Catholic clergy of Ireland, a clergy who had the charge of four millions of souls intrusted to them, was an object of sufficient importance to deserve the most serious attention of the House. The College of Maynooth was established by parliament in 1795, for the education of 200 Irish Catholic students. For this purpose the sum of 8,000l522521llllll520llllllldsdll519lMr. Hutchinson
 seconded the motion.Mr. Herbert of Kerry
 contended, that in voting a sum to the Maynooth College, the House did nothing more than give back to the Catholics a small part of the sum they had paid for the public good. The ends of all governments were for the benefit of the governed; instead of which, it seemed here to be the object to separate the government from the governed, and to render their interests completely independent of each other. This was a thing to be deplored, and it was a calamity daily growing on us.Mr. P. Moore
ll submitted to the House whether the grant proposed to be made, could be considered adequate to the charity to be supported. He thought, that to come at this point, the amount of the grant had been fairly contrasted with the other items voted on the present occasion, as for instance, with the sum of 10,000llSir T. Turton
 rose to submit to the consideration of the House, the motion of which he had given notice.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
539 spoke to order. He was the last man in the House who would rise to oppose the motion for giving the Thanks of the House to general Graham, who appeared to him eminently entitled to the gratitude of the country, but he
539Lord Folkestone
542541540 hoped the House would permit him to say a few words on what had fallen from the noble lord. He had not claimed a right of bringing forward his motion before any other of which notice might have been given; but he conceived, that there was a something in that which he had to submit to their consideration, which would preferably engage their attention before any other business which stood fixed for the day. In this opinion he had been justified by the noble lord himself, as he had admitted that there was a something so peculiar in that which he had to bring forward, that he would not interpose any obstacle. Under such circumstances he thought if the regulation alluded to had never been in existence, the noble lord and every other person in that House would have given precedence to such a motion. It would be inconvenient to say more (though much more might be said) on what had been advanced, as it might prevent the question being met with that good-humoured unanimity which he hoped would prevail on the present occasion. In rising to submit to them a Resolution, that the thanks of the House be given to lieut. general Graham, to the officers, and to the gallant army under his command, for the late victory, than which a more brilliant military achievement was not upon record, he was confident he had no opposition to expect. If any difference could arise in any part, it would only be a contest, who should be most loud to express what must be equally felt by all. The task of bringing the subject forward, in devolving upon him, he was sensible had fallen into incompetent hands. From the information of which the House was already in possession, he was convinced their feel-
542541540The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 bore testimony to every thing that had fallen from the right hon. gent, and felt greatly indebted to him for the very able manner in which he had stated it. The right hon. gent. might have added to the other merits of his gallant friend, that to him was to be attributed, in a great measure, the surrender of Malta, and, in that respect, general Piggott did him but justice. He then went to Egypt, where he became the friend of the gallant sir Ralph Abercromby. Sir John Hope, who brought the last accounts from the field of Corunna, reported it to the Commander in Chief, as being the express wish of the gallant sir John Moore in his last moments, that, in the case of general Graham, there might be a departure from the general rule of the army. So far was sir John Moore convinced of the merits of this distinguished officer. The Commander in Chief, therefore, felt himself absolved from all those ties by which the service was in general regulated, and placed him in a situation where his merits might be serviceable to the country. The right hon. gent. had done nothing but justice to the late Commander in Chief, in ascribing to him a great portion of the energy and discipline of our army. He had greatly added to, and encouraged both. But here we owed to the late Commander in Chief, not only the discipline of the troops, but the possession of the Commander also.General Hope
 begged leave to express his cordial concurrence in the motion now before the House. The valour and discipline displayed in the action of Barrosa could not be too, highly rated. He congratulated the House upon the fresh instance of military conduct evinced by the Portuguese troops in that action, by which they had confirmed the auspicious promises held forth by them in the battle of Busaco. He had, upon a former occasion, expressed his doubts of any beneficial consequences being likely to result from the plan then proposed, respecting the officering and disciplining Portuguese troops. That opinion the subsequent conduct of the Portuguese had changed; and he did not now shrink from avowing that change of opinion, as a duty which he owed to himself as an officer, and to the public.General Ferguson
547 in terms of suitable eulogium, commented upon the skill and bravery evinced by the General and troops, in the action of Barrosa. In a struggle such as that, in which they were now engaged with a formidable enemy, it was matter of no small encouragement to know, that in the event of any of those critical emergencies which the casualties of war must so often and so unexpectedly bring, to pass; it was no small encouragement to be able to rest satisfied, that in such a moment this country might securely rely upon those great energies in her military character, to be found at all times as well in the skill, devotion, and genius of her generals, as in the unconquerable valour and discipline of her armies. In addition to what he felt, in common with every one, upon this subject, he had also great personal satisfaction in knowing, that the honours of that most brilliant achievement devolved upon his friend general Graham, than whom never did man enter his profession with nobler zeal for the service. The peculiar circumstances under which he entered on it, though they debarred him from looking forward to the honours opened to those who proceeded through the more regular gradations, yet never had the slightest effect in damping his military ardour. That ardour burned in his bosom with as bright and as pure a flame when he was but colonel Graham, and expected to die colonel Graham, as it did now, when, happily for the destinies of England, his great military genius had been advanced to a more suitable, because a more elevated and extended sphere of
547Lord Castlereagh,
ex officio569bonorum morumworthypatrioticnemine disstntiente;568ex propriomotu567566****565564l563562ex officioex officioex officiototo;561ex officioex officioex officio560dictumobiter dictumofficioex-officio559sub silentio558557556Nisi Priusfalsas libellusverus libellus555554tales553base lucreex officioex officioipsc dixit552ex officio551ex officioex officio550549officio rose and spoke as follows: Mr. Speaker; At any other time I should have said with the leave of the Mouse; now after what we have seen this day, and on former days, I say with the leave of the minister, I will make the motion which has for some time stood in the order-book, that motion will be for "An Account of ail Prosecutions for Libel by Information ex ex officio569bonorum morumworthypatrioticnemine disstntiente;568ex propriomotu567566****565564l563562ex officioex officioex officiototo;561ex officioex officioex officio560dictumobiter dictumofficioex-officio559sub silentio558557556Nisi Priusfalsas libellusverus libellus555554tales553base lucreex officioex officioipsc dixit552ex officio551ex officioex officio550549officioLord Folkestone
580noli prosequi579578577576575574573talestales572dsds571ex officio570ex officio rose, and said, that though the noble lord had not expressly called in question the right of the individual holding the office which he had the honour to fill, to institute a criminal process by filing Informations 580noli prosequi579578577576575574573talestales572dsds571ex officio570ex officioThe Attorney General
Ex OfficioEx Officio584dsdsEx Officio583Ex Officio582581 spoke to the following effect:—Sir, I ought, perhaps, to make an apology to the House for troubling them with any observations of mine, after the very able and convincing statement made by the noble lord, who brought forward this question, and after having
Ex OfficioEx Officio584dsdsEx Officio583Ex Officio582581Sir Francis Burdett
607606ex officio declared, that he would not enter upon the general question which had been that night the subject of discussion, but would shortly state his reasons for the vote which he should give in favour of the motion. The object of it was merely for an account of the number of 607606ex officioSir Samuel Romilly
612611noli prosequinoli prosequi610609608ex-officio rose to reply, and spoke as follows: Sir, after having already trespassed so long upon the attention of the House, it would be unpardonable in me to consume much more of its time; but I cannot refrain from making a few short observations upon what has been dropped in the course of the present discussion. My right hon. friend (Mr. Elliot), and the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Stephen) have stated, that I have produced no instances of an improper use of the power of the Attorney General to justify this motion. To this I reply, that I have laid different grounds: first, the general ground of the hardship under which this power lays all the subjects of the realm: secondly, the improper use of it, in the case both of prosecutions improperly commenced, and of partiality. And for the truth of this, I need only refer my right hon. friend and the hon. and learned gentleman to the fact, that the Attorney General has, in no one case, denied the hardship of which I complained, and to the statement which I made in the outset, confirmed as that statement has been by the Attorney General himself: namely, that of the forty-two prosecutions commenced in three years, nearly one half have not been proceeded in. Now, Sir, either the prosecutions were justifiable, or they were not. If they were justifiable, then why were they dropped? Did the Attorney General assume to himself the right to decide that sufficient punishment had been inflicted? and the right to inflict it on whomsoever he chose? The Attorney General tells us that he has received apologies. Sir, the Attorney General is a public servant, acting for the benefit of the public; and is he to assume to himself the right of stopping proceedings commenced with that view, upon an apology made to himself? Besides, what apology can be sufficient in the case of such high misdemeanours as those to which alone, according to Blackstone, these 612611noli prosequinoli prosequi610609608ex-officioLord Folkestone
 highly approved of the motion, and spoke in terms of the most unqualified praise of the promptitude, presence of mind, skill, and valour displayed by general Graham, as well as of the discipline and bravery of his little army. In the abundant stores of British glory he could find nothing of the kind to equal it.General Tarleton
 said that he should support the motion of the noble lord.Mr. Charles Adams
605604sub diuEx-Officio maintained the legality of the practice of filing 605604sub diuEx-OfficioMr. Stephen
548 said, that all parts of the House agreed in attributing no small part of the causes which led to the general successes of our arms to the wise regulations of the late Commander in Chief: if that were so, and he had no doubt that it was, he hoped that his Royal Highness would at last be done justice to; he hoped he should soon hear of his being restored to the high situation he filled so well, and that he would again, and shartly too, be enabled to serve the army and the country as Commander in Chief. He hoped that this was not the country in which an innocent man could be written down, so as
548Mr. Fuller
 observed, that all that was sought for on the present occasion, was the means of investigation. The public mind was greatly interested in the present question; and very properly, for the liberty of the press was the best birthright of an Englishman, and what perhaps, he had most to depend upon for the maintenance of all his other rights. To his certain knowledge, in consequence of the numerous prosecutions lately instituted, an alarm had gone abroad that struck such a terror into the booksellers, that when a person very lately offered a pamphlet to the London booksellers, displaying the most nefarious practices in certain gaols in Ireland that ever disgraced a civilized country; offering also to prove them by affidavits, he could not get a publisher. This fact struck him with alarm; for if the abuses of power were not to be exposed, then there was every danger of their being practiced with impunity.Mr. Peter Moore
545544543 felt himself fortunate in rising at that moment to have met the Speaker's eye, as he was earnestly desirous of the honour of seconding the motion which had just been made, and which had been submitted to the house by the right hon. gent. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) with a degree of perspicuity, energy and feeling, which left little to be said by those who may be most zealously disposed to support his proposition. There was not one in the House, he was sure, but felt the same interest—but was anxious for the same honour. There could be no difference of opinion on such a subject. They must all vie with each other in the zeal, the unanimity, and the cordiality with which they offered their thanks to the brave general and his brave army. If there were any who thought we ought never to have embarked in the conflict in the Peninsula, or at least, that our wisdom and our policy should have limited our assistance to the grant of money and sup-
545544543Mr. Sheridan
 thought that no instances of an improper use of the powers of the Attorney General had been produced, and could not therefore support the motion of his noble friend.Mr. William Elliot
, after expressing his concurrence in the general expression of approbation at the skill and conduct of the general, and the steady valour and discipline of the army displayed in that action, was proceeding to enter into the question of the policy of the present mode of carrying on the war in Spain, when the House beginning to evince some symptoms of impatience, the hon. gent. said, that, as the temper of the House seemed averse to entering on that subject then, he should not press it, but reserve to himself some other opportunity for delivering his sentiments upon it.Mr. Fremantle
 moved the second reading of the Bill to repeal so much of an Act, passed in the 12th year of the reign of queen Anne, intituled, "An act for the more effectual preventing and punishing robberies that shall be committed in houses, as takes away the benefit of clergy from persons stealing any money, goods or chattels, wares or merchandizes, of the value of forty shillings or more, in any dwelling house or outhouse thereunto belonging, and for more effectually preventing the crimes of stealing in dwelling houses, or outhouses thereunto belonging."Sir Samuel Romilly
650649 said, if he thought the motion of his hon. and learned friend
650649Sir John Ansrtruther
 said, that amongst the objections he had heard urged against the Bill, there was none against its general provision. It was admitted that the persons in question ought not to suffer loss in consequence of their having held such situations; and that they ought to be provided for as far as it could be done consistently with the public service. The question then was, how far the present bill was calculated to effect that? He justified the conduct of the duke of Portland's administration, when it first came into power, in continuing to these foreign ministers the pensions given to them by the preceding government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was then open to the King's discretion, whether he would continue to them their pensions or not.Mr. Abercromby
662 said, that from the constant exercise of the discretionary right in the King to grant a pension to all those who had served abroad as foreign ministers, there seemed to have arisen on the part of those ministers, a correspondent right to demand; so that the claims were so many, and were represented to be so similar, that the great difficulty was to know where to grant and where to withhold; this of course led to difficulties which were justly obviated by the Bill of last session. This Bill provided certain rules, which were meant to regulate future claims, by putting aside all those which did not come within such regulations. The first rule laid down was, that limiting the period of service within ten years from the date of his commission. The Bill further provided, that the person holding the foreign seals should certify that the claimant had not, within that space of time, refused any one mission
662Mr. Canning
 said, he thought the speech of his noble friend who spoke last, as well as the speeches of those who had preceded, partook too much of general discussion, and seemed rather to wander from the question. One would suppose that a new code was intended to be introduced, whereas the sole object of discussion was a short practical question, whether a law should remain which was almost never enforced, or whether the present Bill, which took away in the few instances where that law was executed capital punishment, was more expedient and advisable? It had been said, what opinions of practical men were there in favour of the Bill? He would say, that they had the opinion of all the judges, and all the jurors who had been in the practice of administering the laws for many years past, in their favour. Practice was therefore in favour of this Bill. It had been said on the other side, that there was no ground of complaint under the existing laws. The single subject of dispute therefore was, whether the disadvantages were such as to warrant the repeal of those laws, or whether the measure of his learned and hon. friend was more advantageous, and admirably calculated for the prevention of crime. One great disadvantage of the existing system was the disinclination of judges and jurors to execute the laws as painful to their feelings. It was mortifying that the people of England should remain so long subject to the animadversion of the people of other countries, either directed against the laws or the execution of them, and that foreigners should have it in their power to make Englishmen blush for those laws which put judges and jurors in such a situation that they could not discharge their duty. He held in his hands an account of the number of persons committed, tried, and convicted during the last ten years. It was unfortunate, however, that for the last five years, the numbers of those who were committed, and those tried, were not distinguished. This list afforded the most complete practical illustration of the disinclination to prosecute. To what other cause could the disparity between the commitments and trials be imputed.Mr. Abercromby
655 argued generally in favour of the Bill; and in support of that part of his speech which related particularly to the injurious effects of its being imperative on the Judge by the existing law, to pronounce sentence of death on a person capitally convicted, although he might not have the remotest intention of ordering that sentence to be carried into execution, mentioned an affecting incident which occurred some years ago on the Home Circuit, when lord Kenyon was on the Bench. An interesting young woman was tried for a robbery in a dwelling-house. It appeared to have been her first offence; and there were so many circumstances of extenuation, that the witnesses very reluctantly gave their evidence, and the jury still more reluctantly' their verdict of guilty. When lord Kenyon proceeded to pass the awful sentence of the law upon her, the poor creature, who had observed the previous interest which her peculiar case had excited, fell senseless at the bar. Lord Kenyon, who was a man of great sensibility, immediately cried out, in the most hurried manner, "Good woman, I don't mean to hang you, I don't mean to hang
655Mr. Morris
656 agreed, that it would be an important improvement on the law, if judges were not compelled to pass sentence of death on those who, at the time of passing sentence, they should be of opinion did not deserve a capital punishment. It would make a wonderful difference, however, if capital punishments were entirely to be removed out of the criminal code in every case connected with the objects of the different Bills now before the House. The case cited by the hon. gent. who spoke last was no doubt calculated to awaken the feelings of the by-standers, but it became the House, in their legislative capacity, to have firmer nerves. The hon. and learned gent. (Mr. Abercromby) had placed the question on its fair footing, namely, whether the alteration was, or was not, on the whole, well calculated to diminish the offences in question. He asked, on this principle, was the alteration proposed best calculated to prevent the offence now more peculiarly under consideration, in those degrees and shades of guilt which it was most desirous to prevent? Would not the severity of the punishment rather tend to check those deeper shades of criminality for which the severe punishments were always reserved? And would not the knowledge that the capital punishment was no longer to operate be an encouragement to the perpetration of those most desperate robberies in the dwelling-house, which alone were at present visited with the punishment of death? He could not agree, however, to the suggestion of his hon. friend (Mr. Frankland,) that an option might be given to prosecutors to lay their indictments capitally or not. as they chose. If this were the case, no offence would be laid as of a capital nature, unless from some improper feeling on the part of the prosecutor. As to the idea that the present measure would contribute to render punishment more certain, that he could not agree to, if by "more certain" was to be understood more defined, for, by the present measure, a greater latitude of punishment than that now in use was allowed. The unwillingness to prosecute,
656The Chancellor of the Exchequer
sl660659658657 concurred entirely in the testimony that had been borne by every gentleman who had spoken on the subject, as to the ability and ingenuity with which his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Frankland) had opposed the present measure. He could not but observe, however, that his hon. and learned friend had been rathersevere upon him, treating him as one who, so far as the present subject was concerned, was to be regarded merely as a speculator, and not a lawyer—or as one of those dilettanti lawyers, who knew no more of the law than any other person in the country who had never made it his study. If so, and he was really so ignorant on this subject as his hon. and learned friend represented him, he was, indeed,
sl660659658657Sir Samuel Romilly
 of Kerry opposed the bill.Mr. Herbert
 opposed the Bill on the ground of its breaking in upon the line of financial reform already laid clown.Mr. Bankes
652 said, that exaggerated rigour uniformly defeated its own object, and there was a point beyond which its influence would not extend. To punish small crimes with death, therefore, was not only the height of injustice, but it was also extremely impolitic. What opinion would a stranger form of the humanity of England, when he was told that fifty years ago there were more than 160 offences punishable with death. If different gradations of crime, the small and the great, were to receive the same punishment, the greater crimes would be naturally resorted to.—He then proceeded to shew how inconsistent this severity was with the Christian morality, and the danger of lightly condemning a man as unfit to live, who might be more unfit to die. These severe punishments he said, had their origin in the feudal code. It was natural in times of ignorance, to recur to an indiscriminate severity. The most horrible punishment of those times, which was inflicted for parricide, &c. was now laid aside, but the secondary punishment of death for comparative trivial offences, still remained. The law, therefore, either had done too much or too little, in removing the one punishment and allowing the other to subsist. To those who dreaded the consequences of this repeal he would refer to the effects of the alleviation of punishment introduced into Russia by the empress Catherine. Those who objected to the repeal seemed to think that whatever is must be right, for if wrong, it must have been already discovered; and in this manner error was continued from generation to generation. Whatever fate this measure might have at present, he could not but congratulate his hon. and
652Lord George Grenville
651 though an enemy to rash and ill considered changes, was far from being a friend to that indiscriminate hatred of innovation which extended to the prevention or obstruction of all improvement. It had been asserted, that persons who had been the chief sufferers-from crimes often abstained from prosecuting because by law the delinquent might be subjected to a punishment totally disproportioned to the crime. If this was really the case, it was a matter well worthy the attention of the House, and one which ought to be taken into immediate consideration. It had been said, that the same' motive which deterred the injured from prosecuting ought to deter the guilty from committing the offence. The cases were' widely different. The thief knew perfectly that very few were executed, though the law denounced death—one only out of a thousand. His wants might be pressing, the risk under these circumstances was small, and at any rate the punishment distant, while the gain was immediate. The person robbed of some trifling article might not be inclined to prosecute. The injury to him he might know to be trifling; but the consequences of a conviction he must be aware must be treble to the of-fender. It had also been argued, and he believed with truth, that juries had almost, from the necessity of the case, assumed a discretion which did not properly belong to them; and that judges were often
651Mr. Macdonald,
 moved the second reading of this Bill.Mr. Leach
 replied to the arguments urged by various speakers against his Bill, and contended, that persons employed in the diplomatic service of the country, were entitled to a liberal provision, when they were no longer employed, though they might not have been ten years in; the service. Persons who gave their talents to the diplomacy, and relinquished other prospects of obtaining an independence on the faith of the existing negociation, ought not to be subsequently denied support in consequence of a new arrangement having been made.Mr. Leach
 expressed his reluctance in feeling himself obliged to vote against the Bill.Mr. Whitbread
 opposed the second reading. He was averse to any step that could have the least tendency to raise a suspicion on the part of the people of the sincerity of the efforts making by that House in the financial reform already entered upon.Mr. Brand
643642641640***639638637636635634633in faœ Romuli, sed in republicâ Platonis632patria polestas631******630629628foro conscienti627foro humanoforo conscientiœpœna ad nullosmetus ad onmespœna ad paucos;626metus ad omnes, pœna ad paucos.625624Facilis descensus623622621Nolumus leges Angliœ mulari620619618617616 spoke in opposition to the second reading to the effect following:643642641640***639638637636635634633in faœ Romuli, sed in republicâ Platonis632patria polestas631******630629628foro conscienti627foro humanoforo conscientiœpœna ad nullosmetus ad onmespœna ad paucos;626metus ad omnes, pœna ad paucos.625624Facilis descensus623622621Nolumus leges Angliœ mulari620619618617616Mr. Frankland
 were for the Bill.Mr. Stephen and Mr. Giddy
 was hostile to the second reading of the Bill upon the same ground.Sir J. Newport
666 referred the hon. gent. who spoke last to the Bill itself, to shew that it was intended to be a permanent measure. The Bill recited, that "whereas it was expedient to provide a permanent supply for the army, &c." and this quality of permanency was, in fact, the great objection to the measure. The Militia officers were to be converted into drill Serjeants, to provide 10,000 men annually for the army. With regard to the private men, it must be remembered that 240,000 in England were locked up by way of local-militia or volunteers. These might be enlisted; but then their places must be supplied.
666Mr. Gites
 said, that he should propose a clause to declare that the ballot should not take place until the year 1813.Mr. Bankes
, adverting to what had been stated by a right hon gent. (Mr. Elliot) against the present Bill, was willing to allow that if it were possible to raise 24,000 men annually by, ordinary recruiting, it would be more advisable than to have recourse to a compound system. The measure of the late Mr. Windham, however, though favoured by peculiar circumstances, only produced in the first year of its operation 17,000 men.Lord Castlereugh
667 repeated it had only produced 17,000. All the facts relative to this subject were submitted to the House by Mr. Windham and himself in 1807. It was to be remarked that at that period there were no less than 54 second battalions in the country so reduced, that it was doubted whether they could possibly be filled up; and an order was issued, that if each battalion did not raise 400 men, in all about 20,000 men, the battalions should be disbanded, and the officers would forfeit their rank. The recruiting parties were in consequence increased from 200 to 700. He dissected the number of men raise that year, and found that no fewer were raised in one half year than 8,000 men by these second battalions. Whatever influence the inducements held out by the late Mr.
667Lord Catstlereagh
670 contended that it was necessary, in the present situation of the country, that the army should be kept up to its greatest and most efficient force. He wished, therefore, that gentlemen who opposed the present Bill would propose some substitute for it which would be equally effectual. At the same time he entertained no doubt, from past experience, that there would be no necessity for resorting to the ballot within the time mentioned by the hon. gentleman. It might be asked then, why not agree to the clause proposed to be introduced by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bankes)? He would tell them why. He was afraid the introduction of such a clause would induce persons disposed to enlist to suppose that the ballot would necessarily take place at the end of two years, and would prevent them from entering till then, when they might expect greater advantages to arise to them. As to the idea of discipline being destroyed by this measure, this was greatly exaggerated, and officers of the
670Mr. Secretary Ryder
 contended, that these constant leaps which the militia were made to take, were calculated to produce, and in fact had produced insubordination in the militia. It would be a great deal better to put an end to this species of force at once.Mr. Bastard
674673672 said, that he was anxious to take that opportunity of saying a very few words upon a subject, yielding to no other in public interest, and which the nature of the Resolution now before them brought fairly within their consideration. He alluded to the late brilliant action fought upon the heights of Barrosa. In the debate upon the proposition of thanks to general Graham, he was unwilling to divert, for a moment, the tide of eulogium that was flowing in, from all quarters, upon the distinguished merits of that day, by introducing any other subject than that of the British general and his British army; but now that they might be supposed to have looked at the other circumstances of that memorable day, he hoped he might be allowed to ask for some explanation of—or if that could not be given, to express his deep regret at the unfortunate and deplorable misconduct of our allies in the battle of Barrosa. Of that conduct it would be idle to affect to speak in doubtful terms: it unfortu-
674673672The Hon. J. W. Ward
677676675 gave the hon. gent. great credit for his forbearance on a former occasion, and thought it would be most unfair on account of such forbearance, to preclude him from the right of subsequently discussing the subject. He could not, however, help saying, he thought the hon. gent. had expressed a stronger and more determined censure on the Spaniards than could be justified by the evidence in the possession of the House at present. If he had confined himself to expressions of sincere regret at the circumstance of the English having been left to fight the battle alone, and required some explanation on the subject, he should have thought such conduct on the part of the hon. gent. perfectly natural and perfectly right; but, uninformed of the whole of the circumstances (as he con-
677676675The Chancellor of the Exchequer
679 wished to be understood not as being the panegyrist of the Spanish general, but as wishing to prevent a sentence of condemnation being prematurely passed. As the Cortes had taken up the subject (and this he could state to the House), he thought they ought
679The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed a doubt as to the propriety of withholding censure till the Spanish commander had been tried, as general La Pena might be tried by such persons as general La Pena.Mr. Ward
 said that the Cortes had taken up the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought those who had employed him were not fit judges of his conduct.Mr. Ward
 wondered the hon. gent. did not recollect that it was possible a government might send out a bad general, without all its members being traitors or unfit to manage affairs. He wished it to be observed, however, that the Cortes were not the government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l moved that the sum of 1,648,260lMr. Wharton
 went over the circumstances connected with the battle of Barrosa. He detailed the events of that memorable day, from which, he contended, there were strong grounds for suspecting the Spanish general not of indifference, but of treachery. The military genius and presence of mind of general Graham, had alone saved the English army from destruction. The Spanish force was never more than four miles distant from the scene of action, yet it made no effort to take a part in it. The cold-bloodedness of the Spaniards, the removal of the two battalions which occupied the heights of Barrosa, combined with all the other circumstances, proved a something more than cowardice, and clearly demonstrated the existence of treachery. In all the battles fought in the peninsula we had gained abundant glory; but as no solid good could be derived from our continued exertions, he wished the Committee to consider well the nature of the vote they were called upon to give.General Tarleton
dslllll671llll proceeded to call the attention of the Committee to the Ordnance Estimates for the present year. The Ordinaries were considerably greater than they were last year, arising principally from the transfer to this head of service of several articles from the Extraordinaries, particularly the Artillery Drivers, Waggon Train, &c. He had endeavoured as much as possible, to follow a similar plan to that adopted in the Army Estimates, as being the most likely to make his statement intelligible to gentlemen who had been accustomed to attend to the Army Estimates. As the Estimates, however, were so transposed, it would not be necessary for him to compare them with the Estimates, of last year. He should, only say, in general, that they were 500,000dslllll671llllMr. Ashley Cooper
 would have been very averse to this measure if he had understood it to be a permanent one. But he hoped it was not intended to make it perpetual. Necessity justified it at present; the same necessity which at times might justify the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. He expected that there would be no occasion, however, to have recourse to the ballot. After the late volunteering, the recruiting for the Militia had been very successful. He would support the Bill therefore, as a temporary measure.Colonel Duckett
 said in explanation, that he should vote in favour of the present Bill merely as an experiment.Mr. Ellison
 hoped it was not intended to render this a permanent measure. He had the strongest objections to the ballot and fines, which were a great local oppression, throwing that burthen on a few which ought to be borne by all. The men, however, must be had, and he was willing to allow this Bill to pass, in the expectation that there would be no occasion to have recourse to the ballot.Mr. Ellison
680 thought the accusations thrown out against the Spanish government were hard preferred at a time when they were labouring to correct the faults in their constitution. Putting out of consideration the efforts which Spain had made at various times, he thought there was something in her exertions to remove the defects of which we complained, that entitled her to our assistance. He did not think the complete salvation of Spain was to be expected from the proceedings of the Guerrillas; still it was something to find in every province a band of men, who relinquishing their ordinary occupation, ranged the country in every direction in search of the enemy. With respect to what had been said of general Graham having served under the Spanish general, he must observe that general Graham had to consider whether he should do something or nothing. Had he not acted as he did, the opportunity which then offered might never have occurred with such
680Mr. R. Wellesley
678 should have been glad to have joined in the general expression of exultation called forth by the victory of Barrosa in a recent debate. He should have been glad to have added to the general tribute his mite, in applause of the heroism of that day, and to have done himself the honour of claiming the hero of that day as his much valued friend: this he should have been glad to have done, if he could have had sufficient controul over himself to prevent him from doing more; but he was apprehensive that he could not have abstained from speaking of the conduct of the Spaniards. The right hon. gent. had spoken like the advocate of the Spaniards; they must be defended at all events: no matter how! And yet what was it that was attempted to be defended? The English army was on the point of being sacrificed—the Spaniards were in sight of them, within twenty minutes quick march of them! and yet what did they? What were they? Why, just what they had been described by his hon. friend—cold blooded spectators of the battle! Was this doing their duty to themselves or to their brave allies? It was not easy to speak upon this topic without giving way to indignation; and after coldly witnessing a band of heroes fighting and dying for their cause, general La Pena tells our small army, exhausted with its unparalleled victory over numbers, that, forsooth, now was the time to push its success. What did this redoubted general mean? Was it insult, or treachery, or cowardice, each, or all? He did not mean to complain of the Spanish people, but of their officers. He should be sorry to say any thing so severe of that army, as that every soldier there felt as their general did. He only wished that the Spanish soldiers were put under the command of British officers, as the Portuguese were, and, he had no doubt, that they would behave as the Portuguese had behaved. He placed himself upon the silence of general Graham, and let the right hon. gent. dislodge him from that ground if he could. While that silence remained as it did, be should ever think of Barrosa as a day memorable for the glory of the Britons, and not less memorable for the infamy of the Spaniards. Was it to
678Mr. Whitbread
 said 19,000.Mr. Whitbread
668 thought the noble lord who spoke last had dealt very unfairly by that great man whose eternal absence all must lament, very unfairly by the army, and very unfairly by the country. The system of recruiting for the army, during the last war and the present war, down to the period when the late Mr. Windham's plan was proposed, was a system of force and violence. That plan was said to be theoretical, and in practice inefficient. Luckily, however, for the country, it was carried into execution; and its success exceeded the most sanguine expectations of Mr. Windham himself. The fact could not be contradicted, that in the particular year alluded to, the recruiting for the army exceeded not Only what had either happened before or since, but was equal to the ordinary waste of the army in time of war, namely, to 19,000, while the whole number now proposed to be raised was 22,000. The noble lord was for reducing the number raised on Mr. Windham's plan to 17,000; but he contended that it was proved by Mr. Windham that the number was 19,000 and it fraction. The noble lord next wished to detract from its merits, by imputing this increase to a second operation; the number of second battalions in which the rank of the officers depended on their success in recruiting, and the number of recruiting parties. It bad only produced, said the
668Mr. Whitbread
 brought up the report of the Militia Enlistment Bill.Mr. Lushington
665 said, he was compelled by a sense of duty to object to this Bill, though he could not now hope to say any thing new upon it. When he recollected those who had on former occasions been associated with him in opposition to these expedients, it might well be supposed, that the subject presented him with no cheering reflections. It might be said, that he was hostile to the Militia Establishment altogether; and that his arguments against it ought to be taken with some grains of allowance. He never had been an enemy to the establishment, provided it were kept to its original numbers. He then proceeded to stale the grounds of his objections to this measure: to the increase of the numbers of the Militia, and to the Local Military Establishments which for some time past had formed so great an obstacle to the regular recruiting for the army. His late right hon. friend (Mr. Windham,) had taken a comprehensive view of the whole subject, and had formed an excellent plan for the recruiting of the army. That plan, unfortunately, had been overthrown before its most efficacious engines had even begun to operate. Still, its success, so far as it had gone, had exceeded his expectations and those of the great character who had formed the plan. It produced, for the first quarter, at the rate of 10,000 men a year; for the second, at the rate of 13,000 men a year; for the third, at the rate of 21,000 men a year; and for the 4th quarter, at the rate of 24,000 men a year. All this, by the ordinary recruiting at a reduced bounty. But the efficacy of such a measure must depend on the opinion of its permanency; and since the unfortunate interference with it, the regular recruiting hardly produced
665Mr. Elliot
 said, the present measure shewed, in the strongest possible manner, the danger of having at any time recourse to extraordinary methods, as in a short time they came to make part of a general system. Ministers had only to say so many men were wanted for the regular army, and the measure would be recurred to of course. By such a measure, all the improvements in the army, which Mr. Windham's plan was calculated to produce, would never more be thought of. The first introduction of draughting from the militia was on the occasion of the expedition to the Helder, and it was then thought fit to accede to it from the extraordinary circumstances of the time. Who could then have supposed that it would have become a general system? All the objections which were then urged, of converting the militia officers into recruiting officers for the army, and of the insubordination it would occasion in the militia, were now got over. They were now never thought of. Nobody would ever think now of urging the necessities of the country in favour of the measure. His great objection to this measure was, that it put an end to all the benefit naturally to be expected from the plan of Mr. Windham, who had the art of infusing his own spirit into whatever he undertook. The present system was distressing and grinding in the highest degree on the lower orders.Mr. Wilberforce
, supported the measure; and was of opinion that a seventh taken annually from the militia for the regular army might be supplied by beat of drum, and without resorting to the ballot. He had witnessed many volunteerings from the militia, and he never knew them interfere with the discipline of the militia regiments.Colonel Wood
681 argued in favour of the Bill, contending that the Deep Sea Fishery was of the utmost importance, and ought to be encouraged by every possible means. He
681Mr. Rose
 opposed the Bill, the tendency of which was to produce a competition that would be destructive to the existing fisheries, without being advantageous to the public. It was the duty of parliament to maintain the interests of those fisheries which were already established. The Newfoundland fishery had been the cause of more wars between this country and France, than almost any other subject of contention, and having successfully defended it from foreign attack, we should surely abstain from destroying it with our own hands. He instanced several cases in which projects similar to that under consideration had been destructive, first to the competitors of the projectors, but ultimately to the projectors themselves.Mr. Marryatt
685 was of opinion that the House would not be disposed favourably to consider the present proposition, when they recollected the length of time which had elapsed since the exemption was first established. Twenty-five years ago that measure had passed the legislature, but in this long interval, no application had been made for redress, a pretty convincing proof that the injury sustained had not been of a very serious nature. Antecedently to the establishment of mail coaches the post was exempt from toll. An hon. bart. was, he was persuaded, rather singular in his advice, to refrain from the construc-
685The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 bore testimony to the statements of the noble lord with respect to the inconveniences which the exemption occasioned. He characterised it as a most unprincipled robbery on private property, and quoted the authority of Mr. Pennant in its reprobation. When the system of mail coaches originated, it was promised that they should be constructed of the lightest materials, that no passenger should be permitted to carry with him above 14 pounds weight of luggage, &c. Now, however, the mails were much heavier, and were made the vehicles for the conveyance of goods from one part of the kingdom to another; by which means the injury done to the roads had considerably increased. If it was desirable that the revenue should not suffer from the abolition of the exemption, he thought that at least the burden might be taken from the shoulders of the trustees of the roads, and placed on those of the passengers and senders of parcels.Mr. Wynn
 thought, if the proposed alterations were made, the mail coach proprietors would charge the public not merely in proportion as they were charged, but much more; as on such occasions was uniformly found to be the case. He could not give his assent to a measure of this description, which, he was of opinion, must necessarily affect the national revenue.Mr. Rose
 in assenting to the reference of the Petition to the Committee of Privileges, guarded himself from being supposed pledged to support any motion that might be made on the report of that Committee. With respect to the early precedents of sickness incapacitating members, adduced by the hon. gent., he had only to observe, that all later experience of the practice of the House was of an opposite nature.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
l684ll in consequence of his notice, rose to move, That a Committee be appointed to inquire into the expediency of the exemption from Toll granud to Mail Coaches in Great Britain. He observed, that very serious injury was sustained throughout ail parts of the kingdom by this exemption, but more particularly in Scotland, in the north and west of England, and in Wales. The complaint was, that heavy carriages passed up and down the various turnpike roads without contributing to their repair and maintenance. By these mail coaches great facilities were given to commerce, and the revenue obtained an addition of 380,000l684llLord Binning,
 stated the situation of the high bailiff of Westminster to be very different from that of the sheriff of a county. If it could not be proved that the emoluments of his office were too small, he thought that there was no reason for bringing in the Bill; and if that could be proved, he had no doubt but the liberality of the city of Westminster (whose rights he conceived would be in some degree affected by the measure), would be ready to increase his income.Sir P. Burdett
 thought the city of Westminster ought not to be distinguished from other populous places, unless some reason was given why such distinction was made.Mr. Wynn
 observed, that some large places had particular regulations, and thought there could be no objection to the Bill being brought in.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the measure, as likely to throw additional expence on the candidates, whether voluntary or involuntary, who might hereafter be put in nomination. He knew not how far the principle might be extended, and thought it his duty to oppose it in the first in-stance.Mr. Lockhart
 said, that if the agriculturists should possess the monopoly, they were bound, in consequence, to show that they were capable of completing the supply. So far, however, were they from manifesting that ability, that to the amount of 4,000,000 had been imported since 1772, and of 7,000,000 in the course of the last year. The stock of the manufacturers was well known at present, and it could scarcely be said to afford a proper opportunity for adopting any step which would have the effect of making bread dear, as the rejection of the present measure inevitably would. It had been said that the measure would make meat dear. How that could be, he was unable to discover; for it would make the food of cattle cheaper. The West India planters contributed much to support the expences of the country, and, if they were reduced to a situation, in which they could do so no longer, the expence must fall on the landholders. He therefore cautioned the landed interest how they resisted such measures as the present, and recommended that they might bear their fair share of the burdens of the country without shewing such an invincible repugnance to sacrifice their interest to the public good.Mr. Marryatt
 objected to the bill as injurious to the interests of Ireland.Mr. Shaw
689 contended that the measure would be injurious to the interests of the country, and quoted the report of the committee in support of his assertion.
689Mr. Coke
 said, that the effect of the measure would be to give the West India planters an advantage over the growers of foreign barley. The question was, whether 33s a quarter was a fair protecting price for the agriculturist or not. The English-distillers, it was true, were apprehensive that spirits would be brought from Scotland; but he had reason to believe, that such, improvements had taken place in the revenue of that part of the United Kingdom, as would prevent any irregular or illegal proceedings.Mr. Rose
 supported the amendment.Mr. Western
 denied that the distress of the farmer proceeded from the measure now before the House.Lord Binning
690 wished it to be recollected that he had originally proposed that the measure should continue but for the space of one year; but even then, should it be necessary, he intended that its continuance should be for a longer period. At present, however, he should propose in the Committee a clause, limiting its duration for four months only, after the passing of the Bill, a similar period having been adopted for Ireland, in order to enable the manufacturer to get rid of his grain if he should deem it expedient. Under that arrangement, which was thought beneficial for the interests of Ireland he did not suppose those who objected would be inclined to press their ob-
690The Chancellor of the Exchequer
686 could not give a negative to what had been advanced by his right hon. friend; but be doubted if his view of the subject was correct, and if the measure proposed would be followed by the
686Mr. R. Dundas
 said, he wished well to the landed interests; but he could not, however, help feeling for the West India planters. In 1808, when the subject was first canvassed, it was said that the country produced barley sufficient for all the purposes of the distillery. In. 1809 and 10, however, there was more imported than in the former year, which shewed that it did not produce barley enough to answer its own purposes, even without the distilleries. The competition was not between the West India and agricultural interests, but between the colonial and the foreign grower.Mr. Ellis
 said, he understood that it was intended to employ men from Holland and the Low Countries, to assist in catching and curing the fish. It was well known, that on former occasions, such pervious had returned, and become pilots to the French vessels.Admiral Harvey
 spoke in favour of the Bill.—Leave was given to bring in the Bill.Mr. Wilson
 allowed that if we were at peace, the fisheries might be encouraged with great benefit to the country: but at a time when the foreign markets were shut, and the home markets glutted, the increase of our fisheries could be advantageous neither to the individuals immediately concerned, nor to the public at large. In any case, the association of a joint stock company for the purpose, was unnecessary. Let it once be seen that the undertaking was a profitable one, and individuals enough would be found with capitals ready to engage in it.Mr. Calcraft
 said, his view of the measure was, that it would have the effect of causing less animal food to be produced than was raised at present, while we had no prospect of receiving a foreign supply. He hoped the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would be cautious how he took any step which might, by possibility, tend to injure the agricultural interest. He thought he had not the best information on the subject; and was of opinion the House-ought to. go into a committee on the question, to see if they could not devise some plan more likely to be beneficial and less dangerous than that which had been proposed. He concluded with moving, That the second reading should be postponed to that day six weeks, in order to give an opportunity for further consideration.Mr. Curwen
 thought the question before the House the simplest of all questions, and that nothing could be more fair than that the parties who derived the greatest advantages from the system should be called on to pay for those advantages.Mr. Fuller
 did not know what new evidence could be called before the Committee, and therefore could not accede to the proposition of delay. As to the measure, itself, he wished that no reference whatever had been made to the price of sugar, for there should be no such thing as balancing the colonial and agricultural interests. The agricultural interests should be maintained and preferred; but if it was necessary to get a supply from some other quarter, he thought it not unreasonable that we should take from our colonies rather than our enemies. It had been said that they were now departing from the ancient policy of the country, which was to prevent sugar from coming into competition with grain; but he would deny that that was the policy. There was nothing to prevent them from coming into competition before. He therefore should vote for the original motion.Mr. Barham
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill for amending the 18th of George 2, by extending the provisions of the said Act respecting the expence of Hosting and Poll Clerks at elections, as far as regards the city of Westminster.Mr. Lushington
 wished that time should be given to investigate the subject more minutely; and contended that they ought to place no limitation to the price of grain, in order that its growth might be encouraged. He insisted strongly upon the policy of encouraging agriculture, as the best means of supporting the strength and independence of the country.Mr. Adam
 expressed his conviction that the question was one of the greatest public interest. To encourage our fisheries seemed at the first view of it, a desirable object; but what was the state of the markets? It must be recollected, that if we had driven the enemy out of the sea, the enemy had shut us out of the land. To accumulate a quantity of fish which we could not sell, would not be to encourage, but to destroy our fisheries. The fisheries of Cornwall and of Newfoundland, and the whale fishery, were all prosecuted without joint stock companies; and the establishment of one in the present instance appeared to him to be by no means advisable.Mr. Giddy
 were in favour of the appointment of a Committee.Mr. W. Smith and Mr. D. Giddy
 presented a Petition from the freeholders of the county of Wexford, setting forth, "That at the last election for the county of Wexford, Abel Ram, esq., and William Congreve Alcock, esq., were returned by the sheriff to represent the said county in the present parliament, and afterwards took their seats in the House; and that the said W. C. Alcock, in some time after such election and return, became afflicted with a mental malady, which, notwithstanding the skill and care of his physicians, has ever since continued, and increased to such a degree as to induce the necessity, on part of his family and friends, to sue out a writ of lunacy, for the purpose of vesting his property, and the management thereof, in trustees, the said W. C. Alcock being, from the continuance and increase of such mental disease, totally unfit and incapable of attending to or managing the same, nor is there the slightest hope that he ever will recover; and that the jury impannelled under and by virtue of said writ or commission, have found the said W. C. Alcock to be a lunatic, as by the finding of said jury, and the proceedings under said writ, all returned and remaining of record in the clerk of the Hanaper's-office in Ireland, and to which the petitioners refer, may appear; and that, in consequence of this event, the petitioners beg leave, on behalf of themselves and the other freeholders, to state and submit to the House, that the said county of Wexford ceases to be duly represented in the present parliament, because, by the laws and constitution of the said United Kingdom, it is established, that there should be two knights to represent said county, of which valuable privilege it is in fact deprived by the confirmed insanity of said W.C. Alcock; and praying the House will order a new election to be had to fill the seat of said W. C. Alcock, and for that purpose, that a new writ be issued directed to the sheriff of said county of Wexford, commanding him to return a knight to represent the petitioners and said county in parliament in the place of said W. C. Alcock, or to grant such other and further relief as may be agreeable to justice."Mr. Tighe
683 observed, that the feelings of
683Mr. Tighe
 considered this as one of the blessed effects of the Union, which to Ireland would be a disunion. The promoters of that measure had held out promises which were not fulfilled. They had promised a land flowing with milk and honey, but that promise was not to be found in the British constitution for Ireland. The House then divided:—Mr. Tighe
688 thought the Bill should go no further until enquiry had taken place. It had been said, that the measure was only temporary; but that part of it was permanent which went to introduce sugar in competition with grain in the distillery; and it was to that he had objected. The principle upon which government used to act was to give the corn grower a monopoly, with only one exception; the exception was, when a scarcity was dreaded. The evidence before the House' was altogether against the measure, for every one of the three committees appointed had expressed themselves unfavourable to it, and all persons connected with distilleries had remonstrated against its adoption. For these reasons he wished it should undergo the consideration of six weeks, before the scale was arranged, which was likely to produce so
688Sir John Anstruther
 seconded the motion, and repeated the arguments of the noble lord. In Ireland the mail coaches paid the toll, and why not in this country? If it were apprehended that it might prove an impediment to the rapidity with which the mail travelled, such an inconvenience would be obviated by an arrangement, enjoining the Post-office to pay the trustees of the roads quarterly. He was persuaded, that the exemption prevented the formation of new roads, particularly in Scotland; and instanced a case, in which it had induced him to advise a forbearance from an undertaking of that nature.Sir Patrick Murray
 deprecated the idea that the Bill was called for in consequence of the scarcity of grain, and condemned the right hon. gent. for having introduced it originally as a permanent measure, which the hon. baronet contended he had done.Sir J. Newport
 had no wish to hurry the Bills through the House, in a manner which might preclude their being sufficiently discussed. It was not his intention to move the third reading till after the recess. As there would be a sufficient opportunity thus afforded to consider of, and discuss their merits he thought it unnecessary to postpone the reports.Sir S. Romilly
 brought up the Report of the Dwelling House Robbery Bill.Mr. Lushington
692 presented a Petition, stating "That several Freeholders and inhabitants of the county of Herts, in full county meeting assembled, conscious of the rights they possess of addressing and petitioning the House upon all public affairs, and impelled by a high sense of the duty they owe to themselves and to their country, beg leave to lay before the House their opinions and sentiments on the present defective state of the Representation of the people: to the wisdom and justice of the original design of convening in parliament the representatives of the people to deliberate and co operate with the sovereign and the peers upon every question of national concern, they give their unqualified approbation; but when they take into their consideration the decay of some boroughs, once prosperous and well peopled, the rise and flourishing condition of other places, formerly of little note; when they reflect upon the effects of the heavy and insupportable expence of elections, which closes the doors of the House to many of the best friends of their country, and robs it of their faithful service; and when they recollect the manner in which a large portion of the members obtain and secure their seals in the House, they cannot but be of opinion that time and circumstances have, produced much defect and deterioration in institutions wise and salutary in their first establishment, but which now require revision and amendment; that great and important portions of the community are, in fact, unrepresented in parliament; and that the high and sacred office of a representative of the people is frequently sought for and procured by unconstitutional means, and, having been so procured, is consequently too often perverted from its original design and rendered subservient to private ends and interests: these defects they cannot but consider as a great aggravation of the present dangers and difficulties of the country; to them they ascribe the continuance of a lavish system of expenditure, the many expeditions in which the blood and treasure of our country have been prodigally and fruitlessly wasted, the decision of the House, in direct opposition to the general sentiments of the nation, and, above all, the unwillingness hitherto evinced by the House to enquire into or correct abuses in the representation, an unwillingness which cannot fail to excite the distrust of the petitioners, and to diminish the respect
692Mr. Brand
 had understood that the Bills for ameliorating the laws, of which this was one, were to be so forwarded through the House as to admit of their being discussed in every stage. With this impression on his mind, he was surprised at finding the Report brought up when the House was so thin. He thought the Reports ought to be postponed.Mr. Frankland
693 still thought an opportunity ought to be given of discussing them in every stage, and would therefore
693Mr. Frankland
 supported the motion. It was matter of general observation amongst foreign courts, that a country so wealthy as this was should place her military establishment, as far at least as related to captains in the army, upon an establishment comparatively so low.Mr. Taylor
l704703 said, he felt as strongly as the gallant general himself for the comfort and convenience of the English army. He was sure they deserved well of their country upon all occasions, but at the
l704703Lord Palmerston
706l705confessed that he was not convinced by the arguments of the noble lord either of the impropriety or unseasonableness of the motion made by the gallant general. He did not, therefore, then rise to defend observations which, in his opinion, remained unrefuted; but, in one part of the noble lord's speech he had complained of the ill effects to be apprehended from agitating the discussion of so delicate a subject in that place. This objection to motions originating on that side of the House was certainly by no means a novel one; but it was not for that reason to be the less censured. It was one of those objections which was more to be resisted on account of the principle upon which it rested, than from any force actually in the objection itself. A member of parliament was not to be deterred from pursuing that line of conduct which his own conscientious sense of public duty pointed out to him. He was not to be diverted from that line of duty by vague charges of exciting discontent out of doors. If there was any use in the Commons House of Parliament, it was in the right and opportunity it afforded of discussing all public measures, and investigating all alleged grievances with the freedom of truth. And there could not be a more dangerous innovation upon one of their oldest and most essential privileges, than the attempt to resist the introduction of any question, by creating objections
706l705Mr. Hutchinson
 was of opinion that the proposed mode would not accord with the feelings of military men, and that although the general object was desirable, it ought to be accomplished in a different manner.Sir James Pulteney
708 was in favour of the mo-
708Mr. J. Smith
712slll of the Exchequer, after adverting to the act of the 33d of the King, which required, that soon after the 1st of March 1811, notice-should be given of the expiration of the East India Company's Charter in three years, and of the payment' of the sums due from the public; and after observing that the original sum of 1, 200,000712slllThe Chancellor
710 said, that he did not rise to oppose the motion of the hon. gent., for whom, indeed, he entertained such a respect, as would induce him to further rather than to retard any object which he might have in view. He declared, however, that, with the most sincere wishes for the amelioration of the state of the slaves in the West Indies, he could not avoid thinking the plan proposed by the hon. gent. a visionary scheme; difficult in
710Mr. Browne
 would not consent to pledge government to any such engagement as that described by the horn gentleman.Mr. Dundas
707, notwithstanding any unpopularity which might attach upon, him for delivering the sentiments which he should deliver, would not therefore be deterred therefrom. In a debate, at the conclusion of the last war, it was observed by a noble lord, upon a motion similar in its nature to the present, that the time for such motion was not when the country was at war, but that it would be more advisable to agitate it in time of peace. In that opinion the hon. and gallant general concurred, and he still retained the same opinion. The question, in a war of a protracted nature like the present, ought not to be entertained; at the same time he was disposed to admit, that his brave comrades in arms had cause for complaint, for the pay of the army officers, from the rank of field marshal down to that of ensign, was inadequate. It was not sufficient to support them in the rank which every officer in the British army ought to hold; but if the situation of any one class of officers was to be considered, the whole would have an equal claim, The hon. and gallant general considered, that the increase of salary given to officers in the government, the masters in chancery, &c. was properly so given, but from this motion he must dissent; it ought not to be agitated until the termination of the war. He had lived and served long enough in various situations in the world, not to be well satisfied, that all descriptions of troops were ready and wil-
707General Tarleton
 defended the Colonial Assemblies from the charges which had been preferred against them. He supported the proposition of his hon. friend.Mr. Hibbert
 thought that the object of the House should not be confined to the consideration of what was reasonably sufficient to the comfort and convenience of the army, but what was a sufficient inducement to men to enter into the profession. In another point of view it appeared to him that the nice honour of the military character, and the universal respect paid to it, afforded a material compensation for the necessary difficulties attending it. He had, however, no objection to the proposal of referring the consideration to a Committee.Mr. H. Thornton
 said, that what he had heard advanced against his motion, appeared to him of so little weight, that he could not consent to withdraw it.General Gascoyne
ddsds702lllsdsssdsss701 rose pursuant to notice, to move for a Committee to inquire into the Pay and Allowances to the Land Forces of this country, so far as the same related to sums granted by Parliament. He was sorry that the business had not fallen into hands more able to do justice to it than he was conscious that he was; and he was still more sorry that it had not beer brought forward by his Majesty's ministers. His object, he begged it to be understood, was not to increase the pay of the officers in the army. Deeply as he was impressed with the inadequacy of their pay to their increased expences; he was far from entertaining such an idea. If any increase was to be made, he knew that the proposition would come with infinitely greater propriety from that source whence every thing of the kind ought to emanate—from the crown. The partiality of the King to this branch of our service was so well known, that it would be unnecessary for him to dwell on it. The royal personage, too, who had long held a Commission in the Army, and who was himself a practical soldier, there could not be a doubt, was sensible of, and anxious to afford relief to the officers of our army That royal personage was as practical a soldier as any in our army, and there was nothing which withheld him from participating in the laurels so proudly earned by our brave officers, but the high rank he held in the country; and, he entertained no doubt, that if the royal person to whom he alluded had seen the propriety of proposing an increase to the pay of officers in the army he would have recommended it. Having now stated what was not his object he should go on to state shortly what it was, and should endeavour to draw a comparison between the allowances to the officers of the army now and what they
ddsds702lllsdsssdsss701General Gascoyne
711 admitted, that no one could be more entitled to every deference than the hon. gent. who brought forward this plan, and had so disinterestedly supported the sacred cause with which it had some connection. But he must declare his utter despair of any good resulting from, it. His reasons were these: while slavery-existed in the West Indies, it was impossible that free labour could succeed in competition with it. To prove this, he adverted to the failure of the scheme by which Chinese had been imported into, Trinidad. Notwithstanding their industry in their own country—though, they were not accompanied by wives or children, a negro did as much in a week as one of
711Mr. Stephen
709 rose to bring forward a motion upon the subject of Free Labourers for the West Indian colonies. The great object which he had in view in bringing his plan before the House was, to lay the foundation of a system which would do away the necessity of negro slavery, and totally eradicate it from the islands. He did not wish to interfere with the system at once, but to arrive at it by slow degrees, so that at last the abolition should be complete. In order to effect this, as it appeared to him, a great and desirable object, he should propose to introduce into the colonies a Supply of free Labourers, who might shew to the slaves an example of what voluntary industry could accomplish; and he was the more inclined to this, because of late years, the population had materially de-
709Mr. Barham
 observed, that Mr. Pitt, in the year 1791, gave notice to the East India Company, that their charter would expire in three years; but that no renewal of the charter took place until 1793. He hoped that as long a time would be allowed to elapse in the present instance before Parliament would be called upon to consider the expediency of a renewal of the charter.Mr. Creevey
 expressed his strong detestation of the abominable traffic in human beings, and declared that he should concur in the appointment of the Committee, although he had several doubts, similar to those stated by the hon. gent. who had just spoken, as to the probable result of the investigation.Mr. Huskisson
, after observing that a proposition could come from no quarter more deserving of attention, stated that he would not oppose the motion. But it would not be understood, that the House consented to enter into the inquiry upon an admission of the principles relied on by the hon. gent. who proposed the plan. It might, however, be suggested, that nothing was more dangerous than that a community should be formed wholly of two classes, the high and the low, and that it might be beneficial to establish an intermediate rank. So far the plan appeared at first sight well worthy of attention. Without, therefore, pledging themselves to any particular line of proceeding, the House would enter upon the investigation with the most sincere desire to discover the truth.Mr. Wilberforce
 entertained a similar opinion, and suggested for the consideration of his Majesty's government, whether some alteration would not be desirable in the naval service with respect to the attainment of rank. It was to be observed, a considerable time elapsed before an officer, however high his merits could rise, unless he had friends at the Board. He had known a midshipman obtain no higher rank for a period of 25 years, and yet he was an excellent officer. He thought that the system of gradation and succession should be adopted in our service.Mr. Wilberforce
ll supported the motion, and contended that the present pay was very inadequate to the maintenance of the class of officers, the subject of the motion. Much had been said of honour, but would honour buy a man a coat? The hon. bart. adverted to the estimates for the army, and said that many errors were in those estimates; that many of the regiments had not the complements therein stated, consequently that the public were defrauded. This, he said, he could shew the House. With respect to the increase of pay, it could not amount in the year, by his calculation, to more than 47,000llSir T. Turton
 presented a Petition from the merchants of Bristol trading to the island of Trinidad, setting forth "That the whole body of the inhabitants of the British island of Trinidad, as welt as the merchants of the cities of London, Dublin, Glasgow, Liverpool, Lancaster, and Cork, trading to the said island, have petitioned for the establishment of the British laws therein; and that the system of jurisprudence at present in force in the said island is wholly incompatible with its commercial relations with this country, and highly prejudicial to the interests of the petitioners; and praying the House to afford them relief in the premises, either by addressing his Majesty to place the said island upon the same footing as the other British colonies in the West Indies, or by such other mode as to the House may seem most fitting."Mr. Bathurst
 thought his hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to have said something satisfactory on the subject.Mr. Marryatt
 did not think it necessary to say any thing, as the subject was already under the consideration of his Majesty's government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
717l thought the penalty as proposed by his hon. and learned friend who brought in the Bill would be entirely useless. It would do nothing in the way of preventing the secret circulation of mischievous and dangerous publications. It would only affect those who might err, not from dishonest intention, but inadvertency. The penalty of 20717lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll objected to this proposition, as lodging an enormous power in the hands of the magistrate. The House ought to pause before they armed a magistrate with the power of fining to the amount of from 20llLord Folkestone
l observed, that primers could not but be perfectly aware of the law. They were reading men, and therefore without excuse if they violated the act. But in cases of inadvertency and honest intention, the magistrate would have the power of mitigating the penalties. There might be such cases certainly, and therefore he would further propose, that the magistrates should be empowered to mitigate the penalty to not less than 10lThe Attorney General
l718 understood the provision proposed, to be substituted for the clause under consideration to be this, that the magistrate might still if he pleased, impose
l718Sir Samuel Romilly
l719 agreed with the noble lord that it would be inexpedient and dangerous to leave to the magistrate the power of convicting in penalties to an unlimited extent. It would be taking from juries the right of determining on libels of any description, and giving that right to the justices and to the courts of quarter sessions. To this he could never consent. Determined enemy as he was to the licentiousness of the press, he could never agree to
l719Mr. Lockhart
721 said the noble lord had dealt in general statements only. He wished he could have condescended to state in what way, the claims, of individuals could be brought before the House. The present Bill merely restored to the crown a part of its prerogative of which it was deprived by the act of last session. The Resolution of the committee on which that act was founded, was materially departed from. The, Resolution proposed the nature of the service as the basis of the pension; but the act put all services of whatever nature on the same footing of ten years. A foreign Ambassador's retreat
721Mr. Morris
722 observed, that the House had no sooner passed the first measure of reform, which was founded on the report of their Committee on that subject, than they were required to repeal it. Nevertheless, if that measure could be proved unjust, it ought to be repealed. That was the point which he wished to examine. Unquestionably there were precedents for the measure which it was proposed to rescind. Those who recollected, with him, the parliamentary occurrences of 1783, would remember that, a Bill was then brought in for the regulation of the offices of the exchequer, and for the reduction of the emolument of the Tellers. When that Bill came from the Committee, there was a clause in it, providing that it should not operate against a grant in reversion by his Majesty to lord Thurlow, of a Tellership of the Exchequer. To this clause the House disagreed, notwithstanding the extraordinary exertions of a great lawyer (lord Kenyon), who then advocated the rights of individuals as other lawyers now advocated them; and, as he thought, with too much eagerness. On a division upon this clause, the number in favour of it was 49; that against it 57.—He would repeat what he had stated on a former stage of this Bill; namely, that if parliament took one step in the repeal of the principle of the act passed last session, they must take many more steps. There were many persons affected by that act, whose claims were much stronger than those of the diplomatic individuals to whom the pending bill applied. For instance, previous to the act of last session, the Old Stores were vested in the crown, which had power to grant pensions to various public officers on it. That act (very wisely in
722Mr. Bankes
723 contend-ed, that whatever might be the merits of the Bill before the House, it would not afford such a dangerous precedent as was apprehended by his horn friend. With respect to the operation of the act of last session, on those individuals who had expectances on the fund of old. Stores, he did not believe that the previous practice of government had been such as to in-duce any of those individuals to imagine, that they had a claim on that fund
723The Chancellor of the Exchequer
724 He wished, before the House resolved itself Into the Committee, to tall their attention to a Subject which had already been mention, ed by him once or twice in the course of the session, but on which he had received no satisfactory information. He alluded to the case of a person convicted some time ago of selling guineas—a Mr. De Yonge, This circumstance took place fluting the last session of parliament. The question, however, had not been finally decided upon; a point being reserved to be argued in the Exchequer Chambers. Early in the present session, he had inquired of the Attorney General whether any further proceedings were likely to take place? To this the Attorney General had replied, that he was ready to argue the case whenever called upon by the judges to do so: but as he had not been called upon, he wished now to give notice, that if the point was not decided in the to the ensuing term,
724Lord Folkestone rose,
 thought those who had heard the noble lord most be led to imagine that some improper delay had taken place. When the question was put to him by the noble lord some time ago, the courts were not sitting. It being subsequent to the last term, he had then replied, that the case remained to be argued, and that he was ready to argue it When called upon. He wished it to be observed, that it was impossible for it to have been argued between that time and this, there having been no opportunity since; the one term being ended when the question was put, and the next not begun when the subject was again brought forward. He was not aware the prosecution had been dropped, and expected the point reserved Would be argued In the ensuing term. White on his legs, the House would perhaps allow him to reply to a charge preferred against him some time before by the noble lord, for dropping a prosecution against a Mr. Collier for printing a libel. He had now the satisfaction of saying—satisfaction for himself, as it enabled him to repel the charge—that he had heard the next day, that Mr. Collier had been tried at Lancashire and convicted.The Attorney General
 observed that the statement of the learned gent was irrelevant; and was proceeding to offer Some farther remarks, whenLord Folkestone
725 spoke to order. He was surprised to hear the noble lord complain that the statement of
725The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 insisted that his con duct was perfectly regular.Lord Folkestone
 opposed the clause of confining the magistrate to the levying of one penalty only for every publication, however numerous the copies. If this were to pass, the end of the law would be entirely defeated. No man wishing to circulate a mischievous paper, would be deterred by such a consideration.The Attorney General
ll in order to shew how willing he was to go along with his hon. and learned friend as tar as he could, proposed that the magistrate should, in no case, have the power of imposing more than 25 penalties of 20llThe Attorney General,
 said he had a right now to say what the right hon. gent. had refused to let him say before on the former question.Lord Folkestone
 would be very sorry the noble lord should be refused an opportunity of replying to any thing he had said.The Attorney General
 did not intend to detain the House, The Attorney general had said, that he had charged him with having dropped the prosecution instituted against Mr. Collier, and had seemed to triumph over him on the occasion. The noble lord denied ever having preferred such a charge.Lord Folkestone
 assured the noble lord, that if, on a former occasion, he (Lord F,) had corrected the misapprehension on his part, he (the Attorney General) Would not have brought forward the subject on the present occasion; but as he did not correct him when he mentioned the circumstance before, he had no idea that he had misunderstood the noble lord.The Attorney General
 observed, that he felt no objection to the mode proposed by the hon. gent. considering, as he did, that the question ought to be discussed in a Committee; but, at the Same time, he must remark, that in his opinion, there had been a great and unnecessary delay in bringing forward this motion. He knew that it would not have been regular in any member of 'he House to take the matter out of the hands of the hon. and learned member, who had acted as chairman of the Bullion Committee. Parliament had however, been sitting between nine and ten weeks, and this was the first intimation which the learned gent, had given of bringing that Report under consideration. He had, indeed, before given notice of a specific motion, but this he had thought proper to abandon. The Report had been published five months before the session of parliament, and two more had since passed, during all which time it had excited a deep interest, and had been the subject of very general discussion, and at length the hon. and learned gent, had named a distant day, which would likewise most probably be an inconvenient one, and one on which a full attendance could hardly be expected.Mr. Rose
729 said, that he should not object to the course proposed by the hon. and learned gent. He thought that it might be useful that some interval should take place between the notice for the discussion, and the discussion itself. He had, however, experienced a very strong sentiment of regret at the length of the delay in bringing the
729The Chancellor of the Exchequer
734The prima facie said, that the Bank of England having become of late a great state engine, Parliament had a right to investigate its affairs, if necessary to the public good. It has been said, that not a note more was in circulation than the good of the public required; but he knew the contrary from experience. He could state instances of several clerks who had failed with notes in their hands, to the amount of hundreds of thousands of pounds. It was, in fact, impossible to know the state of any man's affairs, from the facility of discount in the Bank of England. Excess of paper, like excess of every thing else, tended to its depreciation. 734The prima facieMr. Marryatt
 replied, the rule of the House was one thing; its indulgence another. If it was their pleasure, they could then indulge the noble lord. In some instances such, indulgence might be more inconvenient than at others.The Speaker
 requested the noble lord to sit down. It was not regular for a member so to rise. The House was to decide, whether or not its laws should be neglected.The Speaker
 remarked that the noble lord had a right to ask a question, but not to make a second speech.The Speaker
 thought that a loose paragraph in the papers possessed no authenticity but what was conferred on it by the hon. gentleman himself; and conceived that no ground was made out to justify the motion.Mr. A. Baring
 felt it his duty to express his decided disapprobation of the Bill, No claims whatever had, been urged which thus required the interference of parliament. Not 24 hours had elapsed since that House refused to go into a Committee to consider the claims of the officers of our brave army; and the money which they had refused to the claims of these gallant men, they were; now called upon to vote to individuals who had advanced no claim whatever. He trusted that the House would pause before they acceded to a measure of this deseription and he would therefore move as an amendment, That the Bill be read a third time that day six months.Lord Francis Osborne
728 trusted that he should be excused in rising a second time, when it was for the purpose of vindicating himself from imputations, the application of which, if just, he should greatly deplore. Was he fealty deserving of blame for not bringing on such a discussion at ten o'clock at night? (No, no from the Treasury Bench!)—If such an accusation was disclaimed, was it meat to insinuate that he was not prepared for the consideration of the question on an earlier day, than that which he had named? He assured the right hon. gent. that he was perfectly ready to enter on the discussion either on Monday next, or even that might, if it should be deemed desirable by the House. As to the general charge of delay, how did it apply? The Report was published in August, and parliament assembled under peculiar circumstances some time before Christmas. When those circumstances were recollected he did not believe that any hon. member could candidly attribute to him any unnecessary or wilful procrastination. The right hon.
728Mr. Horner
727 stated, that having understood, that his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Abercromby) had given a notice in his, absence of his intention on that day to fix the period and declare the mode in which; he proposed to bring forward this discussion, he now rose to state what appeared, to him to be the most expedient course of proceeding. In the first place, as to the mode, it had been his earlier intention to move for leave to bring in a bill for, the repeal of the Bank Restriction Act. He found since, on consulting with some gentlemen, to whose experience of parliamentary business he was bound to pay the greatest deference, that the most ad visable mode would be to submit some previous Resolutions, expressive of the general opinion, of the House on the question at issue, and which Resolutions might, lay a foundation for a subsequent and more conclusive, series of measures. He apprehended that this would be done in the best manner in a committee of the whole House; and if the fight hon. gent opposite should entertain a similar opinion, he was desirous of making it immediately an order of the day, that the House should go into a committee for this purpose on Monday the 29th of April. If there should be any objection to this suggestion he begged that he might now be considered as giving a general notice on the subject of his intention to bring on the discussion very soon after the recess. As to the consideration of time, he was extremely sorry that a delay of such duration had taken place; but he trusted that when the nature of the business in which parliament at its first assembling, had been engaged, was remembered; and the necessity he was under of attending his professional avocations in the country, he should stand acquitted of blame.—Indeed he could not help thinking that the interval which had thus been suffered to elapse would be far from proving productive of any injurious consequences to the discussion. It had been alledged, that the causes of the present condition of our paper currency were quite of a temporary nature, and it might therefore be well to allow the farce pf this argument to be fairly tried. He had hoped for an opportunity of introducing the question on some day before the recess; but as the present was certainly too late an hour, and there was no clear day before the holidays, he would propose, if the course he had was approved,
727Mr. Horner
 wished in a few words to state his reasons for agreeing in the motion of the hon. gent. at the same time that he declined entering upon the general subject, which he confessed ought to be reserved for the proper occasion, and not debated by piecemeal. He condemned the conduct of the person who had been guilty of such a breach of privilege as the publishing of the document in question; and thought the motion rested upon fair grounds. The hon. gent. had opposed it by stating, that it was not necessary to call for the precise amount of the discounts; but that was not what the motion called far: it did not demand the precise amount, but merely a comparative and proportionate scale. The question then was, whether it was necessary or not? It appeared to him that the evidence which the Directors of the Bank had given proved the necessity of it. They had stated, that it was impossible there should be any excess, the issues being always regulated by the discounts. The only way to shew that their doctrine was true, was to produce an account of the amount of their issues, and a scale of their discounts: and see whether they corresponded. This was rendered still more necessary from what had been stated by the hon. mover, who affirmed, that though the amount of the discounts had been reduced, that of the issues had not. How would the 'Bank of England reconcile this with their doctrine? He should certainly Vote for the motion.Mr. Horner
 observed, that his hon. friend had been most uncandidly and unjustly accused of wishing to delay the discussion. The right hon. gent, was certainly in more haste; he appeared to be very anxious for the argument, but to feel little care as to its being understood. He knew not whether this arose from his confidence in numbers, but the right hon. gent. who so strongly condemned the Report, should have objected to the appointment of the Committee, who had only obeyed the orders of the House in probing the matter to the bottom. The right hon. gent. seem ed to think that when this House had got rid of the Report, no matter how, public opinion would be perfectly settled. He questioned much whether the mere authority of the House would have the effect of setting the question at rest. He must however, do the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the justice to say, that he had not supported his right hon. friend (Mr. Rose) in his attack on the hon. chairman of the Bullion Committee. But he was quite as sanguine in his anticipations of success, and appeared to be elated at the prospect of this tremendous discussion, and a glorious victory on the 29th of April. The right hon. gent. had certainly not been inactive in circulating his own opinions on the subject, or in his endeavours to counteract the impression which the Report of the Committee might have made. Before he sat down he could not avoid saying, that the House and the country were greatly indebted to his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Horner) for the unremitting attention he had paid to a subject which, in its importance to the interests of this country, exceeded any which his parliamentary experience brought to his recollection.Mr. Tierney
l and the Attorney General next agreed, that the magistrate should be allowed to mitigate to 5lMr. Martin
lll716in terrorem had thought himself fully warranted in proposing that there should be only one penalty for each impression. He requested the House to observe, that all the penalties to which printers had been liable before the 39th of the king would still be in force after this bill passed into a law. There would be no additional security for libels. The object of it was to place the law on its former footing, or nearly so. To shew the propriety of this, he called the attention of the Mouse to the history of the act of the 39th of the king, the most material part of which it was the design of this bill to repeal. It had originated from the opinion, that extraordinary vigilance and vigour were necessary to counteract the machinations of seditious societies, who circulated a vast number of papers, the printers of which could never, without great difficulty, be discovered. It was therefore required that as an additional security every printer should be made liable to heavy penalties, who should neglect to put his name to whatever he printed. But, if a libel was published, the printer was still subject to prosecution for that offence as before. These societies no longer existed, and the act being calculated only to meet a particular exigency, ought now to be considerably modified, if not repealed. Let the House consider how the law stood, whilst such enormous penalties might be incurred even by inadvertency. The Attorney General himself, he believed, about two years ago, had found it necessary to bring in a bill to indemnify persons who had violated it. Was it fitting that the act should still be continued on the statute books in its present shape? that it should still be hung up lll716in terroremMr. H. Martin
720ll begged the Committee to consider what Would be the effect of allowing the excessive penalties which the present act permitted. The penalties did not belong wholly to the crown. A moiety went to the informer. If therefore the crown were disposed to remit its share of these penalties, a common informer might sue for his proportion, and this would operate as a perpetual imprisonment on the party offending. Now, it was well known that in cases of libel the term of imprisonment adjudged by the court of King's Bench, seldom exceeded two years. Let the Committee recollect the time and circumstances under which the existing act passed. Its object was to prevent the gratuitous distribution of papers of a seditious tendency, by certain societies, which were enumerated in the act. Those societies had ceased to exist; the evil to be apprehended must therefore have ceased to exist; and he was at a loss to discover on what principle the continuance of such severe enactments could be maintained. If continued at all, the extent of the penalty should be limited. What he was anxious to establish, was, that the offending party should be sued for only one penalty. If the single penalty at present enacted were insufficient, let it be increased. Although he should consent reluctantly, yet he would agree even to the extent of the penalty being made 500720llMr. Martin
715 moved the committal of the Bill to explain and amend an act passed in the 39th year of his Majesty's reign, intituled; "An Act for the more effectual suppression of societies established for seditions and treasonable purposes, and for better preventing
715Mr. H. Martin
 approved of the limitation of discount by the Bank, and defended its conduct in many instances.Mr. H. Thornton
 moved the third reading of this Bill.Mr. Leach
 thought it was not the law of the House, it at least had been the practice, as he had instanced on one or two occasions. He gave it as his opinion, that the noble lord was entitled to suck an indulgence from the practice of the House. He meant no disrespect to the Speaker, but left it to him and to the House to decide.Mr. Whitbread
 proposed that it should only be imperative on the magistrate to impose the penalty for one copy—leaving it in his discretion to carry it beyond this, or even to go the whole length, according as the omission should appear to be an oversight, or to spring from bad intention.Mr. Giddy
732731l730 observed, that if the principle assumed in the Report of the Bullion Committee, namely, that the depreciation of our currency must be tried by the relative value of gold and silver,
732731l730Mr. Huskisson
 in reply said, that he was still at a loss to know what objection could be made to the motion. He called for the document not to create, but to reconcile differences, by throwing additional light on the subject at issue. His hon. friend had complained that he anticipated the discussion upon the great question; itself: all he did was, to say that there were different opinions, without stating any opinion himself upon any of the prints. As to the indiscretion with which he had been charged, in alluding to the printed document, it afforded an opportunity to the members of the Committee to disclaim the transaction for themselves, and he was sure they would be obliged to him for it. He had nothing more to add, but to express his conviction that the document was necessary, and with that declaration he should leave it to the House to determine whether they would grant it or not.Mr. Huskisson
733 begged to be understood, in the course of what he should say upon this question, as having no instruction whatever from the Court of Bank Directors. It appeared to him, that the document moved for, would be attended with great inconvenience, and ought not to be granted, unless called for by the necessity of the case, which at present it was not. The only document that could be said to be necessary, was the amount of the Bank Notes issued, and that was laid before them every year since the passing of the bill. To give an account of the commercial discounts, would be an interference with the internal management of the Bank, and, therefore, should be resisted. He regretted that his hon. friend had thought proper go so much at large into the general question, which he thought ought to be reserved for the proper occasion, when the House was called upon to discuss it distinctly. He allowed that the principle of cash payments should be resorted to when it was practicable, but this was not the period. His hon. friend had said that the Directors would consider, such a proposition an offence; but he was sure that they would always be willing to return to the old system when it could be done with propriety. The motion was unnecessary,
733Mr. Manning
 said, that when the Income Tax was first brought in, it was thought that it would be an injury to commercial men, by obliging them to reveal their affairs; but this was not admitted as a sufficient argument to counterbalance the one of public advantage proposed by the measure, neither should the reluctance of the Bank Directors be available in the present case. He had listened attentively to the hon. gent. (Mr. Manning), but did not hear any positive evil mentioned as likely to accrue from the adoption of the motion: all that was said, was that evil would result; but what the evil would be, was left to their own imaginations. For his part, he did not think that any would result; and on that account, together with the reasons already urged by other gentlemen, he thought that the House had a right to call for the paper.Mr. W. Smith
 approved of the amendment, observing, that this was not the only way of punishing libel.Mr. Wilberforce
738 contended that many advantages would result from the formation
738Sir Charles Burrell
 replied that he had no objection to any motion to that effect being made by the hon. gentleman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that though it was not his intention to oppose the motion made by the hon. gent, yet he could not help thinking that it would have been more decent to have given some short time for previous consideration on the subject. However, he should not now make any opposition, for fear of any misconstruction of his motives, and because he did not apprehend any inconvenience would arise from this communication being made a day earlier than it might otherwise have been.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
739 rose, to call the attention of the House to a subject in which the country was at present very much interested. He did so on this occasion for two reasons. In the first place, he considered it as a great and important privilege of a member of Parliament, at the time the Supplies were voted, to enter upon and discuss any measure or circumstance connected with the state of the country. It was of the greatest consequence that this privilege, founded in practice and no less in the fundamental principles of the constitution, should be frequently exercised, and never permitted to fall into disuse. It was the more necessary now, since the business of the House had been cramped by the new Regulation with regard to Notices, The importance of the subject itself, to which he alluded, was another, reason for taking
739Lord Folkestone
dsl, after stating the circumstances which, had occasioned the. delay in the departure of the Chief Justice of Sierra Leone (Mr. Thorpe), namely the difficulty, which existed in the drawing out of the charter; and, subsequently, the impossibility of procuring an opportunity to go out, none occurring till within the last three weeks, moved, "That 14,495dslMr. Wharton
 explained. Mr. Thorpe had been appointed in 1808, when it was imagined that the charter would be executed in a very short time. In the first place, however, there was found considerable difficulty in preparing the bill of instructions. This occupied three months. It was then submitted to the Attorney General, afterwards to Lord Ellenborough and lastly to the Lord Chancellor, by whom several doubts were entertained with respect to different parts of the instrument; and which doubts occasioned an additional delay of near a twelvemonth. During the whole of this period Mr. Thorpe was entirely precluded from taking any other situation; liable as he was to be called on at a day's notice to go out to Sierra Leone. Nothing could be more just, therefore, than that he should enjoy the same salary as if he had been in the actual execution of his office.Mr. Wharton
 reprobated the delay which had taken place. If, in the interval, justice had been ill administered in Sierra Leone, the delay was criminal; if it had been well administered, the appointment of a Chief Justice was unnecessary. A more suspicious case never, in his opinion, came before parliament: and as an hon. friend below him (Mr. Dent) had given notice for an inquiry into the situation of the colony, he trusted that the Committee would not vote so large a sum as that required, until the inquiry had taken place.Mr. Abercromby
ll said, that whatever might be thought of the propriety of an establishment like Sierra Leone, as it had for its object no less than the moral improvement of the coast of Africa, it became necessary to put it on as liberal a fooling as the other colonies of his Majesty. With respect to the particular appointment now complained of, he observed that 1,500llLord Castlereagh
 spoke of the insulabrity of the climate of Sierra. Leone, which he knew from his own experience Of 1,500 persons who were originally sent from this country to that colony, only 15 survived in the year 1788; and he him-self should have fallen a victim to the mate had he not taken a sudden departure.Sir J. C. Hippesley
 said, it did not follow that because the business of the Chief Justice was carried on in his absence, it was therefore unnecessary. With regard to the individual appointed, it would be very hard first to engage him and then to deduce his salary all the time he was detained in England. As to the magnitude of the sum, it would certainly be a great moral as well as a great political evil, if the who administered justice between man and man were not sufficiently independent above necessity.Mr. Peel
 declared, that he should be very happy to have this subject inquired into, and settled in such a manner as to prevent the annual discussions that took place upon it. Whatever might be the result of that inquiry, however, he could not but recommend to the Committee to adopt the present vote; for otherwise half the year must elapse before the communication of any diminution in the grant could reach the colony, to which period, and indeed until the return to this country of those persons whom the diminution would cause to return, the salaries of the different officers, &c. must, in justice be paid at the old rate. Of the good faith, as well as of the policy of maintaining the colony, be had no doubt. Many persons, Maroons and others, had taken refuge in the colony, and the expence of removing them, in the event of abolishing the colony, would be nearly equal to that of the colony itself. The necessity of appointing to the vice-admiralty courts, persons by whom justice would be administered, was obvious; and a small salary was not a sufficient inducement to any respectable individual to accept a situation of that nature. Whatever might be the result of the inquiry of his hon. friend, he saw no reason lot postponing the present grant.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 begged to repeat his former question, whether the chief justices of the other colonies were resident ins them?Mr. Abercromby
 said he could not state distinctly whether all were, or not; but he was positive, that the greater number were, and he believed they all were.Mr. Wharton
 said, that all were resident but the one of Dominica.Mr. Peel
lllllllsl moved,lllllllslThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 congratulated the House on the statement of his right hon. friend, and the proofs then before them of the prosperous condition of the finances; but he begged leave to observe, and to press upon their consideration, that though our resources were large and prosperous, it was necessary to exercise the greatest economy in their application. He wished that the corresponding sums of this last year's produce should be laid before the House, and was desirous to know whether the fines for the militia were included, which he understood amounted to two or three millions.Mr. Bankes
 read the corresponding sums, but said that he had no conception that the fines for the militia were so great as his hon. friend had represented. With respect to the question Whether those fines were included in the present statement? he observes that such as were paid into the Exchequer were certainly comprehended in it, but he could not say whether those which were paid into the Bank were considered part of the consolidated fund.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l743 said, that economy should be undoubtedly a paramount object with that House; but it was also Bound to provide For the necessary
l743The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the third reading of this Bill.Sir. S. Romilly
744 said, that though he agreed in the general principles staled by his hon. and learned friend, he differed from him in the application of them to the present subject. The certainty of punishment should, be observed, but that certainty would not be facilitated by the Bill. This was not a question of practical, but of speculative humanity, for it did not profess to make the practice conformable to the theory, but the theory to the practice. It was urged, that prosecutions would be increased by lessening, the, punishment: but that he denied, as far, as his experience went; and if prosecutors, juries, judges, and witnesses were affected by such a circumstance, he did not see why it should not be supposed to have an influence upon offenders themselves The, terror of the law operated in the, best way that law could operate, namely, to prevent the commission of crimes, It had been said, that one object of the Bill was, to diminish the discretion of judges. He was sure, that no greater be on could be granted to them than such a step, if it could be done without materially injuring the country at large; but, in his opinion, the loss or limitation of their discretion would be attended with, the worst consequences. He agreed, however, in one thing with his hon. and learned friend.
744Mr. Secretary Ryder
 thought that the legislators of the present day should give some credit to the wisdom of our ancestors, who had made and acted upon the law as it now stood. He doubted whether crimes were numerically increased, but he was certain their depth of dye was not; and this he attributed to the calculations which culprits made between the crimes which were punished capitally, and those which were not. He objected to venturing on an unknown sea, and repealing a law which had the sanction of antiquity. If he did agree to it, it should be only as an experiment for one or two years, but even that he feared would have a tendency to unsettle the minds of the people.Mr. Lockhart
 thought it very natural that many lawyers should come forward upon a question materially connected with their profession. With respect to the Bill itself, he believed it would have a tendency to increase and not to lessen crimes; for it would remove the terror of death which operated most strongly upon the most hardened offenders. They would always make a distinction between the possibility of escaping death and the certainty that they could not be punished by it. As to passing sentence on those not intended to be executed, an hon. and learned friend of his had described on a former night its effect on a young woman; from whence he (the Attorney General) would infer that it might operate in many cases to deter the individuals from future offences. As to the objection of the unwillingness of prosecutors to come forward, it applied equally to the whole of the criminal law. He thought the opinions of the Recorder and Common Serjeant entitled to considerable weight and was somewhat surprised that his hon. and learned friend did not endeavour to procure the opinion of the Judges on a matter of such importance.The Attorney General
745 expressed himself strongly in favour of the measure. The advantage of the milder system of criminal law was evident from the effect which it had produced in a neighbouring country. In the year 1802 he was in Amsterdam, and he learned, that for many years but two instances of capital punishment had occurred there. Imprisonment and hard labour were substituted for capital punishment;
745Mr. Marryatt
 supported the Bill. He expressed himself decidedly hostile to the attaching the punishment of death to offences of a comparatively trifling nature. Much practical ill had arisen from the criminal law, as at present constituted, by occasioning those numerous instances of perjury which every gentleman must be aware of.Mr. Wynn
 felt if his duty to oppose the Bill, on the ground of its being the proposition of a certain number of speculating individuals, who were totally unconnected with great interests of the county; and because it was in direct contradiction to the wishes, the opinions, and the interests of the principal land holders. He hoped the House would not countenance this Bill, which was part of a system now very much acted on of pushing forward measures contrary to the sense of the great majority of the chiefly interested: he therefore would propose as Amendment, "That this bill be read a second time this day six months."Lord George Cavendish
 denied that the Bill was brought forward by, speculators and said that it had the sanction great names as the duke of Norfolk and lord Egremont. He maintained that the Canal would be of eminent advantage in conveying a principal part or the lading the East and West India outward bound fleets; and hoped that the Bill would be suffered to go into a Committee; in order that its merits might be fairly considered.Mr. Sumner
 moved the order of the day for the second reading of the Grand Southern Canal Bill.Mr. Sumner
 said, he had received a letter from the country of a similar nature with that to which the noble lord had adverted. The Speaker then left the chair.Mr. G. Vansittart
 would vote for the grant before the investigation, because he did not wish to inspire in the colony a distrust of the firmness of its establishment. He admitted that the climate was unhealthy; but not to the extent which had been represented. Certain it was that the number of the Maroons and Nova
Mr. H Thornton
 recommended a strict adherence to economy, and expressed his apprehension that the increase was not really great as it appeared to be.Mr. H. Thornton
742ll trusted that, when the subject came. to be discussed, the hon. gentlemen opposite would bring proofs of of those assertions, which, thrown out as they now were (unfairly, in his opinion), might make au unfavourable impression on the public mind. Of all the preposterous suppositions which he had ever heard, that of the Nova Scotia blacks, who formed the large mass of the population of Nova Scotia, being slaves, was the most extraordinary. There never was less cause, for imputing partiality to government, than in the appointment of Mr. Thorpe to the Chief Justiceship of Sierra Leone; an appointment which; was the single exception to the recommendation of the benevolent individuals who were the proprietors of that settlement before its transfer to government. The abolition of the Slave Trade had rendered it indispensable to establish a prize court on the; coast of Africa; and Sierra Leone was of course selected as the most proper place. For the purpose of economy it had been determined to combine the offices of chief justice and judge of the prize court. The noble, lord (Castlereagh) had requested him to find out, if possible, some person who was qualified for those situations, and who would accept them. It might be presumed that he had not been remiss in the inquiry. But the nature of the climate, the state of civilization, and other circumstances, formed such powerful objections, that among all those individuals in the profession, who had given an earnest of talent, he could not find one who was disposed to go to Sierra Leone. Nor was this surprising, when the difficulty of filling up the appointments of judges of he prize courts of the West Indies was considered, although those situations had salaries of 2,000742llMr. Stephen
 did not agree in opinion with the hon. baronet, that any of those advantages would result from the proposed canal, the chief part of which, according to his statement, would affect the Sussex part of the line, for which a Bill should be brought in next year, as they were obliged to vary the notices; so that the only part which could proceed, if this Bill was carried through, would be the offensive part, namely, that part which was to run through the county of Kent. It was farcical to talk of the communication of Northfleet, and Woolwich, and Chatham, with Portsmouth, by means of this canal; for a canal from Croydon would answer all those purposes without cutting up 1,400 acres of land. The fact was, that not one of the great landed proprietors in Kent were favourable to the measure; and if the county members were not absent from indisposition, there was no doubt of their opposing it in their places. Neither were any of the principal towns of Sussex likely to be benefited by it, as it was to run parallel to the sea. The great objection was, that there was no landholder in favour of it; and though the duke of Norfolk and lord Egremont had compromised with the projectors of this Canal, they had been originally adverse to it, and their names were only made use of now to give a colour to the business, and to assist in cramming it down the throats of those who were adverse to it. He hoped, therefore that the House would set its face against the system of which this was a part.Mr. Calcraft
740 observed, that, until the charter was signed, the appointment of the Chief Justice could not be considered
740Mr. Dent
 observed, in explanation, that one of the objects which he, had in view in the intended inquiry was to give protection to the Maroons in their present situation. The report at present was, that they were treated like slaves.Mr. Dent
 thought that the fatality of the climate was a strong reason for entering into an inquiry as to the expediency of maintaining the settlement.Mr. Fuller
, opposed the Bill, and said that he did not believe that there were two landholders in the county of Kent favourable to it. He knew no recompense which could be made for the injuries which would be done to extensive and beautiful plantations which this Canal would destroy. There were other objections arising from the variety of projectors, and neglect forms of the House, which induced, him vote for the Amendment.Mr. Hurst
 rose to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was his intention to make any communication to the House, on the subject of his Majesty's health By the Regency Act the Queen's Council were required to make a Report to the President of the Privy Council, in the first week of April, as to the state of his Majesty's health. This Report must now have been made; and with a view to the regulation of his own conduct, he wished to know whether it was intended to lay this communication before House.Mr. Whitbread
 replied, that when the right hon. gent, made his new arrangement relative to Notices and Orders of the Day, several members had distinctly Stated to him that they would not feel themselves bound at all" times to give a previous notice. As the right hon. gent, himself did not object, and as this motion would not interfere with any particular business expected to be the subject of discussion this evening, he thought he could not have chosen a fairer occasion to assert his privilege. But he wished it to be clearly understood, that without disrespect to the House or any individual, he considered himself at liberty to move without notice on any day, and on any occasion whatever.Mr. Whitbread
 then moved "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying that he would be graciously pleased to order that there be laid before the House copy of the Communication made by her
Mr. Whitbread
lllll was sorry to thirds that the member for Yorkshire (Mr. Wilberforce) and the rest of those who had at: thieved so glorious a victory as the Abolition of the Slave Trade, were unable to prevent this establishment from being job, and from being a constant reproach to the country. In consequence of impositions, it was found necessary to transfer the management of the colony to government. Yet the same impositions seen to be continued. The argument he had heard from the hon. gent, who spoke last was like all the arguments which, during the lime he had been in parliament, he had constantly heard from ministers, in which the interest of the public was nothing and the interest of the individual every thing. Such an argument however did not give him satisfaction. It appeared, that Mr. Thorpe did not seem inclined to meet the climate of Sierra Leone Where was the necessity of removing this gentleman from Canada before every thing was ready for his departure to Sierra Leone A great deal had been said of judicial splendour; dignity, and so forth; but let the House
lllllMr. Whitbread
sl said he had not hitherto taken any part in these discussions, because he thought other gentlemen more competent to deliver their opinions than he could be; but he could not help now offering a few words to the consideration of the House. He was astonished at the array of lawyers that always opposed his hon. and learned friend; and he was no less astonished at hearing his hon. and learned friend's opinions termed theoretical; and he was as much astonished at
slMr. Whitbread
 thought the amount of the fines could not be so great as had been stated.Mr. Frankland
 could not agree that the Bill would have no practical effect. The law, as it stood at present, was calculated to introduce a sort of gambling into vice, in consequence of the uncertainly of punishment. He defended his hon. and learned friend from the imputation of intending to change the laws of his country; and maintained that his only object was to give the country a practical code. It had been said that laws should be severe; but when they were too much so the sympathies of the people were driven to the side of the criminal, and they were sent away rather shocked than reformed.Mr. Wilberforce
 expressed the highest satisfaction at finding that the subject was likely to undergo a thorough investigation. He wished the public to be satisfied that justice, humanity, and every other liberal consideration, conspired to render it necessary to apply a considerable sum, for many years to come, to the purposes of that colony. He denied that there had been any bad management in the early period of the existence of the Sierra Leone Company. The directors of the Company had every year shewn their accounts to their constituents, who expressed themselves perfectly satisfied, and from whom they always parted in good humour. The formation of colonies had always been found a matter of great difficulty, although frequently undertaken by men of the greatest talents. That of Sierra Leone had already been of the greatest benefit to Africa. If it was of service to Africa to abolish the Slave Trade, the establishment of the colony of Sierra Leone had materially contributed to that service, by affording an opportunity of observing more accurately the transactions connected with it; and of viewing whole districts depopulated by the civil wars stirred up by that shameful traffic. He repeated his joy that the affairs of the colony were to be investigated by a Committee of that House. They would see the necessity of doing something to compensate in some degree to Africa the evils which we had formerly occasioned her. He well knew, that a great and lamented friend of his (Mr. Pitt) had cherished intentions of the most beneficent nature towards Africa, and that it had been in his contemplation, whenever, the Slave Trade should be abolished propose to parliament the application considerable sum of money to the purpose of civilizing that unhappy quarter of the globe.Mr. Wilberforce
 compared the salary of the chief justice, of Sierra Leone with that of the chief justice of other colonies, in order to prove that the sum allowed was by much too large. He thought the grant should not be made until the investigation had taken place.Sir. J. Newport
 thought it was a great practical evil that juries should be exposed to perjury. He instanced several cases in which verdicts had been given contrary to evidence, for the purpose of avoiding the capital-parts of the charges, and hoped his hon. and learned friend would persevere in his intention.Sir J. Newport
750 rose, pursuant to notice, to submit a motion relative to the pay of Officers of the Navy on foreign stations. In consequence' of the fluctuation of the foreign exchanges, or rather the depression of them against this country, the officers of the navy on the Mediterranean station, and at Lisbon, actually suffered a loss of about 30 per cent. on all pay remitted to them. All that he desired, was, that the navy should
750Captain Bennett
 said that he felt as much for the honour and comforts of the navy as any man, and had done all that lay in the power of his humble efforts to promote them. He therefore trusted that he should not be considered an enemy to the navy, although he must oppose the present motion. On some stations the exchange was in favour of the officer, and on the Jamaica station in particular, it had been pretty permanently 12 per cent. in their favour. The calculation of the allowances to be made to the naval officers would be extremely difficult, as there was no pay master as in the army.Mr. Rose
752 said, that the navy had been now four years suffering from this grievance; how long, then, he asked, were they still to suffer from the commercial system of the gentlemen on the other side of the House? He had frequently heard of the cold calculations of the cabinet The memorials of the navy officers on this subject had been passed over in silence
752Captain Bennett
 said, the officers of the navy had been ill used by the House, in the deduction which had been made from their shares of prize money, merely for the sake of popularity.Sir C. M. Burrell
 observed that the manner in which the previous question was put, was not peculiarly gracious; nor did he ever recollect a question so completely converted into a party question, after the expression of so strong a determination to the contrary. The gallant captain had so far forgotten his original determination, that he did not hesitate to complain of the cold blooded feeling and calculation of the Treasury, though nothing could be more unjustly imputed to them in anything relating to the interests of the navy. As to the hon. gent, who sat next the gallant officer (Mr. Whitbread) after having first transferred his motion to his learned friend (Mr. Adam), he determined that incase of a certain answer to his question he would vote against his own motion; and afterwards went so far as to promise not only for himself but for his learned friend. As the previous question appeared to him the handsomest way of meeting the subject, he would engage that if the hon. gent, would vote against his own motion he would vote for it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the objections of the distillers arose from the fear of illicit distilleries, and the introduction of spirits from Scotland; but those were matters for the revenue to guard against. The legislature had for centuries past been in the habit of intermeddling with the agriculture, and the propriety of doing so upon the present occasion rested upon a strong ground, that of preferring our own colonies to foreigners.Mr. Rose
754 contended, that if the waste land in this country were cultivated, it would be as productive as could be desired, and consequently supersede the necessity of having recourse to foreign markets for a supply. He was against the
754Mr. Western
s wished to make a few observations upon one or two points which had been adverted to in the course of the debate. He denied that the measure would have the effect of forcing the consumption of sugar, but even supposing that was the ultimate object, it could only apply when the price of barley was above 38sThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the measure, convinced that the complaints of the landed interest were in a great measure groundless, and the claims of the West India proprietors well founded.Mr. Marryatt
sss observed, that notwithstanding all the gloomy predictions of the opposers of this Bill, at the time the measure of 1808 was brought forward, the enterprise of farmers had not declined; and therefore he was of opinion, that the fears of these honourable false prophets were to be received with considerable caution. This measure, as well as that, was founded on the fact of a large importation of corn. No man felt more strongly than he did the claims of the West India proprietor" on the justice of that House. He was persuaded they ought to be let into a competition with the foreign corn-importer. An average of 30sssLord Binning
 suggested that the hon. member had spoken already upon the subject.The Speaker
 said, he was not aware of more than two memorials having been presented from officers on foreign service.Mr. Yorke
parldsdspar was convinced that no party considerations were mixed with the present question. Every man must feel for the honour and comforts of the navy, and in this feeling he partook as much as the gallant officer, or any other man. The gallant officer must have known, that what he had proposed, it was not in the power of the Admiralty to do, and that it could only be done by that House. Before he adverted to the situation of officers employed in the Mediterranean, he should first generally state, that before the year 1795, the officers, as well as the ship's company, only received their pay when the accounts were closed at the end of the year, but by that Act they were allowed to draw on the Navy Board quarterly for the amount of their pay. Until this regulation, the officers in the Mediterranean, as well as on other stations, were indeed exposed to considerable hardships, both upon this account and on account of the unfavourable state of the exchanges. In 1800 and 1801 the price of the dollar rose in the Mediterranean and Levant, and the exchange had been sometimes favourable, although he must allow, that for many years back the dollars had been above the parldsdsparMr. Yorke
in loco parentis749in loco parentis moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the state of Parish Apprentices. Formerly the parish children, who were put out as apprentices, were bound either to masters resident in their own, or in the adjoining parishes. The overseers appeared to have forgotten, that it was their duty to stand in some measure in loco parentis749in loco parentisMr. Wilbraham Bootle
 stated his determination to vote for a Committee.Admiral Harvey
 said, he had forborne from alluding to the other questions as he thought that if our officers on foreign service experienced any loss, let it proceed from what source it would, they ought to be indemnified.Mr. Horner
 supported the motion, al-though he was generally in favour of increases of pay and allowance originating with ministers, and not in that House. He certainly did not think that it would be right to be calculating minute variations of exchange, but that when a very strong case was made out for relief, as he conceived this to be, he thought the officers should not be permitted to suffer so very considerably.Mr. Horner
 observed, that on the average of the last eleven years, a sum of four millions yearly had been paid to the enemy for corn. Last year the sum was seven millions; one year it was ten millions; but on the whole it was forty millions and upwards. All that the West India proprietors asked was, to be let into one fifth of this sum, and the remaining four fifths would, he contended, be sufficient to encourage agriculture. There was no measure likely to be more effectual than this against the enemy; who never impeded the export of grain, nor had any objection to receive our coin and bullion, but vigorously excluded all colonial produce.Mr. Hibbert
 thought the question premature, as there was another question depending by which this would be materially affected. He therefore thought that the other should be decided before the present was entered upon.Mr. H. Thornton
751 said, the hon. gent, had not refuted any one of the arguments of the right hon. gent, who preceded him; and on one or two occasions, had shewn that he completely misunderstood him. On one of these occasions, after a long tirade, he had felt the necesity of confessing his ignorance of what, perhaps, every body in the House but himself completely understood. He rose at present to take notice of an unfair construction that had been attempted to be put upon his meaning, when the hon. gent, first charged his right hon. friend with having said, that all the officers of the navy would become money brokers; and then attempted to convert his (Mr. Groker's) dissent into an expression that there might be some. The expressions make use of by his right hon. friend; were very different from those assigned to
751Mr. Croker
753 said that the mere principle was to put commodities upon a fair footing. Gentlemen should not affect to think so lightly of our West India colonics; they had given more than their one share of support in carrying on the war, as affording a market for our manufactures, and a nursery for our marine. They all saw how Buonaparté valued a West India colony, while he had one, never sparing a ship or a man to retain
753Mr. Fuller
parl hoped that this question might be discussed without any considerations of party. He did not wish to oppose himself to the administration of the right hon. gent., whose conduct in his department he had always heard spoken of with the greatest approbation. He thought it was due to the right hon. gent, to say so much in praise of his general administration of the Admiralty, yet in the present instance he must entirely disagree with him. If the present motion had come from that right hon. gentleman, he was sure that it would have been agreed to by the House without any opposition. He could see no reason why the officers of the navy should not have the same allowances as the officers of the army. The right hon. gent, seemed to think that their superior accommodation on board ship, where their lodging and food was provided for them, was a sufficient reason for a difference. He, however, thought otherwise, for doubtless all those things were taken into consideration when the pay of the two services were fixed. As to the chance of the exchanges rising in time, that was nothing to the officers now serving. It was a poor comfort to the officers who were losing 30 per cent. out of their pay by serving their country in the Mediterranean, to tell them that some time or another officers might possibly gain by the exchanges becoming favourable. When the right hon. gent, said, that probably the exchange would again rise to be in favour of this country, he must say, that he could see no such probability Sup-pose that an expence would be incur-red by this means of 30 or 40,000parlMr. Whitbread
 declared his intention of moving the previous question, that the gentlemen opposite, who seemed to think it premature, might have an opportunity of supporting it hereafter. He was proceeding in his observations, whenMr. Whitbread
 said, he should vote for the previous question, if he understood the hon. gentlemen correctly, and might hope to have their support to the motion on a Future occasion; and this he understood to be the feeling of his learned friend.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that understanding the gentlemen opposite in the same way that his hon. friend had, he should afford them the opportunity, by moving the previous question.Mr. W. Adam
 said, he declined giving any pledge as to his vote, upon any future occasion; and repeated that he thought the measure premature.Mr. Huskisson
 conceived, that great difficulty would arise, if we were to think of adjusting the pay of officers to the incessant variations of foreign exchange. In some cases it would be equivalent to an advance of 30 per cent. on their pay, to the disadvantage of the country; in some, of course, a diminution. They could not be paid in bullion, without a serious loss-in its purchase. The measure proposed would have the effect of introducing a certain kind of money-brokerage into the service; If the measure proposed had any foundation with respect to the officers in the Mediterranean, there was no reason why it should not reach to all officers, naval and military, abroad. The question was connected with that of exchanges, and was extremely extensive. He concluded by recommending the motion to be withdrawn.Mr. Huskisson
l quoted the opinions of the corn distillers themselves, who represented the measure as a death blow to their trade, if carried into execution. Within the last forty years there were only three prohibitions, a circumstance which formed a kind of prescription in, favour of corn distilleries. He went into a minute calculation to prove, that by
lMr. W. Smith
 considered the corn laws and the distillery laws as parts of one system of laws. Ever since the Revolution, they had been considered in that light. In various periods of scarcity, viz. 1699, 1757, 1705, and 1800, the export of corn was prohibited, as well as the distillation from spirit. He did not wish this country to fee dependent on the enemy; and was of opinion, that instead of interfering with the interests of agriculture, as they would by such a measure as this, they ought to encourage the cultivation of corn.Mr. W. Taylor
 stated his objections to the measure. He estimated the whole amount of grain used in Distilleries at 800,000 quarters in the year, which could not amount to less than a million and a half of money. To interfere with this was a serious matter; and would be at-tended by the most pernicious consequences to society at large.Sir John Sinclair
 deprecated the spirit of intermeddling with the agriculture of the country.Sir John Newport
l757756755 spoke nearly to the following effect:—Mr. Lushington; In rising to submit to the consideration of the Committee the gracious Message of the Prince Regent, and to call upon them to second the views of his Royal Highness towards the suffering Portuguese—views which are as congenial with the liberality of his own nature as with that of the sovereign he represents, and of the people over whom he governs, I am sure I have no difficulties to anticipate, no obstacles to remove, and no prejudices to encounter; I am sure there is not a man in the country, from the highest to the lowest, who will not approve of the proposition I shall submit, and willingly contribute his share towards the furtherance of a measure founded equally in policy, in humanity, and in justice. I cannot conceive a motive by which one country should be induced to assist another in distress, which does not apply to the case immediately before us; whether we proceed upon the calculations of a narrow policy, or the estimates of a true economy, or the more enlarged and enlightened principles of moral duty, the rela-
l757756755The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said: Sir; In rising to second this measure, I beg leave to express my concurrence in the sentiments delivered by the right hon. gentleman, and in the vote proposed. It is a measure not less due to the spirit of Portugal, than to the magnanimity and generosity of Great Britain; it is as consistent with our interest as it is material to our honour. The only regret with which it is accompanied, on my part, proceeds from the reflection, that the vast expenditure of this country should render it necessary to limit the vote to so small a sum.Mr. Ponsonby
 expressed his acknowledgements to the hon. and learned, gentleman, for the candour of his communications; and assured him, that the Resolutions he intended to propose
The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, as it could not be expected that gentlemen were prepared to state their sentiments, without reference to the propositions of his hon. and learned friend, that it would be desirable that the Resolutions should, in some way or other, be put in the hands of gentlemen disposed to discuss the question.Mr. Vansittart
 having been prevented from delivering his opinion on the subject of the affairs in Portugal on a former night, begged to be allowed to avail himself of the present opportunity to say a few words on this head. He was the more inclined to trouble the House on the present occasion, from observing how greatly the expectations of many gentlemen had been, exceeded by the conduct of the Portuguese troops, to whose zeal, spirit and gallantry lord Wellington had borne such ample testimony. He could not but recollect that some gentlemen had been pleased greatly to disparage the efforts and services of our allies in the Peninsula, and had even gone the length of predicting that no advantage whatever was to be expected from their co-operation. How pleasingly and satisfactorily those predictions had been answered, and proved to be unfounded, it would be needless for him now to endeavour to point out. An hon. and gallant general (Ferguson) who had at one time been impressed with this unfavourable idea of the Portuguese nation, had, with that magnanimity which was natural to him, retracted his error, and done justice to the zeal and spirit of the Portuguese. He had gained a victory more honourable to him than twenty conquests in the field of battle; he had triumphed over his prejudices and prepossessions, and he was not above confessing the victory, and making every atonement: in his power. He hoped that other gentlemen would follow so meritorious a conduct, and also retract the opinions, expressed by them on this subject. The happy effects produced by the organization of the Portuguese troops had been already seen and felt. Let us hope that similar results might occur in another part
Mr. Canning
758 wished to state, for the information of the right hon. gentlemen opposite, the substance of the Resolution which he should have the honour of pro-
758Mr. Horner
ds said, he had waited for some time, expecting to see in the House a noble lord (Folkestone) who had expressed an anxiety as to the supply of silver coinage. He now thought it his duty to inform the House, in answer to what had fallen from that noble lord, that the Bank was in the course of having a large quantity of silver tokens or dollars stamped, for the purpose of putting them into circulation at the rate of 5dsMr. Manning
759 stated his intention to propose Resolutions on the subject of the Bullion Report on Monday next, in case those of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Horner) should not be adopted. Having only very lately seen the Resolutions of his hon. and learned friend, he was not prepared as yet to state exactly what the nature of his own Resolutions would be but he would read them to the House on Friday, after which they might be printed, so as to be in the hands of members previous to the discussion. In the mean time he was desirous that some facts already sufficiently notorious should be brought formally under the view of the House, and would therefore move for some papers. An Account of the number of Bank notes in circulation between February and August 1785–6—2d, the average amount in circulation in 1799, 1800–1–2—3d, an account of the average amount between 1797 and 1810—4th, an account
759Mr. Vansittart
 said they were matters of notoriety. Gentlemen might, by glancing over one page, see the situation of the exchanges at different periods.Mr. Vansittart
 admitted that there was some weight in what had been said by the right hon. gent., but he tnought it better to wait till they heard what the Resolutions of his hon. friend were before they postponed the discussion. Finding that the view taken of the subject by his hon. friend (Mr. Vansittart) coincided with his own, he had requested him to draw up Resolutions accordingly, and it had so happened, that this was the earliest moment he could apprize the House of his intention.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 pledged himself that nothing should be wanting on his part to put them in every state of forwardness.—The motion was then agreed to.Mr. Vansittart
 replied, that there were no complaints of the want of places to dispose of the commodities alluded to, though he ports were so few; for the merchants found customers enough. With respect to the second question, he was not prepared to answer it.Mr. Rose
 spoke only on the supposition that they were to be the contrary of those proposed by his hon. and learned friend. If they should turn out unexpectedly not to be so, certainly the foundation of his suggestion would be gone.Mr. Tierney
 said that though the hon. gent. wished to elucidate his own view of the subject from these papers, others might see cause to use them for the elucidation of another view. He did not refuse to grant the paper; but the time even for the consideration of the hon. gentleman's Resolutions was very short. He was as anxious as any one that the House should come to a speedy decision on this subject; but, at the same time, it was necessary that they should be thoroughly aware of whatever was to be proposed on either side. If the hon. gent then intended to propose Resolutions contrary to those of his hon. and learned friend, and could not state them till Friday, he suggested whether it-might not be advisable at once to delay the discussion for a day or two.Mr. Tierney
760 thought that there should be the earliest notice given of Resolutions of such great and acknowledged general importance as those to be proposed by the right hon. gent. He did not accuse the right hon. gent, of taking the House by surprise—very far from it; but still it was to be lamented that they were not already before the public, in order to enable them to form a fair judgment upon them, com-
760Mr. H. Thornton
 expressed a wash that the resolutions might be ready for printing on Friday.Mr. Huskisson
 observed, that there were only three ports in Portugal to which the exports of Ireland, such as woollen, cotton, and leather, could be sent. He wished, therefore, to now, whether any greater facilities would be afforded to the manufacturers and merchants of Ireland to dispose of their commodities? He also wished to know whether any steps were taking respecting the engrossing of brandies by the Oporto merchants?Sir John Newport
 remaked, that these were called for at so late a period; that it would be impossible for his hon. and learned friend to avail himself of whatever light they might throw on the question.Sir J. Newport
dllllll761 rose to move for the production of an account of the Exchequer bills in the Bank of England, for a certain pe-wed. The hon. gent. conceived that it would be necessary-to make only a few observations by way of preface to his motion, reserving to himself-the right of replying to any arguments which might be adduced against it. The amount of Bank notes in circulation for the four years succeeding the period at which his motion would commence (1797), was from 11 to 13 millions. Previous to the passing of the Bank Restriction Act, they only amounted to 8 millions; and it appeared from the documents produced, that, at the latest period to which those documents were made up, they amounted to from 22 to 24 millions. The-effect of the depression of the coinage was the rapid increase of this species of circulating medium, and yet so unconscious was the deputy governor of the Bank of this boon of the ministers, that he attributed the depression to the unlimited grant of foreign licences, and not to the alarming increase of Bank notes. The great evil which the public sustained by this increase, was the advance in price of every commodity. The directors of the Bank, however, denied the fact; for they assert that the advance of price is owing to other causes, and they contend that there is not a note more in circulation than what is required for the service of the public. One of the great evils of this circulating medium is the facility which it affords to the company to purchase up ail the Exchequer Bills which may be brought into the market. Since the discounts have failed them, in consequence of many of their best customers having found their way into the Gazette, they of course are obliged to have recourse to other means to obtain profit, and they accordingly, with their own paper, purchase treasury securities. It was the wise policy of our ancestors, when the Bank was first established, not to grant them too wide a field for speculation, lest in so doing they might clash with the interests of the State; but of late years his Majesty's government had departed from that wise line of conduct, and, as it would seem, had connected themselves-with, the company. In 1793, Mr. Pitt found it convenient to pass an act,
dllllll761Mr. Marryatt
 denied that the information was on the table respecting the purchase of even a single Exchequer Bill in the market. He contended, that if they were permitted to go on purchasing, that they might purchase all the Bills in the market, though he admitted it was putting an extreme case.Mr. Marryatt
ld762 replied to the observations of the hon. gent., who had charged the Directors of the Bank with forfeiting that confidence which the public reposed in them. He denied that they had lost that confidence, and he had never heard a charge of the sort, except from the mouth of the hon. gent. He therefore must be allowed to disbelieve it, without evidence to prove it was founded in truth. Under this conviction the topics in the speech of the hon. gent., were sea reel worthy an answer. He must, however, State his grounds for objecting to the-motion The hon. gent, had referred to the clause in the
ld762Mr. Manning
 thought that no ground of objection to the Accounts being produced
Sir J. Newport
771770769, in pursuance of his previous notice, rose, and addressed the Speaker to the following effect: Mr. Speaker; It is the misfortune of a person holding the official situation which I have now the honour to fill, not unfrequently to find himself under the necessity of submitting to the consideration of this House, various measures which it is as unpleasant for him to propose, as it is for the House to adopt. In a state of war such propositions are multiplied in proportion to the duration and extent of the contest, and to the burthens which it becomes necessary in consequence of its continuance to impose on the country. But the same state of war is not unfrequently also productive of propositions of a very different nature, of propositions the most pleasing that any man can be called upon to make to such an assembly. It is in the situation, Sir, to which I have last alluded, that I now conceive myself to stand. When an opportunity occurs to recommend to the approbation and gratitude of parliament the distinguished exertions of our naval or military forces, to point out brilliant instances of individual or collective merit, and to dwell with equal pride and exultation on the advantageous results which may fairly be expected from such gallant achievements, all are prepared to sympathize with the individual on whom the delightful task devolves, and to share with him in the general feeling of gratification.771770769The Chancellor of the Exchequer
774773 then said, that, in rising to second the motion of his right hon. friend, he felt some difficulty in deciding whether he should content himself with merely seconding the motion, leaving to the House the impression which the speech of his right hon. friend had made, and which indeed the contemplation of the question was calculated to produce, or preface the declaration of such intention by the expression of his sentiment upon the subject to which the motion referred. In the situation in which he was placed, he felt it equally difficult to decide whether to speak, or to be silent. To speak, because he could but imperfectly echo the sentiments which the House had just heard, and in which all must concur; to be silent, because strongly as he felt those sentiments in his own breast it was almost impossible to repress the declaration of them. There was one consideration independent of general impulse, which, however, induced him to trouble the House. This was the advantage alluded to in the latter part of his right hon. friend's speech, which this country must derive from a just contemplation of its situation, as well as of the means by which it had been brought into that situation, and of the benefits that were likely to result from it. One of the main consequences of that situation was, that, in deciding upon the question then under their consideration, they were relieved from all the difficulties which usually attended such votes. Engaged as the country was in a contest of such' magnitude and extent, it seldom happened that unanimity was to be expected—that the merits of the service to be remunerated appeared to all persons in the same light—or that it was felt unnecessary, more or less, to compare the means with the end—the exertion with the effect. Whenever upon any occasion a failure unfortunately took place, every particular was uniformly inquired into, every action examined, every measure weighed, every probability canvassed, and the absolute necessity of failure finally and clearly demonstrated. All this usually took place after the result was known, and when the test of experience removed every difficulty of judgment, and the event itself furnished, the means of an unerring decision upon the measures which may have been resorted to. Whenever, on the contrary, success was brought-under the consideration, of parliament, the debate was gent-rally ushered in by deprecating, all discus-ions of the events or measures which may
774773Mr. Canning
 observed, there appeared but one sentiment in the House, with respect to the merits of lord Wellington and his gallant army. He could not for a moment think that any praise of his would add to the fame of that noble lord Of Lord Wellington, he had never Had but: one opinion, and the consequence was,
General Ferguson
 observed, that in the vote proposed he most cordially concurred. He thought that lord Wellington deserved the thanks of that House, and of the nation. He was of opinion that the campaign was judiciously planned, and ably executed; and that the result had not tended more to exalt the glory, than to insure the safety of the country.Mr. Ponsonby
l778l said, that, undoubtedly, in the late debate, if the hon. gent. acceded to his wish, he would have abstained, had he risen, from all comment on the original policy of the campaign. A good opportunity had now, however,' arisen for the discussion of that subject, but still the hon. gent. continued silent. Professing, then, as he had done, his de-sire to discuss it, and not doing so when an opportunity offered, he could only infer, that the plan had met with his complete acquiescence, and that he had at length been convinced of its wisdom and its policy. He hoped that he might now conclude that the hon. gent. allowed the policy of the plan, and the propriety and importance of acting upon it. What was the practicable object of the hon. gentleman's warning to the country about the expence of the army? The hon. gent. declared the expence to be great; so did every person. Every one, also, allowest it to be necessary, and so did the hon. gent.; and here ended his" warning." The excess of this year's extraordinaries over those of last year was only 600,000l778lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the committal of this Bill.Mr. Foster
 also supported the Bill of last session, the beneficial effects of which, he said, had already been experienced, and considerable property was embarked in consequence there of. He moved, as an amendment, That a Committee be appointed above stairs to enquire into the effects of the former Bill.Mr. Barnard
 contended, that it would be
Mr. Foster
 spoke a few words in support of the original motionMr. Taylor
 said, that the object of his right hon. friend was not to repeal the Act generally, but merely such parts of it as related to the two roads in which major Taylor had a right vested by parliament, of which it would be highly unjust to deprive him. He could not help thinking that the right hon. bart. was not borne out in those charges which he so frequently reiterated of a disregard to the affairs of Ireland.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was disposed to give his full measure of praise to Mr. Anderson (one of the principal individuals interested in this Bill,) whom he valued both as a friend, a constituent, and a man who had been of the greatest service to Ireland; but) having said this, he could not feel himself justified in giving his support to the original motion, which he thought put private interest in competition with public It would be a waste of words to attempt to prove the advantage of the facility of intercourse promoted by the act of last session. He wished that the interests of individuals might be considered, but he could not agree in the repeal of what had been so serviceable, particularly as petitions had been presented from various parts of Ireland against the present measure.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, he must have been misunderstood; for any-individual who felt himself injured would have had the knowledge that the Bill was to be committed that day, and have counsel ready to attend.The Chancellor Of the Exchequer
 said, if he understood the argument of the right hon. gent. before the division, it was, that counsel should be heard on the part of individuals in the Committee; it was in his opinion the proper place to protect the individual. He would not oppose their going into the Committee, for they might adjourn, and give an opportunity to individuals to support their claims.Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, it was impossible, according to the standing orders of the House, that counsel could be heard on a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of granting remuneration to individuals.The Speaker
 followed on the same
Mr. H. Fitzgerald
point d'appui776775 said that he should have regretted the subject of this night's discussion having gone to a vote without his having had an opportunity of declaring how heartily he concurred both in the vote of thanks proposed from the other side of the House, and in every expression of admiration for the conduct of lord Wellington and the army under his command, which had characterised the speeches of the gentlemen who had preceded him. It was not, he trusted, alone from the individual attachment he bore to the character of the gallant and distinguished officer in question that he was anxious to give the motion his warm support, but from a general conviction that the vote of the House, as now proposed to pass, is the reward of all others the fittest perhaps to be paid to an officer, placed in such a situation as that noble lord, with a mind and feelings calculated like his to appreciate its value, and for services which like his had so splendidly warranted its application. It was from a conviction, that by withholding from officers who had deserved well of the State, so proud a testimony of praise and gratitude, they were depriving them of the purest incentive to ambition, the most honourable meed of merit, the applause of their country! It is, said the noble lord, with pleasure that I turn to the contemplation of lord Wellington's claims upon the gratitude of this House: and to discover the validity of those claims, we need, I think, only look to the state of the. Peninsula, at the opening of the Portuguese campaign of 1810, and compare it with its state at this moment, at what I trust we may date the conclusion of that campaign. Let us look to that campaign itself, lord Wellington's claims are to be traced through every movement of the allied army; let us look to the present moment, his eulogy is pronounced in its event. In the beginning of last year, we find lord Wellington holding the frontier line of Portugal, with his advance upon the Agueda, with a British army from many circumstances weakened in numbers and in health, and with a considerable part of his operations depending on the exertions of a Portuguese force, of which he then knew nothing, but their want of discipline, of which
point d'appui776775Lord G. Grenville
 observed, that a great part of the speech of the right hon. gent, who had just sat down, would apply to the question upon the army extraordinaries, which was to come on after this discussion, but did not apply to the question then before the House. With respect to the motion of the right hon. gent., no man in the army, or in England he should say, could rejoice more heartily than he did, in the success of his Majesty's arms. He concurred most cordially in this vote of thanks. He had on a former occasion opposed a vote of thanks for the battle of Talavera; but to this vote he should give his entire assent. He was not surprised at any thing that could be achieved by English courage, Irish spirit, and Scotch intrepidity. An army composed of such materials must be irresistible. He could have wished that this vote of thanks had been reserved till after the fall of Almeida; but that should not make him object to the vote. Still he entertained the opinions he formerly expressed, and considered the system as not judicious. If Buonaparté should not make some great efforts to retrieve his losses, his imperial throne would be shaken; his iron crown would, with its weight, gall his own head, and the king of. Italy be an outcast from his cradle. But the affairs of the war were not yet finished. He trusted that lord Wellington Would he successful in making the Peninsula rally round him, and Europe make an effort for her deliverance. No honours that the crown could bestow would be too great for him.General Tarleton
 opposed the motion, and supported the former Bill which he himself had brought in.Mr. Cooper
 said, that this was a case of public interest, of honest public interest; and there were several petitions on the table against the proposed Bill, which involved considerations much more extended than seemed to be supposed. What was the object of this Bill? To restore double tolls, and to limit the number of outside passengers to three. This would be a measure seriously affecting the interest of individuals, and checking the progress of improvement. In every view of the subject, he thought it should go to a Committee above stairs, where they could ascertain the state of the tolls before the last session, and know what loss the proprietors had sustained by the act, for which they could receive compensation.Mr. Grattan
 supported the original motion.Mr. Croker
dslldsl rose pursuant to notice, to propose a vote of 627,098dslldslMr. Long
ll777 rose to warn the House of the great expences attending the sytem pursued by ministers in the military department. The army, he admitted, was so essentially serviceable, and had lately added so much to the glory and security of the country, that a large expenditure might naturally and necessarily be called for. But yet it was of great importance that all, and especially those who supported the projects of ministers, should be fully aware of the immense expence to which the great and increasing establishment of the army led. It appeared that since the Contest in Spain began, the army had cost
ll777Mr. Fremantle
, in explanation, adverted to the statement of the first lord of the Admiralty, that there was a loss of 30 percent, on the exchange in the Mediterranean. The right hon. gent, himself had admitted a loss of 20 per cent in Portugal. He had distinctly stated, that his great object was to call the attention of the House to the immense expense resulting from the present system of military policy.Mr. Fremantle
ld said, he should only trouble the House with a few words upon this subject, which appeared to him to he in the smallest compass.—With regard to the act which passed last session he assured the House, and he took shame to himself while he made the confession; that he never heard of it during its passage through the House. Whether the hon. gent. who brought it in had given notice of it or not, he did not know, but certainly he had never heard of it till it passed. The facts of the case he understood to be, that an act had been passed, upon the suggestion of lord Kilwarden and Mr. Wolfe, for continuing and extending the act of the 33ldMr. W. Pole
780779 said that the petitions
780779Mr. Parnell
 contended, that the parties should be heard by Counsel—and that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had lulled them into the opinion that it would be allowed.Mr. Parnell
 argued in favour of the amendment; and said that the Bill had been passed in 1798, when Ireland had been declared in a state of rebellion, and when all subjects of minor interest were unattended to. If the House was disposed to sanction this measure, notwithstanding The various petitions against if, he could only say that he should witness in this, as in other instances, a total disregard of the public voice of Ireland.Sir John Newport
 moved," That the clause obliging stagecoaches which carried more than their number of passengers as by act of parliament, and which were, if they went in contradiction, obliged to pay five shillings toll extraordinaty for each horse, should be expunged." Which was supported by Mr. Bernard and Mr. Parnell, and opposed by Mr. Foster and Mr. Croker.Sir J. Newport
 was rather surprised to hear this application from the right hon. gent.; because it must be in the recollection of the House, that when his right hon. friend read his Resolutions, and a suggestion was made as to the necessity of some postponement of the discussion from Monday, an hon. member (Mr. H. Thornton) remarked, that having heard the Resolutions read, they did not appear to him to suggest any new idea Upon the subject, or to involve any matters which were not familiar to those who had considered the Report, and that therefore no postponement of the discussion was necessary. For his own part he fully felt how disagreeable it was to defer still farther this discussion, which had been so long hanging over their heads; but he was at the same time sensible how awkward it would be to hurry on the discussion when any gentleman desired a short delay in order to come better prepared to the consideration of the question. He was of opinion, however, that if the proposed delay, which he understood to extend to Monday next, should be assented to, it should be an an express understanding, that, if in point of fact any counter-Resolutions were to be proposed by the right hon. gent. or any other hon. member, they should be communicated to the House on Friday next, previously to the debate on Monday. With respect to the delay, he rather thought, that, though his right hon. friend was not present, with whom the power of consenting rested, he would have no objection to acquiesce in the arrangement proposed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that he had not charged upon the night hon. member having given any such pledge; neither did he wish the right hon. gent. to bring forward any counter-resolutions. He should be much better satisfied at his concurring in the Resolution" of his right hon. friend.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could take upon himself to consent to the delay on the part of his right hon. friend, whose authority he had to say, that he would have no objection to the delay required.Mr. C Adams
 so far as he was personally concerned, was perfectly prepared to go into the discussion at any time: but he must observe, that these were Resolutions founded upon an extensive mass of evidence, which it would be impossible for gentlemen to decide upon justly, without making themselves acquainted with that evidence particularly. Several of the right hon. gentleman's Resolutions were not consistent with the evidence, and only calculated to mislead the House. If gentlemen had not time, therefore, to consider the evidence, it would be extremely difficult for him to convince them that the Re solutions were not borne out by that evidence. There were some of the Resolutions which he considered unfounded, The 5th, for instance, assumed four or five things as facts, which he contended were not (acts, but which it would not be easy for him to shew not to be facts, unless gentlemen were to be fully in possession of the evidence.Mr. Horner,
783 disclaimed having given any
783Mr Tierney
782 wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he would have any objection to postponing the Committee on the Bullion Report from to-morrow to another day. The Resolutions proposed by the right hon. gent., whom he did not then see in his place, (Mr. Vansittart), created the necessity for some farther delay, in order to enable gentlemen to make themselves fully acquainted with their nature and bearing. From the consideration which he had been able to give the subject, and he had paid particular attention to it, he was satisfied, that, as the Resolutions were framed, they were not calculated to convey an assertion of facts according to the evidence. It was, therefore, material that gentlemen should have a better opportunity of making up their minds upon this important question; an opportunity the more necessary, as some gentleman might feel it his duty to submit to the House some counter-Resolutions, in opposition to those of the right hon. gentleman. For himself, he must say, that he should not pledge himself to bring forward any such Resolutions, though he
782Mr. Tierney
l moved, "That a sum not exceeding 400,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
784 was-persuaded, that having agreed to a similar vote on a former occasion, the Committee would not be disposed to withhold from Sicily the proposed assistance during the continuance of the war, and its attendant distresses. He could not forbear expressing his deep regret at the sentiments uttered by the hon. gent. with respect to Sicily. If any one thing could render it more difficult than another to render British arms serviceable in defence of the country, it was to set the government and the people of that country in opposition to each other. Such language, therefore, as that used by the hon. gent, was little calculated to promote the general cause The object of the subsidy to Sicily, and of British protection, namely, that of keeping Sicily independent of France, had hitherto been completely attained;
784The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 explained. On the best consideration which he could give to the subject, he thought it most important that the British parliament should not shut their eyes to the true character and situation of the Sicilian government and people, that they should not pretend to believe that the government was not profligate, or the people not oppressed; and that they should not pretend to believe, that to abstain from proclaiming these evils was the best way to correct them. He held it the bounden duty of a member of parliament when voting the public money for such purposes as the present, explicitly to state his sentiments. The right hon. gent. had been pleased to suppose, that he (Mr. W.) believed the recent events might lead to a speedy peace. He had said no such thing. At the same time he could not allow that to say the legitimate object of every war was peace, was a common-place
Mr. Whitbread
783 said, that he did not rise with any expectation of inducing the Committee to dissent from the motion of the right hon. gent.; or, indeed, with any wish to repeat the arguments which he had urged on a former occasion against this grant to his Sicilian, Majesty, at the
783Mr. Whitbread
785 was of opinion, that notorious as was the state of the government in Sicily, it was wisdom and policy to urge on that government such a reformation as might be carried into execution without tumult, and as might convince the Sicilians that the British were the friends equally of the Sicilian government and of the Sicilian people. He regretted, that during the occupation of Sicily by British troops, no representation of the nature which he recommended had been made to the Sicilian government, either by our commanders or by our envoys. He should be happy were such a representation made and acceded to, because he was persuaded that the reformation of the Sicilian government would render the defence of the island much more easy, and would enable the British troops to accomplish that to which under the present circumstances, double their number would scarcely be adequate. He was aware that some small inconvenience might result from the public statement of these circumstances in Parliament, but there were cases in which, it became necessary to balance inconveniences: and in his opinion, the inconvenience of re-
785Mr. W. Smith
 although he allowed that if we were in Sicily, merely as subordinate allies, we should have no right to interpose with the government, yet thought, that since we had assumed the defence of that island, as principals, we ought to endeavour, to produce the wished for reform. However unpopular the sentiment might be, he roust declare, that the moment of success was that in which we ought to treat with an enemy. It was, in his opinion, imperative on government to see whether the enemy would not surrender the great obstacle to negociation, by leaving Spain independent. He was not one of those who would wish to lay the country at the foot of France, and crave peace on any terms; but he would say to her, "Give up that object, the subjugation of Spain, and we are ready to treat withSir T. Turton,
 wished to know whether there was any likelihood that this would be soon completed, or whether it was intended that this vote should be continued annually. This project was take up in the first instance for the purpose of affording employment to the Highlanders who for want of employment were emigrating to other countries; but he was informed, that in point of fact, the greater number of the labourers now employed, were from Shropshire.Mr. Abercromby
 thought it desirable before the House proceeded further in the Westminster Hustings Bill, to ascertain the nature and extent of the responsibility attached to the office of High Bailiff of Westminster. He accordingly moved, that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the Office of High Bailiff of Westminster, and report upon the duties and burdens incident thereto.Mr. Luhington
789 supposed, that this proposed enquiry was intended to precede the enactment of a Bill upon the subject: but as he did not think that any enquiry could ultimately justify such a proceeding, he should vote against the appointment of the Committee. Any Bill such as had been proposed could only have the effect of raising the price of the office of High-bailiff of Westminster, and putting so much additional money into the pocket of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, without in any degree relieving the officer. The bailiff was indeed indemnified at present, as might be proved by the success of his action against him (Sir Francis) for the expence of the election, though he had been nominated without
789Sir F. Burdett
 expressed his satisfaction at the motion, which he thought calculated to shew how the case stood. He thought that elections ought to be free of expence; but if expence must be incurred, it might, be suggested, be provided for by a rate on the city of Westminster.Mr. Wynn
l787 believed that he could answer the question of the hon. and learned gentleman. Though he bad himself no concern with the original projection of this work, he had no difficulty in saying, that from all the attention he had paid to the subject, and all the information he had received
l787The Speaker
788 rose, and stated, that in consequence of the postponement of the debate on the Bullion Report, he had availed himself of the interval to examine the Propositions of his right hon. friend (Mr. Vansittart), particularly so far as they related to facts, wherein they seemed to him to beat Variance with the evidence before the House. He had paid this attention to them, in order, that if House should
788Mr. Horner
797 spoke in favour of the Bill. He detailed the many and various difficulties, amounting to positive obstructions, experienced every hour of the day in passing over London-bridge. The pressure of all sorts of vehicles incessantly passing and repassing, kept the bridge in such a state that it was always needing repair, and of course in many parts of it not passable. He had frequently, on his way to Sydenham, been delayed a longer-time (his carriage following in the line of carriages) in going the half mile leading to and over the bridge, than in riding the seven remaining miles.—An hon. baronet had said, that there were already three bridges over the river Thames.; Paris, a city not to be compared with this, in point of trade, extent, population, or opulence had yet not less than nine bridges over the Seine. The House were in possession
797Mr. Marryatt
llllll798slll rose, and observed, that having some time ago stated his reasons for funding 12 millions of Exchequer Bills, and of that sum not more than 7,800,000llllll798slllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
838837* See Vol. 17, App. p. cciv.*d836835exchanges834*** spoke as follows838837* See Vol. 17, App. p. cciv.*d836835exchanges834***Mr. Rose
880slsl is asked, "Q. Suppose an advance to be made upon goods that may be pledged with the Bank instead of bills, would that, in your opinion, create an excess of circulation?—A. I consider it to be highly proper that the securities discounted by the Bank, should be payable at short and fixed periods.880slslMr. Greffulhe
890ll889llllll888***dsds887llllll886* John Raithby, Esq. of Lincoln's Inn.dsl*dsl885we884l*l*ll*l883**lll*882881 Baring having been asked by the Committee, "Whether he conceives that the Bank of England will effectually guard against the possibility of an excess in the circulation of the country (as well their own as of country banks), if they regulate their issues by the demand for discounts of good bills, founded on real mercantile transactions, as the occasions of the public may appear to require?"—concludes a long answer by saying, "It may prove dangerous to impose any positive restraint on the Bank by law or otherwise; for cases may and wilt arise, when an excess will be proper, and that it would be culpable to withhold it. But if the House shall be disposed to entertain an opinion, and will pronounce it distinctly, I think the Bank may be left' with full power to act under their responsibility."890ll889llllll888***dsds887llllll886* John Raithby, Esq. of Lincoln's Inn.dsl*dsl885we884l*l*ll*l883**lll*882881Sir Francis
895894l893892891 is asked, "Has much gold been received from the Continent of Europe?" to which he answers, "I believe none; I judge so by no continental merchants being sellers to us." And when asked whether any quantity has come from the Brazils, his answer is.
895894l893892891Mr. Aaron Asher Goldsmid
830829828827826825824823822821820819818817lll816dsl815814813lllss812ss811sdsss810ldslsl809808sllldsl807l806ldsl805l804dsslslslsldll803802801800 rose and spoke to the following effect:830829828827826825824823822821820819818817lll816dsl815814813lllss812ss811sdsss810ldslsl809808sllldsl807l806ldsl805l804dsslslslsldll803802801800Mr. Horner
 observed, that the Bill, as had been proved before the Committee, was highly necessary, on the ground stated by the gentlemen who had preceded him; that in order to shew its necessity, evidence was called from among the servants of the corporation of the city of London, who stated, that so great has been the pressure of business, and so narrow the passes, that stoppages of carriages of all sorts have occurred for the space of three or four hours.Mr. Sumner
 moved the third reading of the Bills for building a bridge near the Three Cranes Wharf, at the bottom of Queen-street, Cheapside.Mr. Sumner
919918917916915914913912dd911910†" Qu'estàdire que ces demandes d'argent? Qu'il y a sur la place plus de billets que les affaires du moment n'en exigent. Et comment y pourvoir? En diminuant leur quantité par un retrait plus fort que l'emission nouvelle."* "Reserrer pescompté, aussitôt que l'on s'appercoit qu'il se presente a la Caisse plus de billets à réaliser en argent que de coutume."*909908907llllllllll906l905904903902901900899898897896 said, that however ably, as well as fully, the learned gent. who opened this discussion, had treated the subject, he conceived that there were some important points which required amplification; and he should prefer entering on these, to the examination of those numerous and smaller questions respecting the accuracy of the report of the Bullion Committee, on which the right hon. gent. who preceded him had principally dwelt. A time would come, when the respective merits of the several propositions intended to be submitted by different members would be brought into minute discussion, and an answer to the right hon. gent. might then, perhaps, be more conveniently given. He trusted the House would agree with him in the propriety of his confining himself, for the present, to great and broad principles; he should apply himself to the spirit of some of the first resolutions now proposed, and to the main point at this moment in issue. That main point was, not whether the Bank should open at any particular time, or any change be made as to the law in this respect, which would be a second consideration; but whether with a view to facilitate such opening if it should be prescribed, or with a view to secure the due maintenance of our standard during the long continuance of the restriction of cash payments, if the continuance should be deemed advisable, it was or was not expedient that the Bank should regulate the issues of its paper with a reference to the price of Bullion, and the state of the exchanges. The Bank and the Bullion Committee were at variance on this leading and essential point. The Committee affirmed, that the quantity of paper had an influence on the price of bullion, and the state of the exchanges; all the directors of the Bank who had been examined, affirmed that it had not. The right hon. gent. over the way (Mr. Rose)
919918917916915914913912dd911910†" Qu'estàdire que ces demandes d'argent? Qu'il y a sur la place plus de billets que les affaires du moment n'en exigent. Et comment y pourvoir? En diminuant leur quantité par un retrait plus fort que l'emission nouvelle."* "Reserrer pescompté, aussitôt que l'on s'appercoit qu'il se presente a la Caisse plus de billets à réaliser en argent que de coutume."*909908907llllllllll906l905904903902901900899898897896Mr. Henry Thornton
879* A member of this House (Mr. Marryatt) has published a pamphlet, finding great fault with the conduct of the Bank, and proposing the establishment of another Bank, neither of them to be compellable to pay in cash.*l26,000,000
26,000,00023,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation
23,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)
£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)46,278,000
46,278,00011,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were
11,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l
£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l
26,000,000
26,000,00023,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation
23,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)
£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)46,278,000
46,278,00011,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were
11,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l
£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l878llllsllllllllld87743,355,119
43,355,11917,909,024
17,909,02415,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas
15,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,1798
33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,179825,446,095
25,446,0955,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage
5,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage20,446,095
20,446,095950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 1733
950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 173319,495,850
19,495,8502,898,494From foreign gold
2,898,494From foreign gold£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 1777
£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 1777
43,355,119
43,355,11917,909,024
17,909,02415,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas
15,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,1798
33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,179825,446,095
25,446,0955,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage
5,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage20,446,095
20,446,095950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 1733
950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 173319,495,850
19,495,8502,898,494From foreign gold
2,898,494From foreign gold£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 1777
£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 17772,022,000toIn 1810.
2,022,000toIn 1810.526,000toIn 1809.
526,000toIn 1809.3,294,000toIn 1808
3,294,000toIn 18086,289,000toIn 1807.
6,289,000toIn 1807.4,515,000toIn 1806.
4,515,000toIn 1806.3,021,000toIn 1805.
3,021,000toIn 1805.2,020,000toIn 1804.
2,020,000toIn 1804.£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,
£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,
2,022,000toIn 1810.
2,022,000toIn 1810.526,000toIn 1809.
526,000toIn 1809.3,294,000toIn 1808
3,294,000toIn 18086,289,000toIn 1807.
6,289,000toIn 1807.4,515,000toIn 1806.
4,515,000toIn 1806.3,021,000toIn 1805.
3,021,000toIn 1805.2,020,000toIn 1804.
2,020,000toIn 1804.£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,
£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,l876llllllll875llllll87413,302,000In 1809,
13,302,000In 1809,£ 10,864,000In 1791, was
£ 10,864,000In 1791, was
13,302,000In 1809,
13,302,000In 1809,£ 10,864,000In 1791, was
£ 10,864,000In 1791, was87317,397,0001809.
17,397,0001809.16,619,0001808
16,619,000180816,004,0001807.
16,004,0001807.16,295,000Jan.1806.
16,295,000Jan.1806.15,674,080July
15,674,080July17,849,000Jan.1805.
17,849,000Jan.1805.16,974,000July
16,974,000July17,151,000Jan.1804.
17,151,000Jan.1804.14,290,000July
14,290,000July15,650,000Jan.1803.
15,650,000Jan.1803.17,094,000July1802.
17,094,000July1802.
17,397,0001809.
17,397,0001809.16,619,0001808
16,619,000180816,004,0001807.
16,004,0001807.16,295,000Jan.1806.
16,295,000Jan.1806.15,674,080July
15,674,080July17,849,000Jan.1805.
17,849,000Jan.1805.16,974,000July
16,974,000July17,151,000Jan.1804.
17,151,000Jan.1804.14,290,000July
14,290,000July15,650,000Jan.1803.
15,650,000Jan.1803.17,094,000July1802.
17,094,000July1802.l872lllllll12,713,0001793
12,713,000179311,496,0001792
11,496,0001792£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was
£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was
12,713,0001793
12,713,000179311,496,0001792
11,496,0001792£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was
£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was871l870869***8⅛3,165,000June
8⅛3,165,000June83,192,0001810, January
83,192,0001810, January9½3,101,000June
9½3,101,000June8¾3,141,0001809, January
8¾3,141,0001809, January102,894,000June
102,894,000June9¾2,732,0001803, January
9¾2,732,0001803, January9¾2,782,000June
9¾2,782,000June112,618,0001807, January
112,618,0001807, January112,581,000June
112,581,000June11½2,465,0001806, January
11½2,465,0001806, January112,813,000June
112,813,000June8½2,902,0001805, January
8½2,902,0001805, January11 June2,916,000June
11 June2,916,000June15½ January£.2,936,0001804, January
15½ January£.2,936,0001804, JanuaryExchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.
Exchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.
8⅛3,165,000June
8⅛3,165,000June83,192,0001810, January
83,192,0001810, January9½3,101,000June
9½3,101,000June8¾3,141,0001809, January
8¾3,141,0001809, January102,894,000June
102,894,000June9¾2,732,0001803, January
9¾2,732,0001803, January9¾2,782,000June
9¾2,782,000June112,618,0001807, January
112,618,0001807, January112,581,000June
112,581,000June11½2,465,0001806, January
11½2,465,0001806, January112,813,000June
112,813,000June8½2,902,0001805, January
8½2,902,0001805, January11 June2,916,000June
11 June2,916,000June15½ January£.2,936,0001804, January
15½ January£.2,936,0001804, JanuaryExchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.
Exchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.llllll868llllsl867About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports
About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports2,140,030
2,140,03014,934,000
14,934,00014,934,00017,074,000
14,934,00017,074,0005,074,0005,712,0001804
5,074,0005,712,00018044,770,0005,275,0001803.
4,770,0005,275,0001803.£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.
£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.Exports including foreign goods.Imports.
Exports including foreign goods.Imports.
About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports
About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports2,140,030
2,140,03014,934,000
14,934,00014,934,00017,074,000
14,934,00017,074,0005,074,0005,712,0001804
5,074,0005,712,00018044,770,0005,275,0001803.
4,770,0005,275,0001803.£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.
£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.Exports including foreign goods.Imports.
Exports including foreign goods.Imports.866865† Which disappeared in a few years, after costing the public two millions and a half.***sdsss864l863† With the work of Mr. Godfrey, who was certainly a man of considerable note in the city, I was well acquainted; but conceiving Dr. Drake's "History of the last Parliament," to be the libellous work under that title for which he was prosecuted on an address of the House of Lords, I had not taken the trouble to read it. I find, however, the Doctor wrote two treatises with the same title: the one recommended by the Committee contains a fulsome panegyric on the ministers of king William, who not rewarding him for it, be published the second, in which his abuse was so little measured as to occasion the Lords to address the queen to prosecute him; and from that time to his death, he was in the hands of the Attorney General for different publications. The selection of these two authors by the Committee is the more extraordinary, as there were twenty or thirty other pamphlets written about the same time on exchanges, coin; &c. some of them by men of great ability and experience.***862lds31dslldsl861lsll860lll who wrote in the middle of the last century in support of Mr. Locke's opinions, says, "But the exportation of bullion is a certain sign of the exchange being really in favour of that country to which it is sent; and the variations in the exchange point also the variations in the balance of trails; though in general the rate of the exchange, at a particular time, is scarce sufficient for determining on which side the balance then turns."879* A member of this House (Mr. Marryatt) has published a pamphlet, finding great fault with the conduct of the Bank, and proposing the establishment of another Bank, neither of them to be compellable to pay in cash.*l26,000,000
26,000,00023,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation
23,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)
£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)46,278,000
46,278,00011,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were
11,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l
£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l
26,000,000
26,000,00023,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation
23,000,000Bank of England notes in circulation£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)
£3,000,000Coin in circulation now (perhaps a high estimate)46,278,000
46,278,00011,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were
11,278,000.The Bank of England notes then in circulation were£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l
£ 35,000,000l40,000,000l878llllsllllllllld87743,355,119
43,355,11917,909,024
17,909,02415,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas
15,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,1798
33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,179825,446,095
25,446,0955,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage
5,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage20,446,095
20,446,095950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 1733
950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 173319,495,850
19,495,8502,898,494From foreign gold
2,898,494From foreign gold£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 1777
£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 1777
43,355,119
43,355,11917,909,024
17,909,02415,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas
15,922,207Deduct coinage from light guineas33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,1798
33,831,231Coined from 1st Jan. 1778 to Dec. 31,179825,446,095
25,446,0955,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage
5,000,000Coin remaining in circulation, at the lowest estimate, during the re-coinage20,446,095
20,446,095950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 1733
950,245In 1772 the Bank sent in foreign gold coined in 173319,495,850
19,495,8502,898,494From foreign gold
2,898,494From foreign gold£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 1777
£16,597,356Coined from guineas 1773 to 17772,022,000toIn 1810.
2,022,000toIn 1810.526,000toIn 1809.
526,000toIn 1809.3,294,000toIn 1808
3,294,000toIn 18086,289,000toIn 1807.
6,289,000toIn 1807.4,515,000toIn 1806.
4,515,000toIn 1806.3,021,000toIn 1805.
3,021,000toIn 1805.2,020,000toIn 1804.
2,020,000toIn 1804.£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,
£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,
2,022,000toIn 1810.
2,022,000toIn 1810.526,000toIn 1809.
526,000toIn 1809.3,294,000toIn 1808
3,294,000toIn 18086,289,000toIn 1807.
6,289,000toIn 1807.4,515,000toIn 1806.
4,515,000toIn 1806.3,021,000toIn 1805.
3,021,000toIn 1805.2,020,000toIn 1804.
2,020,000toIn 1804.£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,
£2,409,000the notes in the exchequer amounted at one time toIn 1803,l876llllllll875llllll87413,302,000In 1809,
13,302,000In 1809,£ 10,864,000In 1791, was
£ 10,864,000In 1791, was
13,302,000In 1809,
13,302,000In 1809,£ 10,864,000In 1791, was
£ 10,864,000In 1791, was87317,397,0001809.
17,397,0001809.16,619,0001808
16,619,000180816,004,0001807.
16,004,0001807.16,295,000Jan.1806.
16,295,000Jan.1806.15,674,080July
15,674,080July17,849,000Jan.1805.
17,849,000Jan.1805.16,974,000July
16,974,000July17,151,000Jan.1804.
17,151,000Jan.1804.14,290,000July
14,290,000July15,650,000Jan.1803.
15,650,000Jan.1803.17,094,000July1802.
17,094,000July1802.
17,397,0001809.
17,397,0001809.16,619,0001808
16,619,000180816,004,0001807.
16,004,0001807.16,295,000Jan.1806.
16,295,000Jan.1806.15,674,080July
15,674,080July17,849,000Jan.1805.
17,849,000Jan.1805.16,974,000July
16,974,000July17,151,000Jan.1804.
17,151,000Jan.1804.14,290,000July
14,290,000July15,650,000Jan.1803.
15,650,000Jan.1803.17,094,000July1802.
17,094,000July1802.l872lllllll12,713,0001793
12,713,000179311,496,0001792
11,496,0001792£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was
£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was
12,713,0001793
12,713,000179311,496,0001792
11,496,0001792£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was
£ 1,343,000In July 1791 the amount was871l870869***8⅛3,165,000June
8⅛3,165,000June83,192,0001810, January
83,192,0001810, January9½3,101,000June
9½3,101,000June8¾3,141,0001809, January
8¾3,141,0001809, January102,894,000June
102,894,000June9¾2,732,0001803, January
9¾2,732,0001803, January9¾2,782,000June
9¾2,782,000June112,618,0001807, January
112,618,0001807, January112,581,000June
112,581,000June11½2,465,0001806, January
11½2,465,0001806, January112,813,000June
112,813,000June8½2,902,0001805, January
8½2,902,0001805, January11 June2,916,000June
11 June2,916,000June15½ January£.2,936,0001804, January
15½ January£.2,936,0001804, JanuaryExchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.
Exchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.
8⅛3,165,000June
8⅛3,165,000June83,192,0001810, January
83,192,0001810, January9½3,101,000June
9½3,101,000June8¾3,141,0001809, January
8¾3,141,0001809, January102,894,000June
102,894,000June9¾2,732,0001803, January
9¾2,732,0001803, January9¾2,782,000June
9¾2,782,000June112,618,0001807, January
112,618,0001807, January112,581,000June
112,581,000June11½2,465,0001806, January
11½2,465,0001806, January112,813,000June
112,813,000June8½2,902,0001805, January
8½2,902,0001805, January11 June2,916,000June
11 June2,916,000June15½ January£.2,936,0001804, January
15½ January£.2,936,0001804, JanuaryExchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.
Exchange Dublin on London.Irish Bank Notes.llllll868llllsl867About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports
About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports2,140,030
2,140,03014,934,000
14,934,00014,934,00017,074,000
14,934,00017,074,0005,074,0005,712,0001804
5,074,0005,712,00018044,770,0005,275,0001803.
4,770,0005,275,0001803.£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.
£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.Exports including foreign goods.Imports.
Exports including foreign goods.Imports.
About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports
About ⅛of the whole imports,.713,000Average excess of imports2,140,030
2,140,03014,934,000
14,934,00014,934,00017,074,000
14,934,00017,074,0005,074,0005,712,0001804
5,074,0005,712,00018044,770,0005,275,0001803.
4,770,0005,275,0001803.£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.
£5,090,000£ 6,087,0001802.Exports including foreign goods.Imports.
Exports including foreign goods.Imports.866865† Which disappeared in a few years, after costing the public two millions and a half.***sdsss864l863† With the work of Mr. Godfrey, who was certainly a man of considerable note in the city, I was well acquainted; but conceiving Dr. Drake's "History of the last Parliament," to be the libellous work under that title for which he was prosecuted on an address of the House of Lords, I had not taken the trouble to read it. I find, however, the Doctor wrote two treatises with the same title: the one recommended by the Committee contains a fulsome panegyric on the ministers of king William, who not rewarding him for it, be published the second, in which his abuse was so little measured as to occasion the Lords to address the queen to prosecute him; and from that time to his death, he was in the hands of the Attorney General for different publications. The selection of these two authors by the Committee is the more extraordinary, as there were twenty or thirty other pamphlets written about the same time on exchanges, coin; &c. some of them by men of great ability and experience.***862lds31dslldsl861lsll860lllMr. Harris
 also opposed it.Sir C. Price
 supported the Bill. He did not think that there was any thing, in the objections of the worthy aldermen who had preceded him, certainly nothing to outweigh the one fact he could state to, the House, which was, that Mr. Rennie, a man of the first experience and authority in his profession, after a minute examination of London Bridge, had declared it formally as his opinion that London Bridge, after one hard frost, might not last a year. As to the corporation of London not being treated with respect by the projectors of this Bill, if this was the case, he was sorry that it was so; but still he contended, that such conduct on the part of the projectors was no reason why the public should be deprived of the many and great advantages resulting from this Bill.Sir T. Turton
 opposed the Bill, on the; ground that there are already three bridges on the river near the metropolis; that the consequence of another bridge; so near that of London, would affect the navigation of the river by causing too great a current; and that in point of necessity it was not called for by the public.Sir W. Curtis
967966965964963962961960959958957l956955954953952951950949948947l946945944943942941940939938937936935l934933932931***930929ss928***927sl926ldsll3.311200 sixpences, weighing
3.311200 sixpences, weighingor in9;1321100 shillings, weighing
or in9;1321100 shillings, weighingor in2;85140 half-crowns, weighing
or in2;85140 half-crowns, weighingor in7;146120 crowns, weighing
or in7;146120 crowns, weighingor in2;771
or in2;771gr.dwt.oz.lb.
gr.dwt.oz.lb.
3.311200 sixpences, weighing
3.311200 sixpences, weighingor in9;1321100 shillings, weighing
or in9;1321100 shillings, weighingor in2;85140 half-crowns, weighing
or in2;85140 half-crowns, weighingor in7;146120 crowns, weighing
or in7;146120 crowns, weighingor in2;771
or in2;771gr.dwt.oz.lb.
gr.dwt.oz.lb.ll925924923922921920 rose and said:967966965964963962961960959958957l956955954953952951950949948947l946945944943942941940939938937936935l934933932931***930929ss928***927sl926ldsll3.311200 sixpences, weighing
3.311200 sixpences, weighingor in9;1321100 shillings, weighing
or in9;1321100 shillings, weighingor in2;85140 half-crowns, weighing
or in2;85140 half-crowns, weighingor in7;146120 crowns, weighing
or in7;146120 crowns, weighingor in2;771
or in2;771gr.dwt.oz.lb.
gr.dwt.oz.lb.
3.311200 sixpences, weighing
3.311200 sixpences, weighingor in9;1321100 shillings, weighing
or in9;1321100 shillings, weighingor in2;85140 half-crowns, weighing
or in2;85140 half-crowns, weighingor in7;146120 crowns, weighing
or in7;146120 crowns, weighingor in2;771
or in2;771gr.dwt.oz.lb.
gr.dwt.oz.lb.ll925924923922921920Mr. Vansittart
lsl986dsllslsl, in explanation, observed, that there was as little similarity between the doctrines which the Bank of Scotland inculcated, and those promulged by Mr. Law, of France, as could possibly be; because where one note. had been issued in Scotland, there were one thousand in France. With respect to the market price of gold, as stated by Mr. Goldsmid to be at 4lsl986dsllslslMr. Rose
101110101009100810071006100510041003100210011000999998997996995994993992991990ll989ll988987 rose and said:101110101009100810071006100510041003100210011000999998997996995994993992991990ll989ll988987Lord Castlereagh
 replied, that the propositions were indefinite in their nature, and therefore unfair towards the Bank of England.Lord Castlereagh
1012dss
rose principally for the purpose of answering a challenge from his right hon. friend, "who had commenced the discussion that night. His hon. friend had said, that he was' not aware of any case in which the tender of bank-notes had been refused, and the payment of coin enforced by law.—Such a case had however occurred in 1801, on one of the circuits in the court of common pleas; and it was the unanimous opinion of all the judges, that a creditor was fully entitled to have the payment of his debts made in the legal coin of the realm; and that it was entirely in his option to reject notes altogether. This was a consideration materially affecting the liberty of the subject. If an individual, after ineffectually tendering bank-notes, was prosecuted for debt and arrested in consequence, what step must he take? He must either buy gold bullion, at the present extravagant price and send it to the Mint to be coined, or he must pay the debt in silver bullion, for which he must give 61012dssMr. Morris
 denied that be had retroceded, or that the Committee had altered their opinion; and maintained, that instead of bringing forward abstract propositions, he had laid before the (louse practical measures for them to adopt,Mr. Horner
sl denied, that the statement of the price of gold in 1809 was correct, for if the right hon. gentleman adverted to the opinions of all the dealers in gold at that period, he would see that they fixed it at 4slMr. Horner
985984983982l981980979dsl978977ss976lddsdssssdssds975974973972l971970969968 declared, that he could not agree with the principles and opinions maintained with such confidence and urged with such ability in the luminous and comprehensive speech of the right hon. gent. who had just sat down; neither was it possible for him to give a silent vote upon this important subject, even though he had not been so pointedly and personally called upon, as he had been by the right hon. gent. to state his opinion upon it. The manner, in which hat call had been made, appeared to him extremely irregular, and wholly inconsistent with the uniform practice of that House and the established rules and forms of discussion in the course of its proceedings. The right hon. gent. had thought proper, in the middle of his speech, to require of him a brief and summary opinion upon this most grave and intricate subject, in order that he might have in the concluding part of his speech an opportunity to comment upon it at length. No gentleman, he must contend, had a right to expect from him an answer in such a way, even if he had not felt it necessary for him to deliver his opinion upon the subject somewhat more at length. He was aware, in offering himself to the House, that it would be necessary for him to revert to opinions which had been already much discussed, and he could not revert to them without recurring at the same lime to details which he feared would appear dry and uninteresting to the Committee. It was, however, necessary for him to recur to those opinions and arguments, in answer to the speech which had been just delivered, and which, as he thought, struck at the foundation of all financial and commercial principles established in the world. The right hon. gent. had said, that the Bullion Committee had made one of the boldest experiments that was ever tried on public credit,
985984983982l981980979dsl978977ss976lddsdssssdssds975974973972l971970969968Mr. Huskisson
10761075dsdsdsdsds1074llllll1073***1072dsdsl1071ld1070106910681067106610651064 observed, that he should consider himself as guilty of an inexcusable neglect of duty, if, holding the situation which he had the honour to hold, he refrained from expressing his sentiments at some period of this important discussion; and he did not conceive that he could seize a more advantageous opportunity than that of following the two hon. gentlemen who had last spoken. The Committee were tow in possession of the opinions of two highly respectable individuals, both of extensive knowledge and great practical experience. From the one, they had heard a decided opinion that there was no remedy for, the existing evil, but the adoption of the measure recommended in the Report of the Bullion Committee. From the other, they had heard an opinion as decided, that if the measure recommended in the Report of the
10761075dsdsdsdsds1074llllll1073***1072dsdsl1071ld1070106910681067106610651064The Chancellor of the Exchequer
112811271126112511241123datadata112211211120111911181117111611151114111311121111Ce n'est pas l' assignat qui perd, c'est l'argent qui gagne1110l11091108110711061105110411031102110111001099"And punist'd him who put it in his way.""He sent the thief, who stole the gold, away,109810971096109510941093sdsds1092quacnus109110901089108810871086108510841083108210811080107910781077 rose and said:112811271126112511241123datadata112211211120111911181117111611151114111311121111Ce n'est pas l' assignat qui perd, c'est l'argent qui gagne1110l11091108110711061105110411031102110111001099"And punist'd him who put it in his way.""He sent the thief, who stole the gold, away,109810971096109510941093sdsds1092quacnus109110901089108810871086108510841083108210811080107910781077Mr. Canning
1061ss1060bd1059 thought it perfectly superfluous in him, after the able discussions which the principle and details of the Report had undergone, to enter at length into that part of the subject which had been so fully gone into. He begged, however, to throw out his opinion, and view of a question, which he conceived of the most extreme importance. His opinions as to the exchange, were certainly conformable to those stated in the Report, and detailed in the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who had brought forward the question. He certainly agreed that there was a depreciation of our paper currency, for no other term except that of depreciation, could he find capable of conveying his meaning; his wish, by the use of the term depreciation, being to convey that it no longer bore that value which attached to the precious metals it purported to represent. He did not agree, however, that this depreciation was to be attributed solely to the excess of the circulation of paper, but to the state of trade, and the balance of exchange being against us. This depreciation, however, could not exist, if it were not for the state in which our paper had been placed. His mind was so firmly made up on this subject, that he did not feel it necessary to trouble himself in reading the numerous publications of those who had argued otherwise. If any person were to tell him that gold bore one price in London and another in Westminster, he should not believe him, convinced as be must be that he laboured under misinformation or misapprehension of the subject. That there must be an excess of paper he did not deny, and he also confessed that this excess of paper had raised the price of every commodity, and of gold with the others. The reason was obvious. Any country having a circulation of precious metals, it naturally corrected itself, but no such limit applied to paper. The grand origin of the rise of gold, however, was the state of trade, and balance of exchange being against us. As this point was disputed, and as it was doubted whether it was the excess of paper or the balance of trade which had turned the exchange against us, he should beg to read the opinion of the editor of Smith's Wealth of Nations on this subject, who says, "Hitherto notes answer our purpose, and so will they as long as there is a balance of trade in our favour; but the moment
1061ss1060bd1059Mr. A. Baring
1018 presented a Petition of several persons residing in the town of Paisley and Suburbs thereof; setting forth, setting forth,1018Lord Archibald Hamilton
10201019 presented a Petition of several heritors, manufacturers, merchants, mechanics, and labourers of all denominations, residing in Lanark, Ayr, and Renfrew shires, and the manufacturing places adjacent, which was read; setting forth,10201019Mr. Houstoun
 did, not see how any relief could be afforded, but though a friend to reform, he was convinced that their distresses had been as fully attended to as they could under any plan of representation.Mr. Curwen
10631062 felt it incumbent on him, as a member of the Bullion Committee, to rescue himself and the Committee from the general accusation of a retrocession from the opinions contained in the Report. In no single instance did such a retrocession exist. A much more serious charge had also been preferred against them, namely, that of having so disregarded all moral considerations, as to treat with lightness the perjury which, in the fulfilment of their duty, they were compelled to state existed in the transactions connected with the exportation of gold bullion from the kingdom. It was rather extraordinary, that a charge like this, wholly unfounded in its nature, should have proceeded from the Vice-President of that very board (the Board of Trade), under which licences were granted, which could be of no avail to those by whom they were obtained, except, through the aid of simulative papers and perjury. It had been said, that no practical man went to the extent of the opinions expressed in the Bullion Report. He presented himself to the Committee solely in the light of a practical man. Although he was persuaded that the scientific consideration of the question was capable of actual demonstration; yet he would abstain front all theoretical comments, and confine himself to a statement of several facts which it might be important for the House to consider. By some it was contended, that the present system, if not absolutely justifiable, ought to be
10631062Mr. Sharp
10581057s1056lll10551054lll began by vindicating the late governor of the Bank from the insinuations thrown out against him by the hon. and learned gentleman who opened the debate. He said, that with respect to any observations which he might offer in the course of his speech, he wished to be clearly understood as merely stating his own individual opinion, and not as one authorised or commissioned by the Bank-to speak their sentiments. A charge had been made against the Bank, that they had been guilty of a wanton issue of bank notes in the course of the last summer, to the amount of three millions; it was, however, not a little remarkable that this very issue which had been so censured, had been recommended by the Report of the Bullion Committee. In the two first weeks of July, 1809, the issue of bank post bills amounted to 7,39010581057s1056lll10551054lllMr. Manning
1051parpar1050parpar1049l10481047l1046ll104510441043l1042llparpar1041vice versa1040***1039prima facieparpar1038lll1037sl1036lll1035***1034***1033***1032***103110301029***l1028The prices from 1764 to 1770 both inclusive are taken from Smith's Corn Tracts, p. 128. The prices from 1770, from the App. Bul. Rep.2¼143Average
2¼143Average81814)51
81814)514½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l
4½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l01752
0175201931808
0193180831331807
3133180701931806
0193180610741805
107418051031804
103180461621803
616218035731802
573180231851801
3185180171351800
713518006731799
673179931021798
3102179811321797
1132179711731796
1173179621431795
21431795105£2Average
105£2Average10929)66
10929)6681121794
81121794
2¼143Average
2¼143Average81814)51
81814)514½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l
4½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l01752
0175201931808
0193180831331807
3133180701931806
0193180610741805
107418051031804
103180461621803
616218035731802
573180231851801
3185180171351800
713518006731799
673179931021798
3102179811321797
1132179711731796
1173179621431795
21431795105£2Average
105£2Average10929)66
10929)6681121794
81121794sldsl102711821793
1182179311221792
112217920721791
072179121321790
2132179021121789
211217890521788
05217882121787
2121787101811786
101811786101121785
10112178510821784
1082178481221783
8122178310721782
107217828421781
842178181511780
8151178081311779
813117790221778
02217786521777
652177721811776
218117764321775
432177581221774
8122177401121773
0112177381021772
810217722721771
272177181811770
8181177011611769
1161176910721768
10721768111121767
11112176731811766
318117668221765
8221765ddss££
ddss££
11821793
1182179311221792
112217920721791
072179121321790
2132179021121789
211217890521788
05217882121787
2121787101811786
101811786101121785
10112178510821784
1082178481221783
8122178310721782
107217828421781
842178181511780
8151178081311779
813117790221778
02217786521777
652177721811776
218117764321775
432177581221774
8122177401121773
0112177381021772
810217722721771
272177181811770
8181177011611769
1161176910721768
10721768111121767
11112176731811766
318117668221765
8221765ddss££
ddss££***dsldsldsl1026dsldslssdsldsldl1025sl1024102310221021 rose and spoke nearly as follows:1051parpar1050parpar1049l10481047l1046ll104510441043l1042llparpar1041vice versa1040***1039prima facieparpar1038lll1037sl1036lll1035***1034***1033***1032***103110301029***l1028The prices from 1764 to 1770 both inclusive are taken from Smith's Corn Tracts, p. 128. The prices from 1770, from the App. Bul. Rep.2¼143Average
2¼143Average81814)51
81814)514½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l
4½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l01752
0175201931808
0193180831331807
3133180701931806
0193180610741805
107418051031804
103180461621803
616218035731802
573180231851801
3185180171351800
713518006731799
673179931021798
3102179811321797
1132179711731796
1173179621431795
21431795105£2Average
105£2Average10929)66
10929)6681121794
81121794
2¼143Average
2¼143Average81814)51
81814)514½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l
4½180lDeducting 2½ per cent. on the prices of the last 9 years, in consequence of gold being at 4l01752
0175201931808
0193180831331807
3133180701931806
0193180610741805
107418051031804
103180461621803
616218035731802
573180231851801
3185180171351800
713518006731799
673179931021798
3102179811321797
1132179711731796
1173179621431795
21431795105£2Average
105£2Average10929)66
10929)6681121794
81121794sldsl102711821793
1182179311221792
112217920721791
072179121321790
2132179021121789
211217890521788
05217882121787
2121787101811786
101811786101121785
10112178510821784
1082178481221783
8122178310721782
107217828421781
842178181511780
8151178081311779
813117790221778
02217786521777
652177721811776
218117764321775
432177581221774
8122177401121773
0112177381021772
810217722721771
272177181811770
8181177011611769
1161176910721768
10721768111121767
11112176731811766
318117668221765
8221765ddss££
ddss££
11821793
1182179311221792
112217920721791
072179121321790
2132179021121789
211217890521788
05217882121787
2121787101811786
101811786101121785
10112178510821784
1082178481221783
8122178310721782
107217828421781
842178181511780
8151178081311779
813117790221778
02217786521777
652177721811776
218117764321775
432177581221774
8122177401121773
0112177381021772
810217722721771
272177181811770
8181177011611769
1161176910721768
10721768111121767
11112176731811766
318117668221765
8221765ddss££
ddss££***dsldsldsl1026dsldslssdsldsldl1025sl1024102310221021Mr. Parnell
10531052 said, that after the able speeches which had been already delivered on the subject, and the copious details into which gentlemen had entered, he should confine himself to a more general statement of the points upon which the question appeared to him to rest, He complimented the motives and the talents of the Committee whose Report was under consideration, and did not agree with those who thought the publication of it calculated to do evil. On the contrary, he thought it would tend to set the question at rest by calling forth the united wisdom of the House upon a matter of such importance. He agreed with his honourable colleague (Mr. H. Thornton), that the question lay in a much narrower compass than was generally believed. The first point for consideration was, whether there was an over issue of Bank-paper; the second, whether that "ftp-issue had an effect upon the rate of
10531052Sir Thomas Turton
1142 did not think the explanation that had been given so satisfactory as the House had a right to expect, after what had taken place six weeks ago, when the subject was formerly under their notice. Even supposing that a second theatre would be rebuilt, there was no ground for saying that a third might not be necessary. To those who were of this opinion the ex-
1142Mr. Browne
 seconded the amendment and was of opinion that time ought to be given for the rebuilding of the theatre. He appealed to the feelings of the House, and called on them to consider the immortal works of Mr. Sheridan, and the stoical philosophy with which in that House he had witnessed the destruction of his property. Surely some indulgence was due to such merit. After ail, he could not see of what use a third theatre would be, when Mr. Kemble, an accomplished actor and scholar, was under the necessity of introducing quadrupeds to fill the only one which the town now enjoyed. But this was the age of "osculation. They had hon. gentlemen speculating in canals, who were not possessed of a foot of land, and cared very little for the water; and they had hon. gentlemen speculating in theatres, who never read the poets, and never entered a play-house.General Tarkton
1144 disavowed being a speculator of any kind, and noticed the extreme inconvenience to which the public were put by having only one theatre. If a gentleman applied for a box for himself and family, he was informed he could not get one for fourteen days; and thus taking it on chance for that time, if they wanted to laugh at a comedy, they were perhaps seated to cry at a tragedy: and if they desired a tragedy, they might be treated with a comedy or a melodrama. It thus happened that the managers of theatres were not competitors for public favour, but the public were competitors for the favour of the single manager who now monopolized the task of providing amusement for this great city. He did not see it shewn even that a third theatre
1144Mr. Marryatt
1145 said, that the circumstance of many able performers being out of employment, was one likely to be applicable to all times and situations. In France, where theatres were so numerous, and where taste was supposed to exist to such adegree, this complaint was always made, and always made with reason. As to the introduction of pageantry upon the stage, that also was a general practice to which managers must resort. It was a well known fact that the Misanthrope of Moliere was held up for many nights by the aid of a farce or some shewy exhibition, which kept the audience in good humour. The public taste was not to be considered degraded merely because it could admire talents of a different description, or performances of a distinct species. There was always a security in the good sense of the public for their coming back again to the legitimate drama. As to the question of expence, although) the food and pay of the quadruped performers were less, the whole expence of the pageant was considerably greater. But when the drama was mentioned, and its excellence preferred, they should recollect how much the drama was indebted to him whose interest was con-
1145Mr. Morris
 answered in the negative. The Royalty theatre was not within the liberties of London, but in the Tower Hamlets.Alderman Shaw
 did not think that sufficient grounds had been stated for the postponement.Mr. Johnstone
 declared that the city of London had no intention of countenancing the erection of this theatre within their liberties.Alderman Shaw
1150 moved for, and obtained leave to bring in a Bill to empower the lords of the Treasury to exonerate those distillers of spirits from sugar from the excess of the duties to which they were liable in consequence of the expiration of the act of the 48th of the King above the duties improved by the said act. This, he remarked, would enable them to go on with their distillation upon a fair and impartial footing.—This Bill was afterwards brought in, read a first time, and ordered to be read a 2d time to morrow.—The right hon gent. then moved, That the Resolutions entered into by the House, on the 12th of. March, should be read; which being done, he said it was not his intention to take the House by surprise, by making any proposition on this subject now. He wished merely to give notice, that he should to morrow move for leave to bring in a Bill to lay a duty on distillation from grain, in the same manner as if the Bill had passed. He was desirous of doing this, that he
1150The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1160d.sd1159115811571156 observed, that after the length to which the discussion had
1160d.sd1159115811571156Sir Francis Burdelt
 explained. He said the act of 1797 did away two millions of oaths, and he had formerly not charged the Committee with encouraging fraud and perjury, but said that their remedy involved fraud and perjury.Mr. Rose
 supported the Resolutions, as originally proposed.Mr. Marryatt
 observed that the Petition was not subscribed by Mr. Luson, and asked if the hon. bart. was prepared to say that the Petition was of his hand writing, otherwise it could not be received.The Speaker
116911681167 then rose to reply, and began by remarking the various attacks which had been made on the Report of the Bullion Committee, both for having reported contrary to evidence, and for not having paid a sufficient deference to the opinions of practical men. He should have considered the Committee, however, as having abandoned its duty, had it acted on any other evidence than such as it deemed conclusive, or had it neglected to form opinions for itself. He did not think the Committee had been very courteously treated by the right hon. gent. (Mr. Rose), and he felt it necessary to reply to some of his observations on several parts of the Report. Mr. Horner then proceeded to vindicate the Committee for having quoted the opinions of Mr. Godfrey and Mr. Drake, the characters and principles of both of whom had been, he contended, wholly mistaken by that right hon. gent. (Mr. Rose).116911681167Mr. Horner
 defended the Board of Admiralty.Mr. Croker
 asked, if the city of London had not a theatre already?Mr. Dent
 supported in a few words the Resolutions of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Hornet). He professed himself to be of the same opinion as he was last year, namely, that the currency of the country had been, and still continued to be, in a state of gradual depreciation. He believed he had heard and read almost every thing that could be said upon the subject, and had heard and read with a mind open to conviction: and the result of his candid attention was, that, looking at the question as a plain practical man of business, he felt satisfied that the Resolutions proposed by his hon. and learned friend, were those which in his mind most consulted the best interests of the country, and as such they should have his cordial support.Mr. Grenfell
1143 said that the Committee (of which he had the honour to be chairman) had two points to consider; the first was the amount and nature of the claims upon the theatre; the second, the probability of its being rebuilt. With respect to the first, he assured the House it had been so intricate and extensive as to demand a very laborious attention for the six weeks allowed them; yet he had the pleasure to say, that all the claimants had acted in a most liberal manner, and indeed there had been a kind of competition among them, who would sacrifice most towards the re-establishment of the property and the amusements of the public. Nor had his right hon. friend (Mr. Sheridan) been behind them in liberality and an anxious expression to devote his private to the general interests. As in his whole political and private life, so he had on this occasion evinced the utmost disinterestedness, and in giving up his own
1143Mr. Peter Moore
 as he had been a member of the Bullion Committee, was desirous of briefly troubling the present Committee, lest he should be supposed to have concurred in the recommendation of measures, which, in his opinion, would, if adopted, prove highly injurious to the country. In the whole course of his experience, he had never known a report which differed so much from the evidence of those who were examined by the Committee from which it proceeded. He distinctly denied that, considered with respect to domestic purposes, paper had experienced any depreciation, although he admitted that, with respect to our foreign relations, it had done so. He denied also, that the unfavourable state of the exchanges was attributable to the over-issue of bank notes, and referred to a paper in the Report in order to shew, that at former periods the exchanges had net been operated upon by that cause. The fact was, that the balance of payments, which was considerably against Great Britain, was the real cause of the unfavourable state of the exchange. We could not, as in ordinary times, force our exports, and set the exchange right in that way. As to the remedy of the evil, he thought it would fee most unwise to declare that the restriction should cease at any given period; because, when that period came, it might be found impolitic or impracticable to terminate it. The despondency of those who thought differently from him on the subject, reminded him of an expression used by the late Mr. Fox in 1797, when the Restriction Bill passed. Mr. Fox then said, "that he must be a very sanguine mart indeed who did not believe that public credit would be ruined if the Bill continued in force six or eight months." A similar result would, he was persuaded, attend the predictions of the hon. gentlemen who anticipated such evil consequences from the present system.Mr. Long,
; explained; and after a few words from gen. Phipps and Mr. Hellish, the House divided, when there appeared—For the second reading 23 ;Mr. Sheridan
quasi11471146 said, he would trouble the House but for a short time on this occasion, though he could not help feeling grateful for the personal civility and attention which he had experienced from both sides of the House. It was pleasing to him, though a party man, to find that his conduct was such as to procure for him this personal consideration. There were, however, one or two words which fell from his hon. friend on the floor (Mr. Whitbread), and his hon. friend behind him (Mr. Moore), which, sensible as he was to the compliments they had paid him, he felt hurt at being employed on this question. One of his hon. friends had asked for the "indulgence" of the House, and the other for the "favour" of postponement. Now, though grateful for the partiality they had shewn towards him, yet he would take the pride to say, that he wished nothing from the. House but its impartial justice. An hon. gent. had complained of the difficulty of procuring a box at the Theatre, and of the perversion of the public taste by the introduction of quadrupeds. But that was a mistaken view of the subject, for it was the taste of the town that perverted the Theatre. Mr. Kemble would much rather, he was sure, act on his own two legs, than call in the aid of cavalry; but the fact was, that the taste of the town was more gratified by them, that taste being perverted by the depravity of manners, and the alteration in the mode of living which prevented people of fashion from attending and taking the lead in the theatres as formerly. It was erroneous in gentlemen to say there was only one theatre, when in fact there were two, and one of them of that very description which gentlemen required, where they could hear every thing and see the varied expressions of the actor's countenance, and where there was no room for cavalry to plance about; and yet that theatre was almost deserted, although there never was a better company collected together under a
quasi11471146Mr. Sheridan
 resumed: he hoped this would satisfy the House for the present. If ever the question came to be discussed again, it would be on the ground of compensation to the patentees, and not to wrest their property from them with the unfeeling hand of iron injustice. Even all the wild patents granted by Charles 2, had been taken away only on compensation being made, and they would never deal more hardly by a patent for which a valuable consideration was given.—He had troubled the House at this length, as he was most anxious for the interests of the proprietors and renters of the theatre, who had lost so much, and every feeling of honour and sensibility prompted him to advocate their cause. For the truth with which he had done this, and the earnest exertions making to re-establish the property, he had only to refer to his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread), whose character stamped the transaction, as he would never lend himself to any untrue or delusory statement.Mr. Sheridan
1149 said, the Board of Admiralty had examined into the case of Mr. Luson, with as much attention as if it had originated with them, and not with a former Board. He would be the first to move for an inquiry if a hearing had been
1149Mr. Robert Ward
 disclaimed the idea that the Bank issued paper to an unlimited amount: every one of the 24 gentlemen at its head had a vote whether each sum was or was not too high. The discounting of bills was not the only means of issuing their paper, much being issued on government securities. The Bank of England at their beginning vested their capital in government securities. Why should not country bankers vest a part of their capital in the same way? After adverting to the Resolutions of Mr. Horner, he expressed his conviction that there would be no limit to the distress and embarrassment that must follow the restoration of cash payments, under circumstances like the present, the necessary effect of which must be to compel the Bank to draw in their issues. As to what had been said of those states in which there was no paper currency, it should be recollected that this was, because they had no credit to support.Mr. Samuel Thornton
116611651164 declared, that after so many speeches of consummate ability had been delivered in proof and demonstration of the depreciated state of our currency, he should have felt that some apology was' due from him to the House for rising on this occasion, and at so late an hour; but the hon. director who had just spoken, had opened so new and so tremendous a scene, as to call in the most imperious manner for some animadversion. After hearing him declare that the Bank must be ruined, that it could not go on if compelled to return to cash payments, and after comparing this declaration with the opinion of another Bank director, who last night argued that our currency was the destructive effect of our destructive system of finance, and after seeing that both differed in their views with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it became the House of Commons, indeed to pause and deliberate well on a question so big with the fate of the country. It was his decided opinion that the House ought to stop nothing short of fixing a period for the resumption of cash payments. The Bank Company, who had been convicted of error, but not
116611651164Mr. Whitbread
1141 said, he was not surprised at the hon. gent. pressing this motion; but trusted, when he heard the explanation which it was in his power to offer, that he
1141Mr. Whitbread
 in explanation, said, it was his intention to assert, that on or before the 1st of October next it would be ascertained whether Drury-lane Theatre could be rebuilt or not; and if it could be rebuilt, there would be at that period considerable progress made towards its reconstruction. Of this there was a great probability, as the most material obstacles, with regard to the pecuniary concerns of the theatre, had been removed.Mr. Whitbread,
11551154ds.l.1153 began by stating, that he should assume this one principle
11551154ds.l.1153Mr. Dawes Giddy
 moved the order of the day for the second reading of the London Theatre Bill.Mr. Mellish
1152 thought the present, that sort of question which could be best treated by discussing it, partly upon the ground of authority, and partly upon the ground of examples: existing authorities, he admitted, could not be very conclusive, when it was considered how men the best qualified to decide the question clashed in their respective ultimate determinations upon it: an opposite rule would, however, apply with respect to the selection of examples, for while, perhaps, they could not go too far back for authority, those examples were the best and had the most practical application which were taken from the circumstances and events connected with the different banks upon the continent. Applying then this principle to the subject before them, the hon. gent. proceeded to shew by a variety of references to the practice and principles regulating the Swedish Bank, the Banks at Vienna, Paris, and Hamburgh, that a currency of paper of the same denomination
1152Mr. William Taylor
11631162bonâ fide1161 said there was, in his opinion, but one way of getting quit of the increasing evil at present felt by the country. The consequence of proceeding in our present course must inevitably be ruinous to the country; and the first opportunity should be taken of reverting, if possible, to a better state of things. It appeared to him, that the members of the Committee in general, and the learned gentleman who opened the discussion, had been placed in a very hard situation. They were bound to declare their opinion as to the true line of policy which they conceived proper to be adopted by the House; yet all who had opposed them had considered them in the light of persons who had come voluntarily forward, and proposed measures of the utmost danger to the country if agreed to. They were bound to discharge their duty in the manner in which they had performed it: they were bound to point out what they conceived to be the causes of the high price of bullion and of the low rate of ex change. But whatever may be thought of the labours of the Committee, it was not to their opinions to which the Committee had to look; they had only to look to the present state of our circulation. All of them knew how likely that circulation was to be affected by the conduct of
11631162bonâ fide1161Mr. Wilberforce
 observed, that this Bill did in a great measure, assimilate the militia to the regulars, as in neither were the wives and families of volunteers entitled to the provision. He thanked the hon. bart. for his suggestions, and would be happy to have his further opinions on the Bill in the course of its progress. He would take care that the relief should be attainable with the least possible trouble.Mr. W. Pole
l obtained leave to bring in a Bill for making provision for the wives and families of Serjeants, corporals, drummers, and privates, in the Irish militia. He noticed that h is object in bringing forward this Bill was to alter the existing law so as to impose a check and guard upon the frauds committed under it to the amount of 74,000lMr. Wellesky Pole
 thought the statement of the hon. gentleman perfectly satisfactory, and that it would be a harsh, if not an unjust proceeding, to refuse the postponement of the Bill under such circumstances.Mr. W. Pole
 agreed that the object in view was very desirable, and gave it his approbation. He, however, repeated his former suggestions of the injurious tendency of drawing distinctions between the militia and regulars, and granting to the former benefits not enjoyed by the latter who were so gloriously supporting the cause of their country in the field. This would operate against filling up the regiments of the line from the militia; and the necessity of some provision was peculiar to Ireland, where there were no regular establishments as in this country. He again expressed his approbation of the plan, and hoped the parties would be enabled to obtain the relief granted to them, with as little trouble as possible from the distance of the collectors.Sir J. Newport
 acquiesced in the propriety of the proposed plan.Sir J. Newport
 said, he was not answerable for the facts in the petition; but he had seen a letter from the hon. gent. himself stating Mr. Luson's innocence; and he was at a loss to conceive how he had now changed his opinion. With respect to false musters, all that could be said was, that the office, before the examination of lord St. Vincent, was in a state of great confusion; and that Mr. Luson was not equal to all the clerks he had under him, by whom he was imposed on. But surely there were shades of guilt; and this fault of mere inability, ought hardly to have drawn upon a man, after being thirty years in office, such a severe punishment. So high did his character stand in the county of Surrey, that the magistrates would have appointed him to a respectable situation, had that situation not been limited to a certain age.Sir T. Turton
 having said the Petition was not of his hand writing, it was withdrawn for the present.—Shortly after, sir Thomas having procured the signature of Mr. Luson, renewed his motion.Sir T. Turton
1148 said, he held in his hands a Petition from a Mr. Luson, formerly Clerk of the Checques in Sheerness Dock-
1148Sir T. Turton
 then moved, that the Petition do lie on the table.Sir T. Turton
1178dsdsdsd1177ld said, he supposed he had sufficiently explained in his notice of yesterday the object of his present motion, which was to provide a substitute for the duties in the Distillation Bill, that lately failed in the other House. He had to propose that a duty should be imposed on spirits distilled from grain, equal to the duty proposed to be imposed on spirits distilled from sugar. It appeared that spirits distilled from grain were in greater favour with the people of this country than those distilled from sugar. He meant, then, to propose that a duty of 4½1178dsdsdsd1177ldThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 suggested, that there should be a Bill to enable the Scotch distillers to warehouse spirits in the same way as in Ireland.Mr. Hutchinson
 thought that, in order to do away the difficulties that occurred as to drawbacks, there ought to be a Bill to make every person, who claimed drawbacks, shew that he paid as much duty as the drawbacks claimed amounted to.Sir John Newport
 rose and addressed the Committee as follows:Mr. Vansittart
76llllls75 declared that there never was a Committee appointed by that House by which more had been done to elicit the truth, than by the Bullion Committee Their Report, however, was said by some gentlemen to have done mischief; and is had been alledged, that, had it not been for that Report, France would have rescinded her Berlin and Milan Decree, His own merchants, however, had the a told Buonaparté, that if those Decrees were not rescinded, they would cause the ruin of France. In this they had been found to be correct, and the trade of France was now reduced to a state almost of total annihilation. If so, he was willing to hope that, by comparing the last year with the present, the situation of this country would be found to be very different indeed. Many clerks, no doubt, who had received credit in consequence of the excessive issue of paper, and who had embarked thousands of pounds in the wildest of all speculations, had got their names into the Gazette; but had the real, fair, and substantial merchant been reduced to this situation? No. And, of course, instead of our mercantile situation being worse, we were now in a more wholesome state, after having got quit of this excess of paper, with which the market was incumbered; and we had now people of capital ready to embark in trade, whenever a fair prospect of doing so with advantage presented itself. He asked then, was not our situation mended, and was not that of France more fallen than it had hitherto been? All writers agreed that the standard must be either in gold or silver; it could not be in both. Till the year 1717, silver had been the standard in this country; then, indeed but more particularly in the year 1774 the preference was given to gold. The
76llllls75Mr. Magens
 stated the fluctuations of the exchanges, and compared them with the issues of the Bank from the year 1756 to the present time. From the amount of the latter and the state of the former, be contended it was evident that the Bank issues had not the effect upon the ex change which had been supposed; as with reduced issues, the exchange had at various times been reduced, and when those issues were again increased the exchange had recovered.Mr. Pattison
124123122121Returning were as tedious as go o'er.""Should we wade no more,"terræque urbesque recedunt,"120119dslldsl118117116115114l113112sl111slslin110l109108And by decision more embroils the fray.Chaos umpire sits,107106105104103102authority, "fieri non de-butt;"101fieri non debuit, factum valet."1009998979695 rose and said: I should not have thought it necessary. Sir, to trouble the Committee with the expression of my sentiments in this night's debate, after the able and lucid speech of the hon. gent, who spoke last, if I had not been desirous of addressing myself more particularly than he has done to the Propositions now brought forward, in the shape of Resolutions, by the right hon. gent, opposite to me, which are the immediate subject of this night's deliberation124123122121Returning were as tedious as go o'er.""Should we wade no more,"terræque urbesque recedunt,"120119dslldsl118117116115114l113112sl111slslin110l109108And by decision more embroils the fray.Chaos umpire sits,107106105104103102authority, "fieri non de-butt;"101fieri non debuit, factum valet."1009998979695Mr. Canning
128127126125 regretted, that he was again under the necessity of trespassing upon the time of the Committee upon this subject, but there were some points in the speech of his right hon. friend which he could not avoid noticing. His right hon. friend seemed to think that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) ought to retract the admission he had made on a former night, namely, that the diminution of the quantity of paper might diminish the balance of exchange against us, because it made against his general argument the admission which he had made, however, he was not disposed to retract, because it did not appear to him to clash in the slightest degree with the principles which he maintained. The diminution of paper in circulation would make a favourable alteration in the exchange, but then it would be necessary to discontinue the exertions we were making abroad, and to abandon our allies: but this would not be the only inconvenience which would result, because the same operation would affect our commerce, our agriculture, and all those sources of wealth by which we had been so long able to maintain this contest. It appeared to him, therefore, that the question for the Committee to decide was, whether it would be a wise policy to discontinue those exertions which we were making upon the Continent, and injure our agriculture and commerce, which we must do if we dimnished the quantity of paper in circulation for the purpose of making an alteration in the course of exchange.—He would not repeat all the arguments which he had before used, to shew that what gentlemen termed the depreciation of paper, did not arise from an over-issue of it, but from: other causes; but he was convinced that
128127126125The chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed the Resolutions.Mr. Morris
 said, he would prefer bringing it up to morrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then gave notice, that he would move an Amendment to the-first Resolution, if that of the hon. gent.,(Mr. Canning) was rejected, the object of which would be to do away all the Resolutions.Mr. Tierney
 begged to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to have the Report brought up immediately, as he had an Amendment to propose?Mr Tierney
9493lll9291lll90dsdssldsldsldsl89888786858483828180797877 observed, that having, when he before addressed himself to, the House, spoken antecedently to alt those gentlemen to whom he was opposed, excepting only one right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose), who had chiefly dwelt on they details of the Report; and having now the advantage of distinctly knowing the grounds on which their argument rested; he was anxious to be permitted once more-to offer himself to their notice.9493lll9291lll90dsdssldsldsldsl89888786858483828180797877Mr. Henry Thornton
*ll*23llll2221**20l19ll1817lldslsldsl16d.l1514ddsl13121110***987***6543d2: The Resolutions proposed by the learned Chairman of the Bullion Committee (Mr. Horner) having been rejected by the House, it is now my duty to bring under their consideration those of which I have given notice, and which have for some time been printed. I shall think it unnecessary to enter at much length into the discussion of general principles which have been so fully debated, and upon which I have the satisfaction to find the opinion of a great majority of the House conformable to my own. And the course of proceeding adopted with great candour by the learned gent., enables me to dispense with that minute proof which I am prepared to give, by a reference to authentic documents, of the truth of the facts stated in my proposed Resolutions. With a view to fair and convenient discussion, be has prepared a series of amendments, in
*ll*23llll2221**20l19ll1817lldslsldsl16d.l1514ddsl13121110***987***6543d2Mr. Lushington
132131 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to permit the interchange of the British and Irish Militia respectively. He was convinced that gentlemen would be surprised that a measure like the present had been so long delayed, rather than that it was now proposed. This, he presumed, the House would feel, on the principle that when the two countries were indissolubly united together, it ought to follow that what was the interest and duty of the one, should be so of both. At the same time, the House would not forget, that the power of France had not, till lately, made those gigantic strides towards universal dominion which now marked her course, and rendered less probable a permanent and lasting peace. Whatever opinion gentlemen might entertain as to the mode of proceeding to be adopted by us, and however much they might disapprove of our continental efforts to check the enemy, still there could be but one opinion, as to the necessity of united efforts at home; and this could never be fully attained while our militias were confined to one country. He knew he might be told that they had formerly volunteered an interchange of their services, and that they would be ready to do so again. But this did not apply, and it was to be hoped that no such event as that would again occur. The proposition he had to make did not need instances to illustrate it. But he might refer to the campaign in Portugal of this year, where nothing was now left to be done, but as to which all our fears, anxieties, and expectations were now converted into joy and exultation; and he might ask gentlemen if when they were anxiously waiting to hear of reinforce-
132131Mr. Secretary Ryder
133 not mean to object to the bringing in of the bill, though he saw some difficulties that must attend the adoption of the measure. It ought to have been carried into effect at the time of the Union, or shortly after, when there was an interval of peace. The officers, who might be averse to this plan, might then have retired, without being subject to any reflection upon their conduct. At present, many of them might, by the operation of this bill, be put to very great inconvenience. As a proof that there might be some objection to it, he reminded the right hon. secretary that such a measure had been in contemplation 1804, but had been abandoned, probably on account of the resolutions passed at meetings of lord lieutenants of counties disapproving of it. He allowed that this would increase the disposable force, but so would the sending the militia abroad. This was very different from the volunteering into the line, for there the soldier left his officers, and when the fixed period ended, the matter was at rest. He further observed, that this might have a very injurious effect on the volunteering from the militia, as the soldier must be almost cer-
133Mr. Wynn did
 said, that there never had been a negative on the interchange of services. In 1804, the object was to accept the voluntary offers of 10,000 of the Irish militia to serve in England, to replace that number which had volunteered from the English militia into the line. That there were difficulties in the way of the execution of this measure, he admitted; but it generally happened that the difficulties of a plan were in proportion to its utility. The difficulties, how ever, were not insuperable. He was satisfied that there would be a very general disposition in the militia officers to extend the benefit of their services.Lord Castlereagh
 of Kerry strongly approved of the measure.Mr. Herbert
 stated, that though general orders had been issued not to restrict the Catholic soldiers in the exercise of their religion, they were but partially attended. Even when the Catholic soldiers were permitted to attend their chapels, they were often marched afterwards to a church of the establishment, which, by the canons of their own church, subjects them to excommunication. The observation of his hon. friend (Mr. Tighe) therefore, required some notice. He also stated the fact, that out of 3,000 recruits sent to the depot at the Isle of Wight, only 160 belonged to the established church. Most of the rest, he presumed were Catholics.Sir John Cox Hippesley
 said, that the militia of Ireland though in this country, would still be the Irish militia and would, therefore, by law be entitled to the exemptions and privileges which they had in Ireland.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 adverted to the hardship of placing the militia officer in a situation where he must alter the nature of his engagement, or subject himself to the odium of government.Col. Bustard
 moved for a copy of lord Liver-pool's letter to Governor Hislop of Trinidad, refusing to establish the British constitution in that Island, and stating the reasons for that refusal; for the Articles of Capitulation of Trinidad; the commission appointing Mr. Smith, first Alcalde, or chief judge, &c. &c.Mr. Murryatt
 said, he would have opposed the motion if he could have done so-without entering into particulars. It could do no good to bring the subject forward at present, and might do a great deal of harm. As he could not oppose the motion without entering into the subject, he would allow it to pass. He concluded by stating, that if the object was to shew that the British constitution should have been introduced into Trinidad, he would move for a petition of the free people of colour in that island, against the measure presented in July 1810. He would then leave it to the discretion of the hon. gent., whether he would proceed farther in the business.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
135 reported from the Com-
135Mr. Wharton
139ll138lllllllll137llllllllllllll136 rose, and declared that he felt very reluctant, after the long and able discussion which had already taken place upon this subject, to offer any thing further to the attention of the House. But having had the honour to be a member of the Bullion Committee, and having also concurred in all the opinions expressed in its Report, he trusted that he might be indulged for a short time with their intention. He apprehended that among all the gentlemen who had spoken on this question, none had sufficiently considered what might be the consequence of a perseverance in our present system. Much bad been very justly said on the virtual breach of faith towards the public creditor, and it was impossible that too much anxiety could be felt on that point. The debate had, however, in his judgment, done much good in drawing from those who opposed the conclusions of the Bullion Report, some concessions which had been obstinately withheld in many of the pamphlets by which that Report had been followed. With only one exception, every member who had joined, in the discussion had disclaimed all belief in or adherence to any imaginary standard, in the constitution of our monied system, and that exception was the noble lord under the gallery (lord Castlereagh), whose criterion was still more fanciful and wild than any he had ever heard of. The standard had been moreover acknowledged to be the precious metals, and the only point in dispute between his hon. friend near him and the right hon. gent. below him was, whether as bullion or, as coin they were the most effectual and undoubted standard. This was a point he thought of no great importance, since coin alone derived its value from the quantity of bullion which it contained. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had also distinctly admitted in his speech on the preceding evening, that a
139ll138lllllllll137llllllllllllll136Mr. Johnstone
l141** contended, that the present difficulties of the country arose out of the state of its foreign trade. If we had no exports for our imports, it was not surprising that the price of bullion should be high and the rate of exchange low. The system of exchanges admitted of almost as much gambling as dealing in the funds. What had taken place upon this question had done much mischief; but he was persuaded that the result of their discussions would remedy the evil. As to the depreciation of paper, he should say, that neither the Bank could pay its notes in specie, nor could any gentleman in England pay one hundredth part of his debts in coin. When he took a promissory note, it was not in the
l141**Mr. Thompson
142 in commenting on the speech of an hon. gent. (Mr. Fuller), said, he was willing to leave to that gentleman his oyster shells provided he would give him in return more gold and silver. A noble lord (Castlereagh) in speaking of our northern fellow subjects, the Scots, had called them what no man could deny them to be, a most moral and ingenious people. His proof of that assertion was, however, rather whimsical. He had said that not a peasant could be found in Scotland who would prefer guineas to bank notes; if so, he could assure the noble lord that their countrymen in London were distinguished by a very different sort of magnanimity; for here the difficulty would be to get them to take paper where they could get guineas. The noble lord, however, might have drawn more striking facts from amongst his own countrymen. In Ireland there was no taking up a newspaper, with-
142Mr. Marryatt,
 asked the right hon. gent. opposite, whether in the mention which he made in his first Resolution of "the right of establishing and regulating the legal money of the kingdom, having been at all times a royal prerogative," he intended to imply that the prerogative was entire and unlimited?Mr. Canning
 replied, that his Resolution had been drawn in compliance with the precedent stated in lord Liverpool's work and founded on the authority of sir Matthew Hale and others.Mr. Vansittart
 adverted to the 14 of the King, chapters 70 and 92, regulating the weight and fineness of the coin of the realm.Mr. Canning
 observed, that his Resolution did not trench on that act; and repeated that observation in answer to some similar remarks from Mr. Huskisson.Mr. Vansittart
 maintained, that his right hon. friend's Resolution was not at all contrary to the spirit of the act alluded to.Mr. Rose
144 called the attention of the House to the danger of passing this Resolution. It affirmed, that it had always been the right of the crown to mix the proportions of pure metal and alloy in the coin at its pleasure, and to make it represent what value it pleased. This he denied. There had always been a standard, and in proof of this he referred to the statute of Edward 3. That the crown possessed, and had exercised a right which was nearly equivalent in effect, namely, the right of altering the denomination of the coin, was true. Some of our kings had adopted this method of cheating their subjects, but as lord Liverpool had said, that was an expedient which in the end had never been profitable or honourable to the
144Mr. Ponsonby
 on the other hand, maintained that the Resolution was perfectly correct, and easily to be comprehended.Mr. Bathurst,
 was decidedly of opinion, that the declarations respecting the royal prerogative on this subject in his right hon. friend's Resolution, and the Resolution of the hon. and learned gent. were equivalent to each other. In both was expressed what in common law was the prerogative, and the way in which that prerogative was limited by statute. The indulgence with which the gentlemen opposite overlooked this in the hon. and learned gentleman's Resolution, and the acuteness with which they detected it in his right hon. friend's, was a proof of ingenuity rather than of candour.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended that all those who had read the Resolution of the hon. and learned gent. must perceive that he had himself subscribed to the opinion of lord Hale. This was the natural arid obvious meaning of his expressions. (Hear, hear! from Mr. Wynn.) He would not be prevented by any vociferation, however offensive, from declaring his opinion. He extolled the value and authority of sir J. Davis's Reports, and observed that the Resolution before the House did not imply that the prerogative was to be exercised without consent of parliament.The Attorney General
 vindicated, the right of every member to interrupt another when advancing unsupported assertion?:, and observed that the case in Ireland, mentioned in the Reports alluded to, took place at a period when Judges travelled in Ireland in the midst of an army.Mr. Wynn
 said, he was indebted to the right hon. mover for thus giving him an opportunity to remark, that the prerogative of altering the denomination of the coin having been limited and defined by a positive statute, he could not conceive what motive could induce any member to call upon the House to contradict by its Resolutions the written law of the land. If in conformity to such a resolution, a proclamation should appear to-morrow for altering or lowering the standard, even by a single grain, of our currency, any man acting in obedience to it would subject himself to all the penalties of the law. With this conviction, he intended, therefore, if the right hon. gent.'s Amendment should be rejected, to propose in lieu of it the following addition—" and that the weight and fineness of the gold and silver required to be contained in the coins of the realm are fixed and ascertained by H Geo. 3 cap. 96."Mr. Canning
146, though fully sensible of the value of lord Hale's opinion, knew that both he and lord Coke sometimes committed mistakes in point of law: and that; he thought that sir Wm. Blackstone,
146Mr. Ponsonby
 then brought forward his amendment, stating in addition, that the weight of gold and silver was fixed by the 14th Geo. 3, cap. 96, which alter a short conversation was negatived.Mr. Canning
 opposed the adjournment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
130llllll129 rose, agreeably to notice
130llllll129Mr. R. Dundas
 commenced with a history of the nature of coin; and then proceeded to discuss Mr. Huskisson's pamphlet: he said, that gold had been considered the most precious metal from its rarity, as well as from its ornament and use. It was the most ductile, the most malleable, the most beautiful of all the metals; and it was besides the most hard to be got. The hon. gent. said, he was clearly of opinion, that gold bullion was not the standard of our currency; that mint coin, and mint coin only was; and that paper, as referable to such coin, was not in the smallest degree depreciated.Mr. C. Adams
 for the purpose of having his own Resolutions recorded on the Journals, moved as an Amendment, to leave out all the words after the word, "That," for the purpose of inserting those Resolutions.Mr. Horner,
145 hoped the House would come gravely to a decision on this most important point, without reference to the merits of either set of Resolutions. If his Resolutions contained precisely the same import as his right hon. friend's, why had the right hon. gent. voted against it? As to the authority of lord Hale, he admitted it to be great, but it was opposed by that of Blackstone, who held that the king's prerogative did not extend to the debasement of the current coin. In what part of Hale, too, was his opinion found? It was in a commentary on the reports of cases in Ireland, by sir John Davis. The
145Mr. Horner
 said that as a former Amendment for omitting certain words in the Resolution had been rejected, he should move that there be added to it these words "and that it is expedient to declare it."Mr. Tierney
 slated it to be his intention to move an amendment to the third Resolution, and he was anxious that the whole question should be adjourned.Mr. Tierney
 said this was unfair, as he had never been able to get an opportunity of delivering his sentiments.Mr. Tierney
 thought the Resolution erroneously expressed.Mr. H. Thornton
*140ssss rose and said: Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member who has just spoken, alluded to my financial knowledge, I am only greatly surprised, and very much obliged to him. But he might as well have talked upon any thing else. For; Mr. Speaker, I don't like this business at all. I think that it is a humbug. I think that it is the greatest humbug that ever was put upon the country since that affair of the duke of York. There is no depreciation; or I know nothing at all about the matter. I can't understand how they would make out that there is any depreciation of the currency of the country. No, Sir, this is all the attempt—this is all the system of the base faction, the cowardly faction, who are undermining the credit of the country. (Cries of Order, order!) Yes, Sir, the faction that originates every thing malevolent to——, but, Sir, I go to other things. Some gentlemen, Sir, say the guinea was once worth 20*140ssssMr. Fuller
 spoke shortly in denial of the depreciation.Mr. Simeon
 followed on the same side.Mr. P. Carew
134 was hardly satisfied with this off hand opinion. He wished that the opinions of the law officers of the crown should be taken, that the House might know how the matter stood. If
134Mr. Whitbread
ll highly approved of an increase being made to the salary of the president of the board of controul. He did the whole of the business. During the fourteen months that he was connected with that Board, he never heard that they had once met. If the president had 4,000llMr. Creevey
 said, that some from habit might be averse to the interchange; but the measure ought not to be given up on that account, considering its extensive utility. He was persuaded there would be a general desire to extend their services, if the measure appeared to be a beneficial one. The officers got their commissions without purchase, and might relinquish them without loss.Col. Bagwell
143lll proceeded to state a fact or two, as proofs of the depreciation; first; That a pipe of wine, for which 110143lllMr. W. Smith
 asked, whether the Roman Catholic officer and soldier were to be allowed the free exercise of their religion when in England? This ought to be attended to. If the ministers thought the Irish militia would be so useful in defending the country, they ought to adopt the measures which would remove all impediments to such a desirable object. They ought to put an end to all religious distinctions, and then they would have the whole army disposable for those speculations and objects which the Secretary of State had mentioned.Mr. Tighe
 approved the measure, but thought that every doubt as to the maintenance of the exemptions of the Catholic officers and soldiers ought to be done away by a provision in the bill. In looking over the act for securing the succession, he was far from being satisfied that no legislative enactment on this point was required.Sir John Newport
lld that the proclamation as to the rise in the value of dollars would put the Bank to a loss of 6lldMr. Manning explained,
 denied the facts asserted in Mr. Horner's Amendments.Mr. Vansittart
 Resolutions were then put and agreed to, after which the House adjourned.The whole of Mr. Vansittart's
163dsdd162161160159158 I should not probably have troubled the House at so late a period of the discussion, after the doctrines contained in the Bullion Report, had been so ably refuted by several respectable members, had I not been personally alluded to in the course of these debates, by an hon. gent. (Mr. Whitbread), as having become a proselyte to new opinions. This is a point which I think it necessary to explain. In the year 1797, I happened to be a member of the House, when the restriction on the payments of cash at the Bank of England was first established. I was then inclined to believe, that the continuation of that restriction would be injurious to the commercial and general interests of the country, and that it was possible to form a plan by which the payment of cash at the Bank might soon be resumed. Those ideas I stated to the public in a short tract, which has often been invidiously quoted by those who concur in the doctrines of the Bullion Committee. It is absurd, however, to contend, that the opinions of men, like the laws of the Medes and Persians, should be perfectly unalterable, and that no change of circumstances, no further experience, no new and decisive facts, should make any impression on the mind of one, anxious to ascertain the truth, and open to conviction. My object then was, to maintain a system which I thought had materially tended to promote the prosperity of the country. My object now is, to maintain another system, which I am convinced has answered the public interest better; and if the hon. gent., (Mr. Whitbread),
163dsdd162161160159158Mr. Speaker;
172 was of opinion, that it would be most desirable, whenever it could be safely done, to revert to the old practice; but did not think that this country was in any immediate danger from a depreciated silver currency, after having so long gone on with debased shillings and sixpences manufactured by France at one half what they were current for here. As to the Amendment, no doubt could be entertained as to what was meant by it; but it was objectionable, as proceeding upon a principle at present impracticable. The operations of the nation could not be carried on if the circulation were to be much diminished. When in 1797, the Bank drew in its issues, the loan of four millions was raised at a benefit of 8 per cent. to the contractors, whereas the loan of last year was obtained at nearly the price of the funds in which it was borrowed. The ill consequences of such a diminution of the currency would be felt by the public, who were borrowing constantly by anticipation; but it behoved that House to guard the public interests from the injury they would thereby sustain. If any individual in his private concerns should feel apprehensive of a storm, he would take care, by contracting his out-goings, to be prepared to meet it. That House was bound to take the same course with respect to the affairs of the public, and to prepare the vessel to ride out the tempest by taking in the light sails, and putting her in a proper trim to encounter the storm. He was not a little surprised to hear the sentiments of the hon. member who had quoted the authority of Locke and Newton upon this subject; though he could not wonder at such authorities being referred to, when an hon. member last night even quoted the authority of Moses. He had never said that the system originated with Mr. Pitt. Whatever might be thought of it, no man could speak disrespectfully of a system which had enabled the country to maintain an expensive war for so long a period. No gentleman, who looked at the situation of the country, could think it expedient now to return to cash-payments; and it must be clear to anyone, who bore
172Mr. A. Baring
 then proposed his several Amendments to the Resolutions of Mr. Vansittart, not with the view to any discussion, but that they might be entered on the Journals.Mr. Horner
 was content that the matter should now rest on their counter assertions, which would thus appear opposed to each other on the Journals.Mr. Horner
 then proposed his Amendment, as an addition to the Sixteenth Resolution; but this addition was also negatived.Mr. Tierney
157156155154ll153152 rose and said, that if the subject was of less importance, he should have to apologize to the House for taking up any more, of their time upon a topic which had already been so ably discussed. He really, after the first night's debate, felt no inclination to speak upon the subject, as it appeared to him to be then disposed of. He had never heard an abler discussion in Parliament than had taken place upon this subject; and he thought the highest compliment was due to the hon. and learned gent. (Mr. Horner) who brought forward the business, for the reach and comprehension of mind which had enabled him to take in the whole of this most extensive and difficult subject—for the unwearied industry with which he had collected such a mass of information upon it—and for conveying that information to the House, in a speech of such forcible eloquence as had rarely occurred in our parliamentary history. Agreeing, as he did, most perfectly in all the general Resolutions of that hon. and learned gent, he could not agree with him in his last Resolution, which assigned the expiration of two years as the period when the Bank should be obliged to resume its cash payments. He should have abstained from troubling the House at present, if the proposal he had made last night had been agreed to. He could have wished that the Report of the Bullion Committee had been left alone to work its own way in the public opinion: but when it was not thought sufficient to reject the Resolution contained in that Report, but that it was also thought necessary that the House should pass Resolutions of a contrary tendency, he felt it necessary to propose an Amendment. He chose to move his Amendment upon the third Resolution, because those who brought it forward professed, that passing this Resolution would put the question of depreciation at rest. But in what manner was it now attempted to put this question to rest? His hon. and learned friend (Mr. Horner) had proposed in a Resolution, "That the actual value of the promissory notes of the Bank of England (measuring such value by weight of standard gold and silver as aforesaid) has been, for a considerable period of time, and still is, considerably less than what is establish by the laws of the realm to be the legal tender in payment of any money contract or stipula-
157156155154ll153152Mr. Tierney
lds stated that within these two days a banker had put into his hands 500 guineas in gold, requesting to have in exchange for them, from the Bank, tokens to the amount, at the rate of 5ldsMr. S. Thornton
, in allusion to former opinions of sir Sinclair's upon this subject, said, that although the right hon. bart. had changed his mind upon the question of currency, he bad no right to suppose that others had done the same upon other subjects. The right hon. bart. had changed his mind just in time to be made a Privy Counsellor. (No! from the opposite side.) Well, it was not just then, if the hon. bart. would have it so; but it was just then that the right hon. bart. bad signified his determination to publish a pamphlet on the question, and that pamphlet on the side of government. It was, however, not fair to impute to him (Mr. Whitbread,) any of the versatility which the right hon. bart. might feel. As to the opinion which he (Mr. Whitbread), had delivered with respect to the campaign in Portugal, he had spoken from all that he was allowed to know. Put when more ample information came, and lord Wellington's plan was developed, there was not any person in that House who was more willing to give that officer full and ready praise.Mr. Whitbread
 called the attention of the House to his notice of a motion on the subject of Parliamentary Reform, which stood for that day. Although this was a subject of the most important description, yet for the convenience of his friends and of the House, he had agreed to postpone his motion. It was with great inconvenience to himself that he did so, as he was under the necessity of going to the country immediately, on business that could not be neglected. If he had brought it on that night, however, he was aware that the House, after the tedious and interesting discussions in which they bad for some time been engaged, would hardly have been able to attend to the subject of his motion, in a way suitable to its importance. With the leave of the House, therefore, he would withdraw his motion for the present. He could not exactly fix a day for bringing it on; but he hoped to be able to do so early in the ensuing month.Mr. Brand
170 rose merely to make one or two observations upon what had fallen from the right hon. bart. and the hon. gent, who had just sat down. He apprehended that the right hon. bart. had in his zeal for the paper cause let out considerably more than the advocates of paper could wish to have disclosed. He seemed not only to deny the evils of an excessive paper issue, but to hail it as another and most promising system of finance; and that, as for the vulgar prejudices in favour of gold and silver, they ought to be at once exploded or left merely to those modern Midasses who would ruin the country in the fury of their speculations; this glorious paper system was to rescue us from all the horrors of gold and silver Which the right hon. bart had proved by a quotation from a French pamphlet must inevitably make "the poor miserable and the rich wicked and powerful." With respect to the Dutch coin mentioned by the hon. gent, the Ruyder, he believed it was the oldest coin in Holland. It was certainly prohibited from exportation by one of those absurd laws which were allowed to continue in many countries without one reason to warrant the continuance of their operation. But the instance put by the hon. gent, could not apply unless he was prepared to state that the Ruyder had not become deteriorated. It was rectainly a very old coin; and the coin to which the Dutch directed their attention Chiefly was the ducat which was exportable, so that the probability was, that the Ruyder had become deteriorated. With regard to the third Resolution, he wished to know from
170Mr. Huskisson
169 defended the conduct of the directors of the Bank of England, and denied that the Bank had any interest distinct from that of the public. In speaking from himself, which he had done in all that he had said upon this subject, and not as a person commissioned to state to that House the sentiments of the Bank, he was free to say that his situation as a director derived to him no advantage whatever, save what flowed to him, in the channel of the public interests. He was no farther a stock-
169Mr. Manning
150149148147 said he rose, in pursuance, of the notice he gave a few days ago, to move fop leave to bring in a Bill to ap-
150149148147Mr. Wellesley Pole
 hoped that the actual formation and execution of the plan alluded to by the right hon. mover, would not be long delayed. The commission had already existed 10 years, and something should be done. He was satisfied that that man would be the greatest benefactor of Ireland, and of this country also, who succeeded best in the promotion of education, and by that means in the promotion of virtue and good morals.Mr. Wilberforce
 was satisfied the effect of the present discussion would be gradually to lead to true and just principles on the subject; and he was also satisfied that those would be found to be the best friends to the country who advised, that even in a state of prosperity, the present system should not be pushed too far.Mr. Wilberforce
 rose and said:Sir John Sinclair
 regretted that there were some schools in Ireland not mentioned in the Report of the commissioners. He disapproved of increasing the salaries of masters too much, as it would have a tendency to make them negligent; and insisted that no schools should be exempted from the superintending power. He was surprised that those who held dioceses in Ireland, and were bound by oath to instruct a certain number of pupils as prescribed by law, should have neglected to comply with it. The commissioners, he thought, ought to have power to compel every parish to make a return; and the fair inference, he thought, from neglecting to make returns was, that they were conscious of having omitted their duty.Sir John Newport
 said he would not vote on this question after what had fallen from the Speaker, but expressed a wish that the point should be clearly decided.Mr. Ward
179178 (of Dublin) seconded the motion, he said that of the existence of the evils complained of by the Petitioners there could be no reasonable doubt, and when they considered what must be the inevitable consequences of not timely remedying those evils, and also how fatal their longer continuance must be to a trade of such weight and extent as that of the Brewers, it really appeared to him as if the present question was in effect, whether it was for the interests of Ireland that the Breweries in that country should be allowed by the legislature to exist at all? It ought surely to be a principle in the imposing of taxes, that as for as it could possibly be done, we should a oid injuring the morals of the people. Indeed, in his view of the question, he thought that morals should never be sacrificed to revenue. Since the great reduction of the duties on spirits distilled in Ireland, he believed there was no gentleman who had been for any time in that country since that period, who must not have been sensibly struck with the rapid and lamented change in the general habits and morals of the lower orders of the people. He spoke from his knowledge, when he said that that change had been felt among the lower orders of the city of Dublin, to an extent
179178Mr. Shaw
dsdsdsds agreed in the practice of the principle laid down by both the hon. gentlemen who preceded him. He should be ashamed to hold his office one hour for the purpose of raising a revenue at the expence of the morals of the Irish people. The hon. gentleman who spoke last had said, that the reduction was a mere experiment to put down illicit distillation. Certainly that had been its principal object—and an object in the endeavour to effect which he had all these gentlemen with him. Illicit distillation was the great evil, and the higher the duty on the spirits, the greater the premium to the illicit distiller. He had proposed a penalty on the town lands where illicit stills were found, and this mode might have at least put them down, if it had not been for that most unfortunate measure of prohibiting the distillation in Ireland. But the hon. gent. had contended that the reduction had totally failed in suppressing illicit distillation. In answer to this, he should merely read the returns of the Revenue Officers for the quarter ending December 25, 1810. The amount of seizures were as follows: 572 stills, 378 kegs, 344 worms, 5,362 utensils, 2,800 galions of spirits, and 150,000 gallons of pot-ale. He denied also that the spirits were at the present so much cheaper, as had been asserted—in 1804 the spirits were 7dsdsdsdsMr. Foster
 thought it would be impossible to raise the duty on spirits either in Ireland or in the western parts of Scotland, without injuring the revenue; and opposed the going into the Committee.Mr. W. Tailor
181dss said, that all the great brewers in Ireland had signed the Petition, and therefore it was not to be considered as the Petition of a few individuals, but as the representatives of the whole body. The right hon. gent. had said the prices of spirits were not greater now than in 1807; but he would ask him if the brewer retained the same situation that he then held? While the duty on spirits had been lowered from 4181dssMr. Hutchinson
 said he had no objection to a Select Committee.Mr. Foster
 thought it unfair to ascribe the increased immorality to the reduction of the duty on spirits, if spirits were not lower now than in 1807. It was much more natural to ascribe it to the great reduction of the price which took place on the prohibition to distil being removed. With respect to the hospitals, he had been informed that in consequence of several important improvements which had been made in them, the aversion of the people to them had been in a great measure removed, and the patients consequently increased.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that no revenue consideration ought to interfere with the morals of the people. It was certainly the prevailing opinion in Ireland, that the low duties on spirits had occasioned the late increase of drunkenness. Spirits ought to be discouraged, and malt liquor encouraged, and the people of Ireland were beginning to habituate themselves to the latter. There was a time perhaps when spirits might be more suitable to the people of Ireland than malt liquor, but now, when they were better clothed, lodged and fed, they did not require spirits to warm them.Lord Castlereagh
183ssllldslllsl182 rose and spoke to the following effect: Sir; In pursuance of a notice I gave some days ago, I beg to call the attention of the House to the Petition of the Proprietors of Newspapers in Ireland. [See vol. 19, p. 1012.] The object of that Petition is to solicit the repeal of the additional duty upon Advertisements laid upon them in the course of the last session; and I particularly request the attention of the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Foster) and the indulgence of the House, while I state a few but strong facts upon which the Petitioners claim is founded. The tax complained of went at once to affect all Advertisements in proportion to their extent, and the result of a year's experience has proved beyond contradiction, that this tax is not only oppressive to the Pe-
183ssllldslllsl182Mr. Shaw
185lllslslsdsl184l Sir; the hon. gent. over the way says, that this an oppressive tax, and to prove it, he adds, that two newspapers have been set up in Ireland. He states, that the duty would have fallen very considerably short, if 1,000185lllslslsdsl184lMr. Foster.
188Sir, I cannot help thinking that it would be a great advantage if the press of Ireland were to be supported in the same way as in this country, and the greater the encouragement that is held out for its multiplication, the greater will be the ultimate benefit to be derived from it.—When the right hon. gent. on the other side talks of placing the English and Irish duties on the same footing, he should remember that the duties in this country have grown with the growth of the press, and they cannot be parted with now; and in Ireland in proportion to the productiveness of the revenue, will be the strength which the nation will obtain. I have nothing more to say on the subject at present, but to remark once for all, that the duty as levied now on the number, of
188Mr. P. Moore.—
l190189 said,—Sir, I feel it necessary to say only a few words on this subject, which is a sort of charge on my right hon. friend. The tax is laid upon advertisements, and the hon. gent. who brought the matter forward, tells the House that there is a certain description of persons who are peculiarly fond of reading advertisements, and therefore he concludes, that as the advertisements are lessened, the demand for the papers will be also diminished. What description of persons those are, who are advertisement readers, or who would be deterred from purchasing the papers, because there are not quite so many, it is difficult to understand; it is not easy to
l190189The Chancellor of the Exchequer
sss191 If I were to advise the proprietors of newspapers in Ireland, I should recommend them to abide by the tax as it is, rather than to seek it to be imposed as in England, for I believe they pay less at present, and lose less in their profits, than if they were to pay the tax paid by the proprietors of English newspapers. They will find, that the right hon. gentleman opposite has not made a proposal to night extremely beneficial to them, if he were to change the subsisting tax in Ireland for the subsisting tax in England. They say, if you do not like the tax as it is, how shall we give you help; and the only answer they make, is an addition to what you complain of. Now, the contribution in England is 15 parts out of 17; the whole contribution of Ireland to be raised by a single tax, by the act of Union alone, would amount to only two parts out of 17. It is an odd standard, to take off the ability of Ireland, to say, that England pays the same tax;
sss191Mr. Ponsonby.
193lsllll192—I am sure the House is very much indebted to the right hon. gent. opposite, for his amusing comments, but I do not think that they will have any great weight with the House, though I at the same time give him great credit for turning this most serious subject into ridicule and humour. But the advertising readers are not so much to be despised, because, if he examined, he would see how much the revenue is increased by the advertisements, and he would be aware how great a defalcation of that revenue would take place, if the advertisement readers were to be scoffed and laughed out of their reading. But the reason why my hon. friend adverted to it was this, that no paper either in this country or in Ireland can support itself but through the medium of advertisements.
193lsllll192Mr. Hutchinson.
 said, that he had no intention of attacking the liberty of the pressMr. Foster
195194 I do not feel it necessary to trouble the House for more than a few minutes, to reply to the observations which have been made in opposition to the motion which I had the honour of submitting to their consideration; and first, I must allude to the argument touched upon by the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Foster), that because a newspaper has been set up in Dublin since the tax was imposed, that therefore it cannot be
195194Mr. Shaw.
 called the attention of the House to the present state of the law with respect to Elections in Ireland. It was well known, that before a person was permitted to vote for the return of a member to parliament, it was necessary that he should register his estate, and take certain oaths prescribed by law. In those oaths blanks were left to be filled up, and in the filling of them up frequent disputes arose, which had caused many petitions to be sent to that House. It was with respect to those blanks that he wished something to be done, that a man should not lose his elective franchise through any informality in filling them up. In addition to all the other forms, it was rendered necessary by the acts of 13th, 14th, and 33d of the king, that the Roman Catholic should produce a certificate of his having taken the oaths, &c. before he could be allowed to Vote. Now, in some instances it had happened that the officers appointed to give the certificate, had, through not giving a proper certificate, deprived the Catholic of his vote. In the year 1795, he remembered that no fewer than 400 freeholders were in such a predicament at the time of a contested election in which he Was concerned. He wished the law to be amended in\these respects, and was desirous of making a provision to enable the Catholic in certain cases to take out a new certificate, which at present could not be done: He concluded by moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act for Regulating Elections in Ireland of Members to serve in Parliament.Colonel Barry
—The hon. gent. mentions now, that the tax on hand-bills is to be taken into consideration with the other subject, if I understand the object of his motion. I can only say, that the tax on hand bills was recommended to me by one of the gentlemen proprietors of newspapers in Dublin, who said that hand-bills ought to have a reasonable tax laid upon them, so that they should not have the advantage, and draw the advertisements from the newspapers. I acceded to the wish, and he proposed a penny on hand-bills, which I thought too much, and said it ought to be only one halfpenny. All I say, is, that much injury will indeed be done, if the English mode is adopted, but if the hon. gent. likes it, he can if he wishes have it adopted.Mr. Foster.
dsds moved, That the Petition from the Irish Brewers, praying that the Duty of 2dsdsMr. Grattan
l—I do not think that the scale of taxation in this case is fair: it doubles every ten lines. Now, that is no principle of taxation, it may subject our Press to much heavier burthens, to a much greater weight, and ought not to be adopted. The right hon. gent. will be pleased to recollect that if what he said was true, that the tax dots not go directly to affect the liberty of the press, but it may affect the circulation of the press, and if you affect the circulation you affect the liberty of the press in this way; that few men will undertake to conduct newspapers unless they are under the protection of other men of influence and weight, so as to convert the press at any time to the purpose of any minister. I beg leave to observe, that I think the right hon. gent. was perfectly disinterested in proposing this tax. He suggested a system of taxation to the amount of 300,000lMr. Grattan.
 asked the right hon. gent. whether he consented to a Committee.Mr. Grattan
 spoke in favour of a Committee up stairs.Sir H. Montgomery
 assured the hon. member (Mr. P. Carew) that if he should vote on the question, he would challenge his vote.Mr. Fuller
177** thought there was no danger to be apprehended on that head. No question could arise on the validity of any
177**Mr. Huskisson
196 ob-
196Mr. W. Pole
s said, that he had been applied to by several printers in Dublin to propose a repeal of the stamp duties on hand bills. There was an objection to this duty as well as to the duties on advertisements, which he conceived could not be got over; they were directly contrary to the express enactment of the 7th article of the Union, which provided, that no article in Ireland should be made subject to a higher duty than the same article was subject to in England. In this country there was no duty on hand bills, and on advertisements the duty never could exceed 3sMr. Parnell
 moved the further consideration of the Report of the above Bill, which was opposed by sir W. Curtis, and sir J. Anstruther, who moved that it be postponed to this day three months. After a further conversation, in the course of which Mr. Simeon and Mr. Shaw Lefevre spoke against the original motion, and Mr. Pole Carew in support of it, a question arose as to the propriety of disallowing the votes of members, personally interested; upon which the Speaker rose and referred to two cases, one in 1800, and an antecedent one in 1797, when this description of votes had been rejected.Sir John Cox Hippisley
 observed, that such a principle might be extended to any length, and quoted the instances of questions connected with the public funds, the encouragement of corn, &c. Those who had an interest in opposing, by the same rule, ought to be excluded.Sir J. Newport
 said, that nothing like false shame should ever keep him from retracting an opinion, when he was convinced it was unfounded. The reason which had induced him to vote against the fines on town lands was, that they had increased to such an extent as to produce a sort of conviction that they could not be levied. He alluded in particular to the county of Cavan. But the great question was, whether or not the low price of spirits had increased the drunkenness and immorality of the people of Ireland; and that this was the case, he would venture to say, would be unanimously declared by those gentlemen who had resided during the last year in Ireland. The drunkenness had increased to such a degree, that no workman would work more than two days in the week. A man could get completely drunk for 4d. This was destructive of all good order, and the consequence would be, that a military force would be necessary to controul the excesses. The legislature could not be tied up by the licences to distillers. The people were their first care, and the revenue the second.Sir J. Newport
187bona fidel186 I conceive, Sir, that within the meaning of the Act of Union, this new tax, as it regards advertisements exceeding ten lines, is in direct violation of the law; because it is an additional duty, although it is declared, that no article in Ireland shall be made liable to any new or additional duty, rendering the whole amount of which would be thereafter payable, exceeding the amount of the duty payable in England on the
187bona fidel186Sir John Newport.
 replied, that the operations of the Bill would be such as to render it impossible for the Militia of the two countries to be placed, in that respect, in any situation different from that in which each stood in its respective country.Mr. Secretary Ryder
204203 rose to make his promised motion on the Exemption of the Funded Property of Foreigners from the Property Tax. When the Bill in which this ex-emption originated was first proposed, it was contended, that without the violation of a precise act of parliament, no duty could be imposed on Funded Property. It appeared to him that this argument proceeded from a misapprehension of those acts; for it never could have been
204203Mr. Howarth
 opposed the motion, not so much because the abolition of the exemption would be impolitic, as because it would be inconsistent with good faith. An act of parliament distinctly stated, that persons who lent money to the public should never have that money taxed. In conformity to this pledge, when the Property Tax was first imposed, it was not deducted from the dividends: but it was afterwards found convenient to lake it at the period of paying the dividends, rather than at any other time, and, in his opinion, with great propriety. But a foreigner who had property in the British funds stood in a very different situation. He was not taxable. If parliament taxed him, they must tax him as the holder of stock, which they were pledged not to tax at all.Mr. Baring
l205 did not think, if the Property Tax were a new measure, that it would be any breach of faith to tax the Funded Property of foreigners; but the question was, whether, having granted the exemption in the first instance, and having confirmed that grant after various discussions, it would be honourable for parliament to take advantage of that property which they were not sure would now be in the funds, but for the security from duty to which the holders of it conceived the British parliament was pledged. If the exemption were with-drawn, the period of withdrawing it must be fixed for a distant day. The state of the world and a variety of circumstances combined to render it necessary for the House to be very circumspect in such a proceeding. It was the great object of the enemy to embarrass our finances. Thus attacked, it was due to the British character to show that this country would not resort to any mean shifts—that it would
l205The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 gave notice that he would on an early day in the next session move for leave to bring in a Bill to declare vacant the Seats of all Members of Parliament who should be proclaimed Bankrupts, and should not pay their debts in full within six months after the date of the commission. [Hear, hear!]Mr. Thompson
 brought up the Militia Interchange Bill. On the question that it be read a first time;Mr. Secretary Ryder
201 lose, and apologised for so unusual a proceeding as that of opposing the first reading of a Bill; bur the principle of the present Bill was so hostile to every feeling of his mind, that his opposition to it could not be removed by any subsequent modification of the provisions of the Bill itself. He should even have opposed the motion for leave to bring in the Bill, had he not been kept from the House by the illness of a near relation. He objected to the Bill, first, because it involved in its consequences a direct breach of faith with the Milita, inasmuch as the Militia had enlisted for service confined to the soil [here Mr. Secretary Ryder intimated across the table, that with respect to those already in the Militia the interchange would be altogether optional.] This mode, though not so objectionable, was yet, in the opinion of the noble lord, one that ought not to be adopted. It would put the officers at the mercy of the
201Earl Temple
202 defended the Bill from the imputation of a breach of faith. That tie Militia was a constitutional force which ought to be revered, and to the feelings of which the greatest attention ought to be paid, he was most willing to admit; but he denied that it was independent of the crown, or that any officers of the Militia could be appointed without having the royal approbation. He denied also that the proposed measure would have the effect of disuniting the officers and the men. They were both put on the same footing. He did not believe that many Militia officers would be induced to quit the service in consequence of the proposed interchange; but he was prepared to say, that much as he should lament such an occurrence, it was a sacrifice which he for one would rather make, than abandon a measure which he was satisfied was
202Mr. Secretary Ryder
 in explanation of his statement respecting the independence of the Militia of the crown, said, that what he meant was, that the Militia was not officered by the crown. His Majesty had only the power of approval.Earl Temple,
 supported the Bill. He did not See how it would add to the power of the crown, except indeed, by making the army more formidable to the enemy. As for the recruiting for the regular army, the measure would much facilitate it; for men who had already passed over a sea, would be more likely than others to offer themselves for general service.Mr. Herbert
 strenuously opposed the Bill. If the Militia officers were told at once, "We have no further occasion for your services, and we dismiss you," they would have nothing to complain of; but they had a right to complain, when they were put in a situation which compelled them either to quit the service, or very probably to expose themselves to the resentment of the crown, for not carrying the projected measure into effect.Mr. Bastard
206 in reply, contended that foreigners were not lenders of money to the state, but purchasers of property in it. He should like to know why that property which Was taxed while in English hands, should be exempt from taxation when transferred to hands of a foreigner? No pledge to that effect had been given. When a foreigner came here, we protected him and his property too; and when he went hence, he left us to defend his properly in his absence. Was it not then reasonable, that he should pay a something for this protection? And as to what had been said of what might be advanced by our enemies on our taking such a step, could it be imagined that Buonaparté would calculate on our situation, from any regulation we might make which might add a few thousands to our annual revenues, when he knew that in the Peninsula we carried on the war at an
206Mr. Howarth
 thought, as the subject was postponed some time till the result of the inquiries making by the Lords was known, there was no reason for doing any thing now, as their report had not yet been published, and was expected shortly to appear. Under these circumstances he would move the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it might be advisable to suspend their decision, and would, if permitted, move an adjournment for a week.Mr. Lockhart
 spoke in favour of the motion of his hon. friend, which he thought from the knowledge he had of the circumstance, did not deserve to be met either with the previous question, or by the motions for an adjournment.Sir S. Romilly
 agreed in the amendment; and contended that they should wait the result of the inquiry which was known to be going forward in another place.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 spoke in favour of the amendment.Mr. Morris
 supported the motion.Mr. C. Adams
 spoke in favour of the original motion.Mr. H. Martin
 said he saw no reason why the House should refuse going into a Committee, the evil being admitted upon all hands.Mr. H. Martin
 thought that all opinions should be reserved until the House was in possession of the plan itself, and that there would be an impropriety in going into the consideration of the evil, without a view to some remedy.Mr. Stephen
 again called the attention of the House to the situation of Suitors in Chancery, He had brought forward their case twice already. In the first instance he motion had been negatived, on the ground of notice having been given of a motion on the subject elsewhere; and in the present session, when he renewed his motion, it was met by the previous question, and he was told, it would be proper to wait till the result of the proceedings in a Committee of the Lords was made known. He was now told, that a something might shortly be expected from them in the shape of a Report; this, however, he felt confident would not remedy the evil. He then proceeded to state the hardships experienced by Suitors in Chancery. He would propose that three commissioners or judges should be appointed to decide on their claims, which he thought ought not to be attached to the great seal. He concluded by moving, "That a Committee be appointed to enquire into the causes that retard the decision of suits in the high court of Chancery."Mr. M. A. Taylor
 was surprised that any gentlemen who knew the laws of the country, as the hon. baronet did, could think such an alteration as that proposed, could be made without a breach of the public faith.Mr. Pole Carew
200199 presented a Petition from Mr. St. John Mason, setting forth "That the petitioner was admitted a member of the Irish bar in Trinity Term 1803, and that in August thereof, the petitioner was, when on circuit, arrested at the distance of seventy miles from Dublin, to which he was directly conveyed, and committed to the prison of Kilmainham, where he was detained in close and rigid custody for more than two years; and that the instrument by virtue of which the petitioner had been 80 committed, was a state warrant, signed by Mr. Wickham, then chief secretary for Ireland under the earl of Hardwicke's administration, and by his excellency's command, containing a sweeping and general charge of treason; and that the said warrant did not specify that the said charge was founded on any information given upon oath; and that the petitioner and his friends have applied to the Irish government in every shape, both personally and otherwise, respecting its oppressive treatment of the petitioner, soliciting examination, and claiming to be informed of the cause of the petitioner's having been so deprived of his liberty for more than two years; but that all such applications have been wholly unavailing, in consequence, as the petitioner doth firmly but most respectfully assert to the House, of the absolute inability of that government to state with truth, any just cause whatsoever for such rigorous and cruel imprisonment of the petitioner; and that, as it is impossible for the petitioner to prove the negative of an undefined and unspecified charge, the petitioner can, in general terms only, most solemnly declare his innocence, to establish which, he had also during his imprisonment, when he was at the mercy of vile and corrupt informers, repeatedly, but in vain, demand-ed from the said government of Ireland, that right which the constitution gives to
200199Mr. Sheridan
 observed, particularly with respect to the appellant jurisdiction, that it would be necessary to clear off the present arrears, and nothing more; the evil was but temporary, and required but a temporary remedy.Mr. Adam
 had no doubt that lord Hardwicke had sufficient grounds for procuring the arrest of this gentleman. The information upon which he had been taken up was secret, and from his knowledge of that information, he had no hesitation in saying, that lord Hardwicke had not only grounds for what he did, but that he would have been guilty of a gross dereliction of his public duty, if he had not done so. He had no objection, however, to the Petition lying upon the table.Mr. W. Pole
 asked whether any clause was to be introduced into the Bill, protecting the catholic soldiers of the Irish Militia from being compelled to attend the established church, when in England?Sir J Newport
 contended that ministers ought to have some regard for what might be the feelings of the English, as well as for what might be the sentiments of foreigners. Our former forbearance was no reason why the exemption should be continued. We had granted them the indulgence a long while, and now the circumstances of the times rendered it necessary that it should cease. He thought we might call upon them without being guilty of any breach of faith. The parties themselves would, he thought, be the last to complain of such a measure; and he would ask if it was not due to the people of this country, to name some period, however distant, at which this distinction should be done away?Sir T. Turton
209208 presented a Petition from his Majesty's Catholic Subjects, whose names were thereunto subscribed, as well for themselves as others his Majesty's subjects professing the Catholic faith in Ireland, setting forth,209208Mr. Gruttan
 said he bad heard the right hon. gent, with some surprise. If there were any thing in the Petition which it might be necessary to obtain the consent of the King to, he, thought it unreasonable to ask the House to depart from its established practice, without first making an effort to obtain that consent. He would not say he had never heard of the case in question, but he had no recollection of the claims of the Petitioner having ever been brought before the administration of which he was a member, and therefore saw no reason for departing from the regular forms of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
222dsldslsldslslsllllsllllll221lllllllll220ll219lllllllllllll218dsldlllldslllll217llllllllsdsldsl216dsldsldsldslllldsldslsllslllslllslsldsldl215d.s.l.sdsllldsldslldsllllllslllllllll.lllllllllllll214lllllllllllllllllllllllll213lllllllllllllllllllll212lll49,555,379
49,555,379420,364Naval Stores
420,364Naval Stores12,481,300
12,481,3007,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents
7,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock
4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock8,000,000Vote of Credit
8,000,000Vote of Credit4,000,000Exchequer Bills
4,000,000Exchequer Bills300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery20,000,000War Taxes
20,000,000War Taxes5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1811
5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 18111,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810
1,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810£3,000,000Annul Duties
£3,000,000Annul DutiesWAYS AND MEANS, 1811.
WAYS AND MEANS, 1811.
49,555,379
49,555,379420,364Naval Stores
420,364Naval Stores12,481,300
12,481,3007,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents
7,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock
4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock8,000,000Vote of Credit
8,000,000Vote of Credit4,000,000Exchequer Bills
4,000,000Exchequer Bills300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery20,000,000War Taxes
20,000,000War Taxes5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1811
5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 18111,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810
1,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810£3,000,000Annul Duties
£3,000,000Annul DutiesWAYS AND MEANS, 1811.
WAYS AND MEANS, 1811.l6,569,000
6,569,000180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges
180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l
6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l49,452,869
49,452,8696,569,000Irish Proportion
6,569,000Irish Proportion56,021,869Total Supplies
56,021,869Total Supplies1,713,416
1,713,4161,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills113,416Loyalty loan
113,416Loyalty loanSEPARATE CHARGES.
SEPARATE CHARGES.54,308,453.Joint Charge
54,308,453.Joint Charge2,100,000Portugal
2,100,000Portugal400,000Sicily
400,000Sicily
6,569,000
6,569,000180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges
180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l
6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l49,452,869
49,452,8696,569,000Irish Proportion
6,569,000Irish Proportion56,021,869Total Supplies
56,021,869Total Supplies1,713,416
1,713,4161,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills113,416Loyalty loan
113,416Loyalty loanSEPARATE CHARGES.
SEPARATE CHARGES.54,308,453.Joint Charge
54,308,453.Joint Charge2,100,000Portugal
2,100,000Portugal400,000Sicily
400,000Sicily2113,200,000
3,200,000200,000Ireland
200,000Ireland3,000,000England
3,000,000EnglandVote of Credit
Vote of Credit2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.
2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l
lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l5,612,378Ordnance
5,612,378Ordnance21,269,941
21,269,941627,098Unprovided ditto last year
627,098Unprovided ditto last year3,200,000Extraordinaries
3,200,000Extraordinaries3,233,421Ditto Ireland
3,233,421Ditto Ireland£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)
£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)
£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)SUPPLIES, 1811.
SUPPLIES, 1811.
3,200,000
3,200,000200,000Ireland
200,000Ireland3,000,000England
3,000,000EnglandVote of Credit
Vote of Credit2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.
2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l
lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l5,612,378Ordnance
5,612,378Ordnance21,269,941
21,269,941627,098Unprovided ditto last year
627,098Unprovided ditto last year3,200,000Extraordinaries
3,200,000Extraordinaries3,233,421Ditto Ireland
3,233,421Ditto Ireland£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)
£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)
£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)SUPPLIES, 1811.
SUPPLIES, 1811. rose to open the Budget for the present year. He began by observing that having that morning concluded a contract, subject to the approbation of parliament, for the Loan for the service of the present year, on terms which he trusted, under all the circumstances of the case, the Committee would consider to be highly advantageous to the public, he should proceed to submit to them the details of that contract. But, before he did this, he conceived that it would be necessary for him to state, with as much clearness as he possibly could, the various sums which the House had already voted for the supply of the present year, and the Ways and Means to which in his judgment, they ought to resort for the purpose of meeting those sums. The supplies which had been voted were as follow:—
222dsldslsldslslsllllsllllll221lllllllll220ll219lllllllllllll218dsldlllldslllll217llllllllsdsldsl216dsldsldsldslllldsldslsllslllslllslsldsldl215d.s.l.sdsllldsldslldsllllllslllllllll.lllllllllllll214lllllllllllllllllllllllll213lllllllllllllllllllll212lll49,555,379
49,555,379420,364Naval Stores
420,364Naval Stores12,481,300
12,481,3007,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents
7,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock
4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock8,000,000Vote of Credit
8,000,000Vote of Credit4,000,000Exchequer Bills
4,000,000Exchequer Bills300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery20,000,000War Taxes
20,000,000War Taxes5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1811
5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 18111,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810
1,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810£3,000,000Annul Duties
£3,000,000Annul DutiesWAYS AND MEANS, 1811.
WAYS AND MEANS, 1811.
49,555,379
49,555,379420,364Naval Stores
420,364Naval Stores12,481,300
12,481,3007,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents
7,500,000in 3 and 4 per Cents4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock
4,981,300Loan in 6 per Cent Stock8,000,000Vote of Credit
8,000,000Vote of Credit4,000,000Exchequer Bills
4,000,000Exchequer Bills300,000Lottery
300,000Lottery20,000,000War Taxes
20,000,000War Taxes5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1811
5,000,000Surplus Consolidated Fund, 18111,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810
1,353,715Surplus Consolidated Fund, 1810£3,000,000Annul Duties
£3,000,000Annul DutiesWAYS AND MEANS, 1811.
WAYS AND MEANS, 1811.l6,569,000
6,569,000180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges
180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l
6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l49,452,869
49,452,8696,569,000Irish Proportion
6,569,000Irish Proportion56,021,869Total Supplies
56,021,869Total Supplies1,713,416
1,713,4161,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills113,416Loyalty loan
113,416Loyalty loanSEPARATE CHARGES.
SEPARATE CHARGES.54,308,453.Joint Charge
54,308,453.Joint Charge2,100,000Portugal
2,100,000Portugal400,000Sicily
400,000Sicily
6,569,000
6,569,000180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges
180,000Irish Civil List and other Charges6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l
6,389,000lIrish Proportion of 54,308,453l49,452,869
49,452,8696,569,000Irish Proportion
6,569,000Irish Proportion56,021,869Total Supplies
56,021,869Total Supplies1,713,416
1,713,4161,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,600,000Interest on Exchequer Bills113,416Loyalty loan
113,416Loyalty loanSEPARATE CHARGES.
SEPARATE CHARGES.54,308,453.Joint Charge
54,308,453.Joint Charge2,100,000Portugal
2,100,000Portugal400,000Sicily
400,000Sicily2113,200,000
3,200,000200,000Ireland
200,000Ireland3,000,000England
3,000,000EnglandVote of Credit
Vote of Credit2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.
2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l
lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l5,612,378Ordnance
5,612,378Ordnance21,269,941
21,269,941627,098Unprovided ditto last year
627,098Unprovided ditto last year3,200,000Extraordinaries
3,200,000Extraordinaries3,233,421Ditto Ireland
3,233,421Ditto Ireland£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)
£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)
£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)SUPPLIES, 1811.
SUPPLIES, 1811.
3,200,000
3,200,000200,000Ireland
200,000Ireland3,000,000England
3,000,000EnglandVote of Credit
Vote of Credit2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.
2,050,000Irish Permanent Grants.lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l
lMiscellaneous, including 400,000 l5,612,378Ordnance
5,612,378Ordnance21,269,941
21,269,941627,098Unprovided ditto last year
627,098Unprovided ditto last year3,200,000Extraordinaries
3,200,000Extraordinaries3,233,421Ditto Ireland
3,233,421Ditto Ireland£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)
£14, 209,422Army (including Barracks and Commissariat)£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)
£ 20,276 144Navy (exclusive of Ordnance Sea Service)SUPPLIES, 1811.
SUPPLIES, 1811.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
dd objected to the tax on cotton, as only likely to produce serious injury to the country. This was not perhaps the proper stage for entering into the discussion minutely, but he could not help observing that a duty on the raw material, which would make a difference of 4ddMr. Baring
 said, that the tax had been already proposed, and was in an advanced stage at the present moment. He denied that there would be any apprehension from it of injury to our manufactures. We had much cotton in our own colonies, and there had been of late years a greater fluctuation in the price of that article than the addition of this duty would effect, notwithstanding which, it had continued to prosper. There was, besides, an immediate quantity on our hands, and much would be obtained from different parts. As to the duty upon timber, he was prepared to expect the effect described by the hon. gentleman, and had provided against any failure by a larger estimate.The Chancellor of the Exchequcr
 said, that if any inconvenience was to occur which might prevent the importation of cotton wool from America, it might be brought from the East Indies to any amount.Mr. Rose
d223d stated, that the cotton which; came from India sold at 8d223dMr. Baring
lll225llllllldsdslll224lllllllllllllllll said, he should not occupy the time of the Committee to any great length, but would proceed directly to the subject of the Ways and Means for Ireland. The interest of the debt was 4,279,000lll225llllllldsdslll224lllllllllllllllllMr. Foster
229 did not consider Ireland to be in a state of bankruptcy, notwithstanding the opinion which some gentlemen entertained on the subject. There were circumstances which had arisen last year that led to the embarrassment of the finances of that country, and which would render it imprudent to burthen her with any great weight of additional taxation. The resources, however, were abundant, and would ultimately meet the exigencies of the year. Gentlemen had taken a wrong view of the revenue, occasioned, perhaps, by the apparent diminution in her exports; but that,
229The Chancellor of the Exchequer
232231230 was glad to hear the right hon. gent, speak so justly of the capability of Ireland, because it argued a better knowledge of that country than he (Mr. Hutchinson) had been in the habit of imputing to him. Ignorance of Ireland had been the cause of the greater part of her misfortunes, and he wished he could convince that right hon. gent, that the more he knew of the great natural means and resources of that much-gifted country, the better qualified he would be to guide to a prosperous issue the destinies of the empire at large. He had listened with great attention to the statement of the Irish Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he confessed he had heard from him for the first time a new principle of political economy. He had not known before that the exportation of cattle was a very conclusive criterion of national prosperity. His prejudices till now had taught him that a large cattle stock arose from a redundant pasture, and that where there was a far greater portion of pasture it was because the people of that country had not yet acquired either the skill or the means of knowing what to do with the soil. The financial state of Ireland was, and had been for a long period, so critical, that he thought the present subject ought to have been laid before them deliberately, and discussed with a patient investigation. Not that he had any intention of trespassing on the Committee, but he felt satisfied that nothing could tend more to the general interests than a general information upon the affairs of Ireland, and therefore it was he regretted that the two Chancellors of the Exchequer did not agree to postpone either budget to another evening. This would have appeared to him desirable, if it had no other effect than that of avoiding the appearance to Ireland of crouding the question of her interests with an unseemly hurry, upon a discussion that might have already exhausted the attention of the House. With respect to the speech of the Irish Chancellor, he
232231230Mr. Hutchinson
 distinctly denied that he had ever said that the exportation of cattle was a work of national prosperity. What did the hon. gentleman mean by saying, that if he (Mr. Foster) did his duty in a manly way, he would find another and a more productive tax? he was at a loss to understand the hon. gent. Why could he not speak out? Let him name this better tax, and if he thought it better than his own he would adopt it at once. Would the hon. gentleman name it? Then if he will not, said Mr. Foster, let the people of Ireland blame him and not me, for I have suggested the best tax my judgment could enable me to do, while here is an hon. gentleman who knows a better, and yet refuses to communicate it.Mr. Foster
233dsldslsldsldslds (of Dublin) could not see why the right hon. gent, should take upon himself to load his hon. friend with the duties of his office, while he kept all the emoluments to himself. His hon. friend in stating his objections to the measures of the right hon. gent, had done nothing more than he had a right to do. Nor could he believe that every member who in the conscientious discharge of his duty objected to any measure brought before the House, was thereby bound to substitute a better in its place. Mr. Shaw then proceeded to observe upon the items of the new taxes, and to compare the produce of the tax on wine, currants and raisins, &c. at stated periods. The total amount of the produce of the duties on wine was, in the year 1809, 365,276. 11233dsldslsldsldsldsMr. Shaw
228ll said, as reference had been made to a speech of his at the time of the Union, he would trouble the Committee with a few words. The right hon. baronet had represented him as having said that the Union would make a saving of 1,000,000228llLord Castlereagh
 was surprised to hear the right hon. baronet talk of the oppression of taxes, at a time when the proposal from England was, to take part of the debt upon herself. He maintained that the imports and exports had increased, and denied that Ireland was treated with indifference by the government. He defended his right hon. friend, for adverting to the advantages derived by Ireland from the government, and more particularly that of an enlarged system of public education.Mr. Fitzgerald
 observed, that he had never said the Union would destroy, but that it must check the prosperity of Ireland. Its increase in live stock and raw produce was no more than the necessary result of its natural fertility, which scarcely no government, however bad, could entirely stop, much less the present, which only stood in need of improvement. In support of his opinion, that the financial statements made that night and on recent occasions, were much too sanguine, he observed, that in 1792 Ireland exported more linen than she did at present, and that the rate of her increase was much greater during the ten years from 1782 to 1792, than in the eighteen years since.Mr. Grattan
 said he should abstain from entering into the subject, till Friday, the 31st instant, when he intended to move that the Petition be referred to a Committee of the whole House.—Ordered to lie on the table.Mr. Grattan
 said the case of this Petitioner was one of such, extreme hardship that it called loudly for redress. He had carried on business as a distiller at Ballinacloon, in the county of Westmeath in Ireland, where his whole property was destroyed by a party of militia acting under the orders of the government of Ireland, on the most unfounded suspicions. There were circumstances in this case which separated it from other applications for compensation from government, to which the consent of his Majesty's ministers was necessary. The petitoner stated that he was promised full compensation by lord Camden, formerly Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, which compensation was afterwards, for some reason or other, thought proper to be refused. He said he should proceed to read the Petition, after which it would be seen whether it ought to lie on the table.Mr. Sheridan
 said, after what had been stated by the right hon. gent, he, instead of moving that the petition be brought up, would put it into the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to-morrow.Mr. Sheridan
llll227l226 said, it had often fallen to his lot from time to time, to call the attention of the House to the growth of the Irish debt, and the inaccurate manner of arranging the rate of contribution at the time of the Union. He was willing to make every acknowledgment to the liberality of the United Parliament for its present inclination to assist Ireland to pay off a debt which it was impossible that she could pay herself. He admitted too, that Ireland had improved since the Union, but did not think it followed that she would not have improved with greater rapidity
llll227l226Sir John Newport
 objected to the Property Tax as unequal and unjust; but congratulated the right hon gentleman on the terms on which he had procured the loan.Sir T. Turton
scire facias257 said, that before he entered-into the subject, he must free himself from the imputation of having been always disinclined to the claims of Mr. Palmer. In
scire facias257Mr. Rose
260 in addition to the grounds of objection stated by the right hon. gent. opposite, felt an objection of an earlier date to this motion. If the resolution of 1808 decided this question, he would allow that they ought not now to be discussing it. But though an act blight have passed that House: yet, if thrown out by the Lords, it would be a fair subject of discussion, on being in another session brought in again. The objection he felt was as to the legality of the original contract under which Mr. Palmer claimed. He doubted whether any minister of the crown had the power to mortgage any part of the public revenue in such a way during the life of the person to whom he might think proper to grant it. The minister, no doubt, had the command of the public purse, but he should have the sanction of parliament for such a grant in reward even of merit. He denied that all the increase of the revenue of the post-office was to be attributed to Mr. Palmer's plan. If the House would but look to the number of canals and docks, and other public works, which had taken place all over the kingdom, they would perceive the necessary increase of that revenue from the correspondence that grew out of them. If even the agreement had been valid in the first Instance, which he denied: the conduct of Mr. Palmer had been such as to set it aside, though his
260Mr. C. W. Wynn,
265l said, he was obliged to risk even the good opinion of the hon. bart. opposite (Sir T. Turton), in defence of what he considered right. If he had to reproach himself with any thing, it would be with having allowed this question to come on as he had done; a concession, however, which he had made after the example of his predecessor. The conduct of Mr. Palmer, when in office, was such, that even had he held his place under a patent, he ought to have been deprived of it. When he first made his claims, in Mr. Pitt's life-time, and near the period of his bargain, they were rejected; and after that rejection, he lay quiet till after Mr. Pitt's death, a period of eight or nine years. With what face, then, could he now appear before the House, at a distance of time in which they must be much less competent to decide the justice of his demand, than they were at a time when they judged it ought to be rejected after full investigation and living evidence? He saw some gentlemen opposite very ardently supporting this claim, which, convinced in his conscience he was, had it been brought forward by government, they would without hesitation have pronounced to be one of the most flagrant and abominable jobs that ever originated with a minister. The case was this: Mr. Palmer had for his invention received an office, connected with the faithful discharge of which he was to have a pecuniary remuneration. He had by gross misconduct proved himself unworthy of his office, and of course his emolument ceased. Yet on his dismissal he had received 3,000265lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred with his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), and complained of the misrepresentation given to his argument respecting the offence that the proceeding would give to the Lords. The land and malt tax was understood as a matter of course, and was a subject on which no heat or difference of opinion had ever existed between the two Houses. He argued, that instances could be adduced in which the House had adopted a similar proceeding. They were calling, if this motion was carried, on the Prince Regent, to do that which he must know would not be agreeable to the other House.Mr. Secretary Ryder
scire faciasl having been so pointedly referred to, justified his conduct and the opinion he had uniformly given on the question. It was necessary that an agreement should be fulfilled on both, sides; and Mr. Palmer, he contended, had violated his engagement by the conduct of which he had been guilty. He thought this must be obvious to any man who had read the evidence. Both the two and a half percent, and the 1,500scire faciaslThe Solicitor General
dsll256 rose and said, that he should not think it necessary to go at any length into a statement of those claims, which had already been very folly discussed. In the year 1808, after a very ample discussion, the House had recognized the claims of Mr. Palmer (his father), to the per centage originally granted him on the improve-
dsll256Colonel Palmer
 admitted that Mr. Palmer had a right to the percentage, but condemned the mode in which it was proposed to allow his claim.Mr. Croker
264 was disposed to think that the claims of Mr. Palmer were founded on the strictest justice. He had, by the simplest proposition, contributed to the benefit of the stale; nevertheless, those who professed the most foolish and idle friendship for Mr. Pitt, because he was against those claims, forsooth, were afraid to give him his due. Why, Mr. Pitt was a man who always acted for the public good, poor man! and he died poor! The government had given Mr. Palmer a salary for life; but he had a family of children dependent on him for support, and for being set out in life, who expected when he died, property, or else they would not go off! and yet, when he died, he could not (having lived like a gentleman), leave them any thing when he was therefore gone, like the snuff of a candle, and nothing left, why then his family were to be deprived of support if the House refused them justice the best way would be to refer the claims to the decision of three masters in chancery, who would decide equitably and fairly. The government were pledged to Mr. Palmer, and the pledges of former ministers were as binding on the country as if sanctioned by Lords and Commons; besides, the policy was a narrow and a foolish one. By narrow views of policy we were plunged into the present war; for if the proposition made some years ago for employing light artillery had been attended to by ministers, we should not have been now engaged; and Dumourier would have been deprived of the means of annoying us, which means were afforded him in consequence of our refusal to employ light artillery. He condemned the refusal. Perhaps a friend of his, who had invented shells for annoying the enemy, and by which the late battles had been gained, (for they had dispersed the French armies in such line style,) might, if he asked for it, be refused remuneration. It was a niggardly policy
264Mr. Fuller
267 apologised for trespassing on the House at that late hour of the discussion, but from what had fallen from the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, he
267Mr. Jekyll
ll258 observed, that, if it were necessary to follow the right hon. gent. into his different objections to the motion, it would be easy to refute them; but there would be no use in dwelling upon such objections, as they had been already disposed of by the resolution of that House. Mr. Palmer, was, in his opinion, very hardly dealt with; and, as the House had solemnly recognized his claims, he called upon them to fulfil the public faith pledged by parliament. He could
ll258Mr. P. Moore
l said, that whenever the subject came before the House, he considered himself called on to state all the circum-stances with which he was acquainted. He did not think that the merits of the case were completely decided. In 1799, the House was of opinion that Mr. Palmer had not fulfilled his part of the contract. There was nothing more said of it till 1807, when Mr. Pitt was no more; it then appeared from the documents, that no contract had been made which did not include on the part of Mr. Palmer a fulfillment of official duties. These duties were not faithfully discharged. Mr. Palmer was suspended for disobeying the commands of the Post Master General. Did the hon. bart. call that a trifling misconduct, which went to retard the delivery of letters, and to throw the blame of it on the Post Master General? He defied the hon. bart. to prove from the evidence, that the 1,500lMr. Long
lll266 said, he was particularly desirous to make a few observations on what had fallen from the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, for a more unconstitutional doctrine he had never heard delivered in that House. He believed the right hon. gent. was the first Chancellor of the Exchequer who had ever thought it necessary to appeal to the House of Lords in a case which related to the disposal of the public money. If his doctrine were true, how came it that the land and malt tax was always voted, and the money advanced upon it, long before a Bill was brought in to that House; and where had been the instance in which the Lords had signified any opposition to it: If such a thing could be supposed, the Bank would act very idly in advancing the money before the Bill had passed both Houses. With respect to the argument of not renewing the application after the year 1797, during the life time of Mr. Pitt, he thought there was a very good reason to be given; Mr. Pitt was as persevering a man as Mr. Palmer, with rather more power at his command; but though Mr. Palmer did not actually bring forward his case before parliament, he never ceased to keep up his claim in the memory of his friends, and to apply to them for advice how to act; and they were all of opinion that to bring it forward again during Mr. Pitt's administration, would be at least fruitless. Mr. Sheridan said, he had it in his power to speak very decidedly on this subject, because the plan had first been shewn to him when Secretary to the Treasury during the administration of the duke of Portland; and when that administration went out, he told Mr. Pitt what had been the intention of that noble duke and lord John Cavendish; which was to give a salary of a certain sum for life, and a percentage. He knew before this the numerous cabals and plots that were hatched against Mr. Palmer by those who; were interested in opposing this reform; and he was convinced in his own mind, that Mr. Palmer would stand but a poor chance if he were not permitted to clear
lll266Mr. Sheridan
262 wished to state shortly his opinion upon Mr. Palmer's claim, which opinion remained precisely the same as when he last addressed the House upon the subject. He was confident that the arguments of the right hon. gent. opposite were not such as to persuade the House to depart from the decision which it had, come to three years ago, and which it had-been attempted to carry into effect last year. This decision had been founded, not upon compassion but upon the justice, of the case. He besought the House to consider what had been the merits of Mr.
262Mr. Whitbread
259 stated, that be had been Chairman of the Committee appointed to investigate this claim, and his opinion clearly was, that Mr. Palmer had no right to any compensation beyond what he had received. Gentlemen were disposed, to rate higher than it deserved the improvement introduced into the Post-office by Mr. Palmer, although he was ready to admit that Mr. Palmer's plan much good. The increase in the Post-office revenue, however, was not to be ascribed solely to this. The improvement of the
259Mr. W. Dundas
l263 conceived that the pension
l263Mr. Giddy
261 stated most decidedly, that new facts, leading to new inferences, had come out before the Committee in 1807. But the hon. and learned member who had just sat down had, he confessed, given quite a new view of the case. That hon. and learned member objected to the legality of the original agreement: but if a minister should dare to disavow such an agreement, that House, while the public was deriving the benefit of it, would not fail to give the individual compensation. The hon. and learned gent., too, had said that Mr. Palmer might have been indicted for a conspiracy for his conduct. Indicted? yes, upon garbled extracts; and yet he would defy the ingenuity of that hon. and learned gent., or any of the learned gentlemen opposite, to frame an indictment for a conspiracy that would apply to this case. A misdemeanor it might be construed to be, but no conspiracy. The question was, whether the Resolution of the House was not binding upon it to satisfy this claim. He contended it was, whilst it remained on the Journal"; though he was ready to admit that it might be discussed. It appeared throughout the whole of the correspondence, that Mr. Palmer's great complaint was, that he was constantly thwarted in carrying his plan into execution. He had undertaken to cleanse the Augean stable—that Herculean task, which, if he could have effected, would have put a stop to the practice" which prevailed in the department, and left the persons employed in it to be content with their bare salaries. It was they, then, who had combined against him. It was they who had been guilty of a conspiracy against him. Was it, then, for the House of Commons to refuse a just claim, because the viper who had been taken to Mr. Palmer's bosom had stung his benefactor? It was to be recollected that this viper had got his place. If Mr. Palmer had been guilty of indiscretion, he had been punished: he had been dismissed from his office: but
261Sir Thomas Turton
 had no doubt, that the invention was effectual to its object, though it was certainly a very simple one. But he did not think the simplicity of the invention a serious ground of objection. It was little else than the cork jacket in use long before; but Mr. Mallison certainly appeared to have the merit of applying it to a new purpose.Mr. Rose
 opposed it on the ground of the impolicy of imposing a tax upon the raw material, especially at a time when: the cotton manufacturers were starving. There was hardly an instance in which a tax had been laid on the raw material. He hoped this tax would not be persevered in, and inquired of the hon. gent. opposite, one of the members for the county of Lancaster, whether any application had been made to him on the subject.Sir Robert Peel
 observed, that he had made a communication on the subject to his constituents in Lancashire, whose interests were so nearly concerned, and he was anxious that the further proceedings upon it should be postponed for a few days, to give him an opportunity of receiving their sentiments.Colonel Stanley
275 declared, that if he thought the manufacturers would sustain so serious an injury as that supposed by the hon. baronet, he would be the last man in the House to press the adoption of the measure; but when it was considered that the duty
275Mr. Rose
276 opposed the Bill as pregnant with danger and mischief to the country. When gentlemen had screwed up their courage to bring forward the Budget, it was pleasant, no doubt, to be informed that the dreaded new taxes had already been imposed. But there was this inconvenience in departing from the old mode of proposing the taxes, if any new taxes were to be imposed at the time of bringing forward the Budget, that those concerned had not sufficient notice of these Bills. The consequence was, that most pernicious plans of taxation might be carried into effect, while those chiefly interested were ignorant that any such plans were in contemplation. He admitted that taxes had, unfortunately, at times been imposed on raw materials; but these were comparatively harmless, because the amount was trifling. Here, however, the tax amounted to about 33 per cent. If the state of Europe had not been very much changed, ministers would never have ventured to impose a tax on the raw material, as the manufactures of Germany, &c. would have, in that case, driven ours out of the market. But he reminded them that the cotton manufactory was a very growing one in the United States; that a great number of cotton mills had been established in the neighbourhood of Boston; and that the United States already exported a large quantity of cotton twist. The whole quantity of cotton wool imported was 1,449,000 bags, and of this only 40,000 were imported from our own colonies. The United States preferred our manufactures, which was not the case with the inhabitants of Brazil. He was fully aware that America was at present commercially hostile to us, and all he wished to impress was, the danger to ourselves of adopting measures which we could not afterwards counteract. The branch of manufactures affected by this tax was one of the very first importance, and if it should be injured, the subsequent lowering of the duty would not avail to remedy the evil. He thought the raw material a very injudicious object of taxation, and more particularly as it was di-
276Mr. Baring
ddsd expressed much surprise at the exaggerated statements of the hon. gentleman. He contended that the duties had not hitherto depressed the manufacture, and that the price of cotton wool, which had varied from 12ddsdThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated his conviction of the utility of the plan; a conviction founded on experiments made by himself.Captain Paget
 repeated that the new duty was not such as could possibly operate injuriously on the manufacturer. If the whole duty on the raw materials were taken off, he was persuaded that not an additional yard of our manufacture would be imported into any part of the world. He had no objection, however, to postpone the Committee on the Bill until tomorrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 pressed the necessity of giving time for consideration.Sir R. Peel
278 contended that he had given sufficient notice of the introduction of this measure. America had over and over again imposed duties on British manufactures. This country had shown great forbearance in that respect; and the present
278Mr. Rose
 stated the great merit of the invention to be, that when a sailor had these corks attached to him, he was not encumbered in such a way as to prevent him from doing any duty whatever.Mr. C. Adams
 would not oppose the appointment of a Committee, if the House thought proper to agree to the motion; but he would propose the names of some gentlemen connected with the Admiralty. This was in truth no invention at all. It was exactly what they had all often swam upon—two pieces of cork, with the addition indeed of a covering of green baize, and a strap instead of a rope. Of the 87 inventions presented to the Admiralty Board within these few years, this was the worst and the most simple. Colonel Hanger had presented a very ingenious one. The Admiralty stated to him, that his invention was completely effectual for keeping a man afloat; but it was so cumbersome that he could do nothing else with it. He adverted to the furious attack made on the Admiralty Board by Mr. Mallison for their illegal and hellish opposition to his plan; and concluded by stating, that it was too trifling for any gentleman to waste his time upon.Mr. Croker
272 presented a Petition from the freeholders and inhabitants of the county of Tipperary, comprising persons professing various religious persuasions, setting forth,272Mr. Montagu Mathew
273 rose to call the attention of the House to the Petition of Mr. Mallison, presented by him yesterday, praying for an inquiry into the merits of an invention
273Mr. Whitbread
274 in reply to Mr. Croker, observed, that Mr. Hogarth, the inimitable caricaturist, had ridiculed the extravagant taste for projects, by representing a ponderous
274Mr. Whitbread,
277 censured government for not having taken the opinion of the hon. baronet and others who were qualified to judge on the subject, before they introduced the present measure. There was a Petition on the table from the cotton manufacturers, declaring that they were in a state of starvation. To these petitioners this new duty on the raw material was a direct affront. He reprobated the mode in which such taxes had been for five and twenty years introduced, from time to time, by the right hon. gent. opposite. (Mr. Rose), under the specious name of regulations. These regulations, however, always failed of success, although the commercial regulations of the enemy com-
277Mr. Whitbread
 represented the childishness of any delay which would be insufficient for the attainment of the wished for object. The right hon. gent., after speaking in such high terms, the other day, of the trade and revenues of the country, now confessed that America and the ports of the continent were so hermetically sealed against our trade, that even were all the duties taken off cotton wool, not a yard more would be sold than at present. Things could not continue long thus. Some convulsion must soon happen, whether triumphant to this country or to the enemy he would not anticipate; but if all the ports of the continent were open to British manufactures, still it would be found that, owing to our injudicious measures, America was able to supply herself.Mr. Whitbread
 presented a Petition from the Royal Canal Company of Ireland, praying for relief from their embarrassments, in any manner which the House pleased to adopt.Mr. Foster
 signified the assent of his royal highness the Prince Regent.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 observed, he merely would move that the Petition should lie on the table, without pledgnig himself as to his future conduct.Mr. Foster
prima facie289 prefaced his motion upon the present state of the Theatres in the Metropolis with a few observations, which were scarcely audible in the gallery. He stated that before they proceeded to consider nest session the propriety of erecting an additional Theatre, it was, he thought, desirable that they should in the interim endeavour to ascertain the existing state of the drama, as well as the privileges exercised by the present theatres, to the monopoly of exclusive departments in the drama. He did not mean at present to go into any sort of detailed reasoning upon the question. The abstract principle upon which his motion and all similar applications, were grounded, was this simple proposi-
prima facie289Mr. Taylor
 after a few words, consented to withdraw the motion.Mr. Taylor,
l opposed the Bill, which, he contended, the present situation of the Company's affairs did not warrant, there being at present a balance of 3,000,000lLord Folkestone
 moved the second reading of the Militia Interchange Bill. While on his legs he thought it right to apprise the House of certain additional clauses, which it was his intention to move in the Committee. These he then communicated in substance to the House, and at the same time gave notice of certain regulations with respect to the pay of the soldiers, which he had it in contemplation to move in the Committee of Supply.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 thought the effect of the measure would be to throw the landed interest out of the service, and to create dissensions among the soldiers. He had been once to Ireland; he then went of his own free will; but if this Bill were passed he would not go again. He would be most happy to promote the interests of Ireland; but he did not conceive he should do this by giving his support to the proposed arrangement; and, thinking as he did, that it would be likely to give a death blow to that constitutional force, which had rendered such essential service to the country, he should conclude by moving as an amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time on that day three months."Colonel Stanley
 thought the motion the most important that had been made since the Union, and could not but think the Union incomplete till it was adopted. The security it would afford against invasion was one great object, but that was second in importance to another consideration. The immense advantages likely to result from its uniting all classes of both countries, was an object more desirable, and one which, as it was certain of being attained, he regarded as that which most strongly recommended the adoption of the measure.Lord Palmerston
 objected to the present Bill, as giving to his Majesty the right of sending a whole regiment over to Ireland without any officer whatever above a Serjeant; in which case, he asked, could it any longer be considered as a regiment of militia? If this species of force was only to retain the name, and to lose the essence, all the advantages resulting from it must fall to the ground. The alternative was by this put to every officer in the militia, either to go to Ireland when called on, or to resign. He must protest against this measure as being the last step in the conversion of the militia force of the country into one of a very different description. He hoped the right hon. Secretary of State would not hurry the Bill through the House, and that he would not move for its being committed before that day se'nnight, in order that the officers of the Militia might have time to peruse the Bill.Mr. C. W. Wynn
295 expected no advantage would be found to result from its being so long postponed. He thought the House would be as well prepared to decide on the merits of the case by Monday, as by the time proposed. The more it was canvassed and considered, the more he was confident, it would be approved. It might be satisfactory to the House to know that he had in his possession offers from
295Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said, whether it was derived from privilege, from indulgence, or from right, they would be the same as in Ireland.Mr. Secretary Ryder
296 contended that the adoption of the measure would be a breach of faith. If the Militia had answered the end for which it was formed, it would now be better to put an end to it than to make the proposed arrangement. For his part, he would rather make a campaign or two in Spain or Portugal, than go to Ireland;
296Colonel Bastard
 inquired whether the Petition, being an application for pecuniary relief, came recommended in the usual manner?The Speaker
 moved the second reading of the East India Bonds Bill.Mr. R. Dundas
292ll said the hon. gent. (Mr. Creevey) had wandered quite away from the subject of debate. The question was, whether the Company were or were not to be allowed to raise two millions on their own credit, not to increase their present debt, but by borrowing money in England, to enable them to pay off their debt in India. Bills of exchange had been drawn on the Directors from India, for which it was necessary that funds should be provided. The hon. gent. asked for more explanation, but what more explanation was in reality wanted? It was merely a transfer of a sum from creditors, to whom they were paying eight and ten per cent. to other creditors in this country at 5 percent. With respect to the Committee, they had reported fully on the accounts up to 1809, and the moment the accounts for the ensuing years could be got ready, they would be submitted to the House. He spoke of the absurdity of the hon. gentleman's treating the affairs of a Company in possession of the revenues of an immense empire, as he would treat the affairs of a private merchant, maintaining that if they could not instantly pay off their debt, they were to be considered as bankrupt. Could Great Britain pay off her debt instantly, and was Great Britain to be considered, therefore, bankrupt? But had the Company means to set against their debt." He maintained they had, and on grounds fully as authentic as any thing which he believed the hon. gent. could produce. Last year, for in-stance, there was an estimated deficit; but in place of that, there was a surplus of 3 to 400,000292llMr. R. Dundas
 objected to the Bill, in as far as it would go still farther to prevent qualified persons from accepting of commissions in the Militia. A gradual decrease in qualified officers had been going on year after year, and the present Bill would go to sweep off all those below the rank of field officers. Formerly balloted men bore a great proportion to substitutes in the militia, now they were not as one to ten. If we were neither to have officers nor men, in this our constitutional force, in the old and constitutional form, it would be better at once to annihilate it entirely. He begged to ask one question of the right honourable Secretary; the officers in the militia of this country were subject to the Income Tax; in Ireland there was no such tax. Now, he wished to be informed if the officers of the Irish Militia, who came to serve in this country, were to be exempted from this tax; or if they were to come and serve here with 10 per cent, off their income?Lord A. Hamilton
 thought the length of the war had already rendered the militia service irksome, but the present measure would make it disgusting. He did not know if ministers were prepared to do away qualifications entirely, but he was satisfied that the present measure would go far to render that necessary.Lord George Cavendish
 thought that here a temporary evil was to be endured when likely to produce a permanent good.Col. Duckett
 was of opinion that the Union with Ireland, of which he thought highly, should be drawn closer and closer by every tie of amity, affection and community of intercourse. The present measure, on this feeling, had his entire concurrence, he felt, and he trusted every other Militia officer would feel, that, to the attainment of so grand a national object, all personal, and therefore, inferior, objects of convenience ought to yield. There should, in his opinion, be no more distinction between England and Ireland than between Lincoln and York.Colonel Ellison
ll288 presented to the House, "an Account of the several sums of money received from the Army Prize Agents by the deputy treasurer of Chelsea hospital, under the authority of the acts of the 45th and 49th of his present Majesty, specifying the dates of the capture, the dates of the general distribution to the captors, and when paid into Chelsea hospital, with the appropriation of the several sums, to the 24th of March 1811," He then moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the 49th of his Majesty, which
ll288Mr. Long
294 was convinced the effect of the measure would be to take all country gentlemen out of the militia. He should not, however, oppose the Bill in its second reading; but if clauses were not introduced in the Committee, protecting the Irish Catholic soldier in the exercise of his religion in this country, and also protecting him in the free exercise of his religion as he would be protected in Ireland,
294Mr. Whitbread
 inquired whether they were to be at liberty in religious affairs, from privilege, or from indulgence, as there was a material difference between privilege to which they had a right, and indulgence bestowed at pleasure?Mr. Whitbread
290 was greatly surprised that the hon. member should make such a motion after what had so lately passed, or that he could find any one to second his motion. Now, that the accounts of Drury-lane theatre were nearly disentangled, the proprietors satisfied, and a new scheme for re-building it in full progress, it was strange that an hon. member should think he had found out the proper time for throwing the whole into confusion. He was quite sure the hon. member did not mean to exhibit any hostility to the interests of the sufferers at Drury-lane, but he must have been conscious that the appointment of a committee to inquire into the abstract merits of any question touching the monopoly, must tend to throw cold water upon the present public inclination to the undertaking. If it was objected that there were not theatres enough, why not wait for the re-building of Drury-lane, and then ascertain whether more were wanted? A misconception had gone abroad relative to the nature of the Drury-lane patent. So well was parliament convinced of its solidity, that the subscribers to the rebuilding were, by the act of parliament,
290Mr. Whitbread
291 observed, it was singular enough that the company, when they had a revenue of seven millions, should have a surplus of one million, while now that they have a revenue of fifteen millions, they have no surplus. One was at a loss to conceive that with so great an increase of revenue, the bond debt of the company should go on increasing as it did. The public ought to be put in possession of a state of the company's affairs, as was done in 1793. The celebrated Committee up stairs, which had now sat for four years, and which during the present session had not in fact been occupied altogether more than four hours, or six at the utmost, seemed to have avoided all trouble of discussion of the company's affairs. Before such a measure as the present was allowed to pass, the public ought to be put in possession of the true state of the company's affairs; and he pledged himself to move Resolutions of fact on that subject in a subsequent stage of the Bill, and to prove that the company were actually six millions worse than nothing. In order to give time for the production of the information on which alone
291Mr. Creevey
 said he should not bring forward his motion till the Report of the right hon. gent., the Chairman of the Committee, was discussed.Mr. Creevey
 said, that whenever any plan was proposed for the accommodation of the East India Company, there was al-ways to be found a set of gentlemen on the other side of the House ranged in op-position against it. The present Bill had no other object than to enable the East India Company to raise money on their own credit in the way most convenient to them.Mr. Wallace
293 could not see the necessity of the measure, and he must learn its wisdom from somebody else. He thought the Bill would be apt to introduce an un-soldierly spirit into the Militia. An option of going was to be given as he understood the Bill: but this very option was the worst form of making the service of the country acceptable. The officers in some regiments would choose to go to Ireland; in others the men would choose it; and a disagreement would arise between the men and their officers. The spirit of canvassing would be excited among the soldiers: there would be an Irish and an English
293Mr. Elliot
287sllll286ldslllll285dsl284dsld.sl283sld.sldsldsl282ldsld.slllll281llll280l279l slated, that documents would be presented to the House, which would afford every information on the subject, particularly the Report of the Commissioners of Inland Navigation in Ire land, to whom the inspection of the affair" of the company had been referred.287sllll286ldslllll285dsl284dsld.sl283sld.sldsldsl282ldsld.slllll281llll280l279lMr. W. Pole
 intended giving the Bill his support, if a provision were made in it for securing the Catholic soldier the free enjoyment of his religion. If no such provision were made, he should feel it his duty to oppose the measure.Mr. Parnell
 expressed his determination to oppose the prayer of the Petition, on account of the conduct of the company, who had squandered their money unnecessarily.Sir J. Newport
 said he had made inquiries respecting the probable effect of the Bill, in consequence of the apprehension which had been expressed: and the result of them was that no inconvenience appeared likely to arise that could justify the alarm spread abroad. It was, however, his intention, as such a feeling was excited, and as the lower classes could not be convinced how groundless were their fears, to move, That the order for the committal of the Bill should be postponed to that day three months.Mr. Rose
306, though he did not agree
306Sir R. Peel
307 felt himself under the necessity of saying a few words in support of what had fallen from his right hon. friend. With him, he thought the alarm which had been spread abroad, had been so spread without sufficient grounds for it being proved to exist. The hon. gent. who spoke last had expressed himself to be surprised and not surprised, so often, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not know whether he at last wished to be understood
307The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that all were agreed as to the propriety of remunerating the clerks, and those who knew most of the subject recommended an additional remuneration to the person at the head of the Board of Control; it was with this view, and not to serve any personal purpose, that his right hon. friend had proposed the Bill. The consideration of the Company's Charter would bring the subject under the notice of parliament again, and he was persuaded it would be then found that the great increase of business justified and required the addition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that the situation of Ireland was such, that instead of an additional duty on tobacco, a modification of the property tax would be more desirable. The finances of that kingdom were so low, that it was impossible she could support herself, and was becoming a burthen on this country, in consequence of the Union.Mr. Bankes
 was concerned to hear the hon. gentleman charge the sister kingdom with being a burthen on England, and hoped, that whatever might be done to relieve her from her present situation, at least the property tax would not be resorted to; that was a tax which the people could ill bear; it was a tax they much dreaded. He lamented that other gentle-men had not considered the situation of Ireland as well as the hon. gentleman.Mr. M Naughten
, with considerable warmth and agitation of mind, noticed the observations of the hon. gentleman, and denied that Ireland was a burthen on England. If she was indebted to England for a temporary loan, she would, in honour, discharge it. Did she, he would ask the hon. gentleman, call for the Union? Was it not forced upon her? He had voted against the measure; but the kingdoms being now united, it was better to conciliate all differences. The hon. gentleman ought, in justice, to recant the expressions.Mr. Foster
 was not astonished that the hon. members had heard with surprise and indignation the situation of Ireland. It was true that she could not support herself; for was not she, at this moment, receiving pecuniary assistance, by way of loan, from this country? He did not mean to say that it was improper to extend that assistance. If the situation of Ireland had been examined into, this angry debate might have been avoided. He could not consent to recant what he had said. It was the effect of an anxious desire for the happiness of Ireland, and, therefore, he could brook the language of the honourable gentleman, who desired him not to interfere with that kingdom.—(Mr. M'Naughten here observed that he had not used that expression.)—He would appeal to them around him whether the honourable gentleman had not so said; but, however, he still thought the Property Tax would he the best mode of providing for the revenue, instead of the Tobacco Duty, as that would exonerate the poorer classes.Mr. Bankes
 denied that he was angry with the hon. gentleman who had given an Irish recommendation with respect to the taxes, by stating that a modification of the Property Tax would be desirable for Ireland. There was no tax on Property in Ireland. Ireland, instead of being averse to, would be very much obliged by the hon. gentleman's interference in her affairs, because whatever affected her must equally affect England.Mr. M'Naughten
 wished for more time, and condemned the duty as unproductive.Mr. Hutchinson
 said he was willing to place the Irish newspapers on the same footing as the English, if the right hon. baronet desired it; but he suspected, if so, that the right hon. baronet would not be a favourite with the Irish printers. He must say, that it was rather ridiculous in some gentlemen to talk of the duty on advertisements as being detrimental to the liberty of the press, when the two subjects were in nowise connected. The worthy baronet seemed to think that he had violated the act of union by laying on some duties in Ireland higher than in England. The worthy baronet when in office did the same thing. He may shake his head, but he did. "Yes, (said Mr. F.) you laid a tax upon jaunting cars. What's the reason you don't hold up your head and answer me? You laid a tax upon jaunting cars, and you laid a tax upon licences for public houses. I do not blame you, I did the same thing. (A laugh.) It is not fair, however, that you should accuse me of that as a fault, in the commission of which you must have thought yourself perfectly justifiable."Mr. Foster
315 justified the opinions of his right hon. friend with respect to the duty. The assimilation to the English duty would raise more money, and, as a matter of revenue, no doubt if the right hon. baronet was sincere, his right hon. friend would consent to repeal the present duty. He denied that it was a violation of the act of Union, as had been urged. Referring to what had been said by Mr. Bankes, he must declare that Ireland was no burden on England; so far from it, she was the great strength of the empire in assisting to combat the enemy, both by sea and land. The loan which had just been granted, was given for the advantage of the whole empire. To con-tribute to the wants of such a friend was serving this country. To say, that such a sum as four millions and a half taken from the Exchequer in aid of Ireland was entailing a burthen on England, or was detracting from that dignity and station in the empire which Ireland ought and did possess, was holding language which should not be held out. The loan was not an act of generosity and relief, but an act of liberality and justice, as well to England as to Ireland, for she was the main limb of the empire. The right hon. gentleman had talked of the liberty of the press, of informations filed by the Attorney General, of sending persons to distant prisons, of the unconstitutional caprice of the judges, &c.; but the right hon. gentleman should weigh well the use of words before he uttered them.
315The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the motion. He thought the hon. gent. who had observed that Ireland was a burden to this country, rather deserved the thanks than the reprobation of the gentlemen of that country, as he had shewn the necessity of some remedy being adopted for the evil. It must be acknowledged that that country was in difficulty, which could not pay the interest of its own debt, but must accept 4½ millions for its service. In this instance, however, the right hon. gent. was imposing an unjust tax, as it was contrary to the spirit of the union; and although it might not tend to destroy the liberty of the press, yet it enabled government to shewn an unjust partiality, and to create dissatisfaction in that country, which they ought to use every exertion to conciliate.Mr. Ponsonby
 said he should vote against the motion.Colonel Barry
 having already troubled the House on this subject, begged to assure them that at this late hour he would not trespass on their patience more than to answer one or two observations that fell from the right hon. gent. opposite. He was sorry the right hon. gent. (Mr. Foster) had so short a memory; for he appealed to every gentleman who was present at the opening of the Irish Budget last year, whether the right hon. gentleman did not distinctly say, that as the price of the Irish newspapers was just two thirds of the English, therefore no objection could be made to raising the tax on advertisements to the same ratio, that is, to two thirds the English tax. Was this the case or not? It had been said that if the tax was repealed another must be substituted in its place. This was a very erroneous apprehension, because, as it was stated in the petition which he had the honour to present from the proprietors of Irish newspapers, the tax was as unproductive as it was oppressive. Therefore, placing it upon its former footing would occasion no defalcation of revenue. It had been most whimsically remarked by the right hon. gentleman, that the tax being unproductive was occasioned by the obstinacy of the proprietors of the news-papers who set themselves against it. But could it be for a moment supposed that they would be such enemies to their own interests as to refuse the insertion of advertisements, upon which their profits al-most entirely depended?—Mr. Shaw made use of several other arguments to demon-strate the injustice and the impolicy of the tax, and contended, that it ought not, at all events, in any case to exceed two-thirds of the duty paid in England.Mr. Shaw
ll309l thought the hon. admiral completely misconceived the facts of the case: at the present moment there was an annual deficiency of 1,300ll309lMr. R. Dundas
"Carlton House, 24th May 1811.""It must at all times be my most earnest desire to attend to the wishes of the House of Commons, and I shall be ready to give effect to them in this instance whenever the means shall have been provided by parliament."P. R"George P. Rdsl reported to the House, that their Address of Tuesday last, humbly to beseech his royal highness the Prince Regent to advance to John Palmer, esq. the sum of 54,702"Carlton House, 24th May 1811.""It must at all times be my most earnest desire to attend to the wishes of the House of Commons, and I shall be ready to give effect to them in this instance whenever the means shall have been provided by parliament."P. R"George P. RdslLord John Thynne
 argued against the injustice shewn by ministers, in bringing forward a measure which was to improve the condition of the clerks in the India House, while they refused to raise the pay of the army, who were deprived of those domestic comforts which the former possessed. The stipend of every clerk was raised, but there had been no increase in the pay of the army since the reign of Charles 2, with the exception of something to the subalterns of the line and cavalry, which did not amount to more than the property tax. In the face of the House and the country, and in the name of the army, he must appeal against this injustice.General Tarleton
308, in answer to a question put on a former night by an hon. gent. then present (Mr. Whitbread), begged leave to state the nature of the fund newly created by fines for the discharge of seamen. According to the old arrangement, when a seaman was permitted to procure a substitute in order to quit the service himself, his only course was to apply to persons called Crimps, who charged at the rate of 100 guineas for an able-bodied seaman, and 50 guineas for a landsman, and they insisted that the entire sum should be deposited in the first instance, often before they had obtained the substitute themselves. The consequence of this was, that months, and even years elapsed, before the substitute was found; and the individual, who paid his money, had often sailed to a foreign station, or, perhaps, died, before the object was accomplished, losing, to his distressed
308Mr. Croker
 said he should oppose the Bill.Mr. P. Moore
Ex-officio in explanation said, that when punishment arose from caprice, the law could not justify it, and therefore he should take this opportunity of giving notice, that he would next session move for the repeal of that law which related to Ex-officioMr. Sheridan
Ex-officio314313 I really, Sir, cannot help remarking the surprising change of temper which has so suddenly manifested itself in the right hon. gentleman. A few minutes ago, when the hon. gentleman
Ex-officio314313Mr. Sheridan.
 supported the Bill, and thought, that when the salaries of all other clerks were raised, those belonging to the India Board should not form a solitary exception, and be driven down in society, by being worse off than others in the same rank of life.Mr. Robert Thornton
 declared himself perfectly satisfied with the explanation, and was confident the public would be perfectly satisfied also.Mr. Whitbread
 could not divest his mind of the idea that the right hon. gent. had had rather a bitter pill to swallow; but ha admitted that he had swallowed it with the best possible grace. The motion of the right hon. gent. would have filled him with the greatest surprise, if the matter had not been broke to him by an intimation which had been given since he entered the House. It was rather surprising that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who the day before yesterday was so confident no inconvenience could result from the measure that he would hardly grant eight-and-forty hours for the further consideration of the subject, and to give time for the sentiments of the manufacturers to be known, should so soon make up his mind to give up the measure altogether. The late Mr. Pitt used to extol every tax he proposed, as being the best that could be made, and as being such that no possible inconvenience could thence be expected to arise. It should seem that the right hon. gent. had been ambitious of imitating him on the present occasion in a minor degree. He had set out with saying that it was impossible for any evil to follow its adoption, but, on the contrary, much good was to be expected from it, and ended by giving it up. He was happy to find it was so given up, as under the circumstances of the case, it was impossible to suppose any speech of his could have inflamed the manufacturers, so as to render it expedient on that account. Though surprised, he was pleased at the change, which, however it was to be accounted for, he could not receive without feeling disposed to throw some discredit on the premises from which this conclusion was stated to be drawn.Mr. Whitbread
 did not object to the increase of the salaries of the clerks; but he thought there were funds sufficient for that purpose without any additional vote.Mr. Creevey
 maintained the expediency of granting to the full extent provided far in the Bill.Mr. Wallace
 opposed the Speaker's leaving the chair. He stated some objections to the Bill, and among others, insisted strongly upon the impropriety of placing the clerks of the Board of Control upon a better footing than the clerks of the Navy Office, by increasing their salaries. If such a principle were once recognized by parliament, there could be no knowing where it would stop. Every other department under government might feel itself entitled to an increase; nor did he see how the subalterns of the army and navy could be refused, after such a proceeding.Sir Charles Pole
317l316 said that he could not admit the construction of the act of union that had been given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If those parts of the 7th article which pointed out the application of the revenues of Ireland, and the manner in which the proportions of contribution were to be provided were taken together, it appeared to him that no article could be taxed higher in Ireland than it was in England. Taxation for the purpose of providing for the proportion of contribution being necessarily by that article a proceeding following taxation for providing for the interest of the debt, which formed a separate charge, the true purport of the clause directing, that no article should be taxed higher in Ireland than in England for the purpose of providing the proportion, was to prevent any article from being so taxed for any purpose whatever. Whatever the tax on any article might be for the purpose of defraying the
317l316Mr. Parnell
310 never heard a more ill-timed or ill considered speech than that just delivered by the gallant general. It was a most invidious comparison to hold out that the House was unjust to the army and navy, because it paid persons in inferior situations. What would be said to him, if, as a civil man, he acted similarly, if an addition was proposed to the pay of the army, and if he upheld the clerks to the officers of the army, who had much higher and nobler objects in view than mere pecuniary compensation? Good God! exclaimed the right hon. baronet, that a general officer should bring forward such a comparison, which was only worthy of some obscure alley in the city! The question was simply this, whether these persons were to be kept in that rank of life, which others in similar situations held? He could affirm, that the gentlemen belonging to the Board of Controul,
310Sir John Anstruther
305304 presented a Petition from the Merchants and traders of the city of Waterford; setting forth,305304Sir John Newport
ll312, in pursuance of notice, entered into a statement of the nature of the Duty upon Advertisements in Ireland, and a comparison thereof with that of England. He complained
ll312Sir John Newport
 said, he had no objection to accede to the present motion, nor to the bringing forward of that of which the hon. gent. had given" notice, but he would say now, as he would maintain, when the subject was properly before the House, that there was no insult contained in the Answer, nor any thing unbecoming the high personage from whom it came, or the ministers who advised it. He should do no more at present than shew his readiness to take up the challenge of the hon. gent. And he was convinced, that when the discussion should take place, the House would be satisfied that the censure of the hon. gent. upon the proceeding was unfounded and misapplied.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that if there was any instance on the Journals of a similar answer to an Address of that House, the minister who advised it might perhaps be justified, but he defied them to produce any such instance. In the present instance the privileges of the House were attacked. He would contend it was the case; for the power of the House to make good its engagement, was either doubted or resisted by the minister. He was sorry that his honourable friend had named so distant a day; because the duty of a member of parliament was paramount to all others; and in cases such as the present, he thought it would become them to imitate the conduct of their ancestors, by postponing every other business or consideration to a question of privilege. He was more surprised at this proceeding than at any which had taken place since he had a seat in parliament. As to the measure against which it was directed, it was one, however objectionable in principle, sanctioned by the practice of the House upon other occasions. In the case of Mr. Webber, the House injudiciously, he thought, had exercised the privilege of Address; and though his opinion was not altered with regard to the case of Mr. Palmer, or the general inexpediency of adopting the principle of Address upon such occasion, yet, when it was done, it must be carried into effect, and was entitled to all the weight and authority that parliament could give to its proceedings. The House of Commons might as well be required to wait the opinion of they Lords upon every public monument, yet monuments were voted without that sanction. The debts of Mr. Pitt were paid without any such postponement; and the salaries of the Judges were increased without waiting for the opinion of the Lords. For these reasons, he was anxious that the question should be brought forward, as its importance entitled it to an early and full discussion.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said, that through the whole of his observations, the hon. gent. was pleased to run away with the assumption that he intended to question the privileges of that House. Nothing could be more unjust than such an assumption. On the contrary, he should contend, that the Address alluded to contained nothing which could, in the remotest degree, affect those privileges, or question the authority of parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
321 rose to call the attention of the House to the subject of Military Flogging. It was a subject which had long and deeply occupied his mind, and he would have brought forward some motion on the subject before, but he had been advised to defer it, as the general feeling of the government appeared to be adverse to this odious, disgraceful and abominable practice, and the clause which had been introduced this session into the Mutiny act, shewed, at least, a disposition to counteract the evil; and he had been willing to receive it as an earnest of some better plan of military discipline than that which now existed. However, he had received information of the continuance of this practice, and in a service where such an ignominious and cruel punishment could least be justified—in the case of a person compelled to serve in the Local Militia, which obliged him, however reluctantly, to bring before the House some motion, which might lead to a more certain remedy for so great an evil. The circumstances with which he had been made acquainted, by letter, were these: The Liverpool regiment of Local Militia, commanded by colonel Earle, had been marched from that city to Ormskirk, on the 22d of April, and the quality of the bread was a subject of complaint among the men, many of whom had been used to a comfortable mode of living. However, the quality of the next rations of bread was not better, and after some representations on the subject, and the examination of the bread by the colonel, who declared it to be good, the major part of the men consented to take it, but nineteen of them refused, who were confined on the 27th of April. One of them, Thomas Taylor, composed a song, which contained allusions to the bad quality of the bread, (here the hon. baronet read a part of the song) copies of which were
321Sir Francis Burdett
 expressed a wish that the hon. baronet would defer his motion until some inquiry could be made into the propriety of complying with it, as he believed it was contrary to the general principle, and was desirous that some general officers might be consulted upon it. As next week was full, and Monday and Tuesday in the following week were holidays, perhaps the hon. baronet would consent to defer his motion till Wednesday se'nnight.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 signified his concurrence in the proposed adjournment of the question.Sir F. Burdett
 thought that it would be better to delay it, till a letter could be received from the district.General Tarleton
 agreed in this suggestion, and said, he should be sorry to be absent at the discussion, as he had been one of those who hoped the new clause in the Mutiny act would have prevented the continuance of the practice of flogging, which he believed to be wholly unnecessary in the English army. As Wednesday se'nnight would be the 5th of June, perhaps the following day would be more convenient.Mr. Whitbread
320 said he could not attend
320Mr. Whitbread
 said, he came down to the House to day, for the purpose of renewing a notice which he had given last night on the subject of the Message received from his royal highness the Prince Regent, in answer to the Address of the House, relative to Mr. Palmer's claims. The answer which his royal highness had been advised by ministers to give to that Address, conveyed the grossest possible insult on that House, going, as it did, to express a doubt of the inclination, or of the ability of the House to make good any sums which his royal highness might order to be issued in consequence of an Address of that House. He had given his notice on this subject, in consequence of having seen a printed paper, purporting to give an account of the proceedings in another place, in which it was stated, that his Majesty's ministers had advised the Prince Regent not to accede to the recommendation of the House. Nothing but imperious duty could have induced him to postpone such a motion beyond the earliest possible moment at which it could be brought forward; but he was under an absolute necessity of going to the country, and could not be in the House sooner than Thursday; he therefore now gave notice, that if no other member chose to bring the matter under the consideration of the House before that day, he should then submit a motion on the subject, although he should thereby be obliged to postpone another matter of importance which stood for that day, it being his intention that the present subject should take the precedence. He now moved, That the Answer of his royal highness the Prince Regent to the Address of that House be read.Mr. Whitbread
 observed that the right hon. gent. (Mr. Dundas) seemed to rise up in great wrath that he had been personally alluded to. The truth, was, that the present was intrinsically a personal question, and if the right hon. gent. chose to bring forward claims for remuneration of its services, it was necessary to enter into the consideration of the merits on which those claims were founded. He thought the learned gent, who spoke last had shewn a great indiscretion in alluding to the pledging of the sinecure office.Lord Folkestone
 as he had been alluded to by the hon. gent. thought it proper to state, that before leaving office he had recommended that the salaries of the president and other officers of the Board of Controul should be put on a more respectable footing, and that he considered the public service materially interested in this augmentation of salary.Lord Castlereagh,
 moved the order of the day for the House going into a Committee on the Militia Interchange Bill.—on the question that the Speaker do leave the chair,Mr. Secretary Ryder
 wished; in consequence of a meeting of colonels of Militia, and lord lieutenants of counties, held this day, and their having appointed a Committee to wait on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to-morrow, that some delay might be granted, to afford them an opportunity of urging their objections to the Bill.Colonel Stanley
 conceivedthat no real ground of objection had been stated to the increase. As the recommendation came from successive presidents of the Board, and consequently did not originate with his right hon. friend, nothing had been said to prove that it would be improper to grant the increase now.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
331 could see no cause for delay, as the House were already perfectly in possession of the object of any petitions that might be presented, and might as well consider that point now as hereafter. The free exercise of their religion was the object the Catholics had in view, and it appeared at once, that they must enjoy that under the present Bill, or it would be one law compelling to the breach of another. All that could be wished was the same freedom to attend to public worship in England, as they enjoyed in Ireland, and it was clear that they would have all they requested by this law, which virtually repealed all former acts on the same subject. But if any doubt remained, it would at once be removed by looking at the clause, which ordained that the militias of England, Scotland, and Ireland should enjoy all the same
331The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the good sense in which the right hon. gent. seemed not to be wanting in his treatment of other questions, appeared to fail him altogether upon every subject relative to Ireland. If the present question had not been connected with Ireland, how could the right hon. gent. have observed as he had done upon what had fallen from his right hon. friend. His right hon. friend has said, that there would be no need of delay, if a certain objection was removed. That objection the right hon. gent. refused to remove; and yet be contended that his right hon. friend was bound by his own argument to admit the delay to be unnecessary. The avowed object of the Bill was to promote more effectually the union and harmony of the two countries. Did it tend to that object to compel the Roman Catholic to come to this country with a doubt, if not a penal restraint upon his religious rights? But it was said, that he would be put in the same situation in this country he was in his own, and that therefore he must be satisfied; but was he satisfied? was the Irish Catholic content under his present restrictions? Admitting, however, that the present Bill put him in the same state in this country as he had been in his own, but that he did not think it did so, was it too great a sacrifice to the religious feeling of the country to make a distinct clause, which would remove every doubt on the subject? If the right hon. gent., who had been himself so long an eminent lawyer, was sincere upon this subject, he was sure that he must wish to put it in as unquestionable a shape as possible. He would be above contending with what he might call the ignorance or prejudices of the Catholic upon this subject.Mr. Hutchinson
 doubted whether Mr. Fox, having the subject completely before him, had ever withdrawn such a clause as that now proposed: if he had, he would doubt the accuracy even of Mr. Fox's judgment. He rose, not so much to speak to the question, as to notice, that an hon. friend of his would submit a motion on this point on the report, when they would have an opportunity of discussing it.Mr. Ponsonby
 said he would vote for any clause that would render the Catholic rights clear and explicit, but in the mean time, would not suffer that to induce him to vote against so excellent a measure.Mr. Herbert
 then observed, that to obviate any misapprehension of the subject, he was willing to move the insertion of words stating, that the Irish Catholic militiaman, when transferred to England, should be entitled to the same civil, military, and religious exemptions, as were enjoyed by him in Ireland.Mr. Secretary Ryder
332 did not think the measure particularly expedient, and deprecated
332Sir W. W. Wynn
 adverted to the Irish volunteering Bill of 1804, at which period Mr. Fox, having suggested the introduction into that Bill of a clause exactly similar to that recommended by the hon. gentlemen opposite, and having been told that by the clear construction of the law the Irish Catholic soldier would, on coming to this country, be maintained in the enjoyment of his own religion, acquiesced in the reply. He had authority from his royal highness the Duke of York, to state, that on the passing of the Bill, an order should be issued similar to that issued by the Commander in Chief in Ireland. If any doubt yet remained on the minds of the House upon the subject, he was persuaded that it must he removed on hearing the opinions of the law officers of the crown. He here read the opinions of the Attorney and Solicitor General, in which it was stated that by the provisions of the Bill, the Irish Catholic militiaman, on his transfer to this country, would be entitled to all the privileges with respect to religion, which he had heretofore enjoyed in Ireland, notwithstanding any act to the contrary which might now be in force in Great Britain.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said he had certainly given notice of the motion on Saturday; but if the right hon. baronet wished it postponed till to-morrow; or any day at but a short distance of time, he had no objection to the postponement of the subject. It was, however, to be remembered that the motion was merely one to carry into effect the Resolution of last session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l repealed, that he had given notice on Saturday.—The House then resolved itself into the Committee, in which the right hon. gentleman moved, That an addition of 10,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not conceive himself at present called on to enter into any of the personal allusions of the hon. gent. He, for himself, should never have thought of bringing forward the present Bill, had his own interest alone been concerned, bat he was called upon to do so for the sake of others, whose interests were also concerned in it, at the suggestions of those who were interested in the permanent respectability of that department of the public service.Mr. R. Dundas
 characterised the measure as fraught with the greatest political and military advantages to the empire.General Tarleton
329 expressed his determination to vote against any increase of salary, as the claims of the officers of the army and navy were infinitely greater than the claims of civil officers. He was aware of the embarrassed situation of the country; but when ministers talked of the flourishing state of the finances, it was his duty to mention the claims of the profession to which he belonged. A right hon.
329General Tarleton
 was of the same opinion, and read part of a letter from the titular archbishop of Tuam to the effect, that the. Irish Catholics would oppose the measure, unless the free exercise of their religion was secured to them by law. This should, he said, be a matter of right, and not dependent on the will of any officer. The introduction of a clause to that effect, would promote recruiting in Ireland, and was beside the least objectionable, and most statesman-like mode of acting. It would also prevent the meetings projected in various parts, and he should, therefore, prefer having such a clause moved on the Report, though, in the mean time, he should vote for the delay.Mr. Grattan
328 did not very well understand what the right hon. gent. meant by being compelled by others to bring forward a Bill for his own benefit, He, for one, was persuaded that all the great offices under government should be provided with ample salaries, and he was sensible that many of the salaries were by no means adequate; and had this very office of President of the Board of Controul been in the hands of any other person than the right hon. gent., he should have willingly consented to have the salary increased; but when he considered that this increase was called for at a period of peculiar national distress, and that the right hon. gent. enjoyed already a sinecure office to a considerable amount, and when he considered what, in his mind, was conclusive with respect to the present period, that claims of the greatest importance had been postponed, the claims of the officers of the army and navy, of those men who were employed in the most efficient service of the state, who had the most undeniable right of preference, he could not consent to the present augmentation. He thought it was by no means judicious to agree to the augmentation, without previously going into a more extensive inquiry; for be was not only satisfied that the salaries
328Mr. Calcraft
 objected to the principle of the Bill altogether.Mr. P. Moore
327lllllll326l325llllllllll said, he rose to object to this Bill, in its present state, to that part of it at least that related the increase of salary to the President of the Board of Controul. By the act of 1793, that act under which the East India Company now hold their charter, 16,000327lllllll326l325llllllllllMr. Creevey
 observed, the question whether the East India company's charter ought to be renewed, and whether the salaries of the officers of the Board of Controul were to be adequate, was perfectly distinct; and he could see no reason if these salaries were at present inadequate, why they should not be augmented. The office of the President of the Board of Controul should be made substantive, and equal in point of salary to the other great offices under government. With respect to the sinecure office which it had been said the right hon. gent. enjoyed under government, it was not properly a public sinecure, but was paid from the fees of suitors in a court of law; and it consisted with his knowledge, that it had been pledged by the right hon. gent., for the sake of defraying his father's expences at Westminster Hall.Mr. W. Adam
 wished for an additional clause on the subject, or at least that the Regent should be advised to make a new article of war upon it.Mr. W. Elliot
330 stated of his own knowledge, that objections were entertained in Ireland against this Bill. The Irish militia were not precisely on the same footing with the English militia, that is, they were not the same kind of constitutional military force; besides, if the Irish were to be compelled to come over and bear arms in this country, they had a right to require that they should be allowed the free and undisturbed exercise of their religion. In requiring this, the Irish only asked of England to give them the same privileges she gave to the German troops now in this country.
330Mr. Tighe
334 objected to any augmentation
334Mr. Tighe
 said, that without an increase above the present allowance, the expence must prove ruinous to any private fortune whatever.Mr. W. Pole
 explained that the proposed regulation first took in the surplus of the Civil List, and the deficiency only was to be supplied from the consolidated fund.Mr. W. Pole
 thought that this ought to be done out of the surplus of the Civil List, which was at present paid to his Majesty.Sir J. Newport
 followed on the same side, and stated that, according to notice, a Catholic meeting was to-morrow to be held in Dublin, to consider of the propriety of petitioning on the subject of allowing the Catholics the free exercise of their religion. If this measure, as was said, was intended to promote union, let it not be made the subject, of controversy. By the 1st of Geo. 1, chap. 13, it was rendered penal to carry arms without taking the oath of supremacy, and he could not see reason why a doubt on this subject should be suffered to remain on the mind of any one, when a single explicit clause in this Bill would do it away.Sir J. Newport
 replied, that if it was only intended to bring in a Bill in the regular way, on the subject, there would be sufficient opportunities for him to express his sentiments hereafter. He did not, under all the circumstances, wish to cause any delay, but he was not aware that the House had the regular notice, Saturday not being a clay on which notices were commonly given.Sir J. Newport
 wished to know if any notice had been given on the subject. A something had been done last session at a very late period, and it was then understood that early this session certain documents were to be laid before the House, to prove the proposed increase of allowance necessary. This he thought ought to be done, and it was proper that some notice should be given to allow time for the due consideration of the subject.Sir J. Newport
353352351 agreed with the hon. mover in many parts of what had fallen from him, both with respect to the general practice of the House and its high authority. The limits of its powers were large and extensive, necessary for its own dignity and security, as well as for the benefit of the people. He might add, that their permanency depended on keeping within these bounds. He was also ready to admit, that there was no precedent for an answer like the present, but would the hon. gent. shew him any precedent for such an Address? When the opposition of the other House to this grant was known, and that House had an equal power with the Commons with respect to
353352351Mr. Bankes
354 with all the desire which he sincerely had to concur in the motion of his hon. friend, still found himself unable to do so, because the conviction which established custom had fixed upon his mind, remained unshaken. When he differed from his hon. friend on this subject, he still was firm on the point of preserving their privileges in case they should be attacked. Those privileges were given them for the benefit of the people: they were the safe-guard of the country; and that House was bound to return them in safety to their representatives; they should preserve them unshaken by the crown, unimpaired by the House of Lords, unencroached on even by the blind fury of the people themselves. If his hon. friend thought that ministers were attempting to tamper with those privileges, he ought not to have allowed a single day to interfere between the breach and the accusation. As to the precedents which had been adduced, if they were allowed to have any weight, they would go to affirm that the House of Commons would have a right to vote money bills altogether, without the check or control of the House of Lords. Three precedents had been quoted, which were founded in the reign of queen Anne. It was true, indeed, that the sums therein alluded to had been voted by a communication between the queen and the House of Commons, but the reason of this was obvious; no application was necessary from the crown to the House of Lords for the grant of money, because the grant must constitutionally originate with the House of Commons.—Having delivered his opinion on the parliamentary law of the subject, he must also beg leave to give his judgment on the conduct of ministers. He could not help thinking that the right hon. gent. would have acted much more wisely, if he had lent a furthering hand to the decision of the House of Commons, when they had agreed that the money ought to be granted, instead of giving, as he had done, every possible opposition to
354Mr. Lambe,
355 felt himself in a singular predicament; because having formerly voted against the grant to Mr. Palmer, he was now inclined to vote for the motion which went to support that grant. It did not signify, however, what might have been his individual opinion on a former occasion, that opinion the House had over-ruled, and he considered himself bound by the decision of the majority. In exactly the same situation as now did he stand the last session. He was determined to vote for the present motion. On the Address, the simple address of that House, the King had paid the debts of the earl of Chatham. It was a notorious fact that the address of the House of Commons, or their vote, was always considered decisive on money questions. Did the Exchequer ever wait for any thing else? Did they ever wait for an act of appropriation? Even in the loan, where all a man was worth in the world was concerned, they never scrupled to act on the mere Resolution of the House of Commons. As to what had been said with respect to the issue of small sums by the House of Lords, no doubt it was the case. But was it not also the fact, that the moment these sums were voted by the House of Lords, they were provided for by a vote of the Committee of Supply of the House of Commons, and to this vote the Exchequer paid respect? He must contend, after all that had been said upon the subject, that there was no parliamentary ground for supposing that any difference of opinion existed between the Houses of Lords and Commons. It was certainly true that the grant of this money had been formerly voted by the House of Commons, and rejected by the Lords. It ought to be remembered now, however, that it was three sessions since the Lords had rejected this grant, and the Commons had no right to suppose that they might not have changed their sentiments. It was an established and acknowledged principle, that the House of Commons was the guardian of the public purse—the sole dispenser of the public money. In his opinion, if they submitted to the answer of the right hon. gentleman (for he should not call it the Answer of the Prince Regent), they would
355Mr. C. W. Wynn
 presented a Petition from the distressed manufacturers of Manchester. He stated that the petition was subscribed by more than forty thousand signatures, the majority of whom were reduced to a state of extreme distress. As he conceived this to be a subject of great public importance, he was willing to give the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the House clue notice, to consider of the best and speediest mode of administering relief to so large and valuable a portion of the community. He should upon a future day call the attention of the House to this subject. He then moved that the Petition be brought up.Mr. Blackburne
340 said, that particular circumstances had made him acquainted with the condition of those upon whose behalf the Petition was presented, and never, he believed, was there an instance in which the labourers of this country suffered such distress. He was far from attributing this serious evil to the conduct of his Majesty's ministers; it was owing, he apprehended, altogether to the successful efforts of our great enemy. He hoped,
340Sir Robert Peel
 said he had another Petition of a similar nature, signed by six or seven thousand of the weavers, spinners and labourers of cotton in the town and vicinity of Bolton, in Lancashire, which he should present when this was disposed of. The petitioners were a most industrious class of men, and the distresses to which they were exposed were great and serious.Colonel Stanley
342341 said, he did not doubt that such Petitions would always be received by the House, and disposed of, according to its best judgment. In the present instance, he was anxious that the Petition and all its details should be fully before them, in order that they might come to the consideration of the question with all the information necessary. He thought the motion, of which the hon. gent. who presented the Petition had given notice, a proper one; it was right that he should hereafter fix a day for moving that it should be referred to a Committee, upon which occasion, the House would have to consider all the points embraced in such a motion; it would have to consider the evil, the prayer, and the remedy; it would have to consider whether it would be practicable to afford sufficient relief, and as a necessary branch of that consideration, whether, if sufficient relief could not be afforded, the attempt might not excite expectations which could not be fulfilled, and, by so doing, aggravate instead of alleviating the distresses. The present was not the time for discussing those topics; he should therefore satisfy himself with declaring upon his own part, and he believed he might upon the part of every member of that House, that it was his desire to afford every practical relief; but that he should feel it necessary to guard against encouraging any hope which was not likely to be realized.342341The Chancellor of the Exchequer
343s then presented the Petition from several weavers and spinners of cotton handicrafts artists and labourers, resident in the town of Bolton, in the county of Lancaster, or its vicinity, setting forth,343sColonel Stanley
361360359 was satisfied the House would do him the justice to recollect, that he was not disposed, as the right hon. gent. asserted, to shelter himself under numbers, for he had risen immediately before the hon. gent. (Mr. Bankes), who had, however, the good fortune to catch the Speaker's eye. The question was to be decided by argument, and not by numbers. He could not avoid adverting to the difference of tone entertained by gentlemen opposite on a former night; they then stated, that in giving to the Prince Regent the advice which had been followed, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had committed an act unconstitutional in it nature, and infringing on the privileges of the House. On that occasion he had challenged the hon. gent. to bring forward the charge, as indeed it was his duty to have done, immediately. It could not be forgotten that the hon. gent. was very anxious upon that subject. What was the nature of the charge, as now made? That the Address of this House was operative upon the Crown; and that it became, as it were, the moment it passed, a sort of imperative command which the Crown was bound to obey. Was it so? Did it follow that the Crown was bound to assent immediately to the terms of any Address? Would any man at all acquainted with the constitution of the country, affect to maintain such a position? Had not the Crown the full, legal, and constitutional authority to pause before it complied with that or any Address of a similar nature? That was all that had been done in this instance; and when gentlemen contended for a doctrine contrary to this, they were maintaining what, in his opinion, would tend to subvert that fabric they so much desired to retain—the ancient constitution of
361360359The Chancellor of the Exchequer
362 maintained that it had been the right of the House of Commons to issue any sums of money ever since the Revolution. He did not mean to argue the present question as a breach of privilege, but he confessed he felt some surprise to hear the gentlemen on the opposite side cheering the expression of sentiments, which tended to lower the dignity of the House. He must consider the Answer sent to the Address of the House as derogatory to its honour; and never, he hoped, would that House suffer itself to be dictated to what extent it should raise any sums of money. The right hon. gent. had said, that he was not to be blamed, but he maintained that he was, for he took the part of the other House against the House of Commons. He would ask, whether there were no instances where the House of Lords disagreed with the vote of the House of Commons; and yet that the House of Commons had persevered and finally prevailed? The right hon. gent. said, that the House of Lords had a legislative voice, and he agreed that they had, when the matter came before them in a legislative shape, but in no other. What were the words of the answer? "When the House has made legislative provision for the same;" that was, when the House had consulted the House of Lords. The House of Lords had but a simple affirmative or negative in such matters, and it was absurd to argue for their possessing a coequal power in matters of money. He should be as sorry as any man to see any dissension between the Crown and the Commons; but there was nothing more calculated to create it than such an answer as had been sent to the Address! and he would assert, that if the House of Commons possessed less power than was now
362Mr. Ponsonby
 had stated it to be his intention to place the Catholic soldier on the same fooling here as in Ireland; and on such a footing, he contended, he was placed by the Bill as it at present stood. Immediately after the passing of the Bill it was intended that an order should be issued from the office of the commander in chief, allowing each individual to attend that place of worship which he might select. The Irish Catholic had no greater security in Ireland for the enjoyment of his religion, and therefore the proposed clause was unnecessary. For that reason, and for that alone, he should oppose its being introduced.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 would be very happy if the affair could be decided in a court of justice, but expressed his conviction that it could not be so modelled as to be brought fairly to issue. With respect to the offer which the hon. gent. said had been made to him, he declared himself wholly ignorant of any authority having been given to any one of the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he would willingly leave the whole matter to the decision of a court of law, provided the case should not be allowed to be injured by the recent death of a most material witness, whose former examination might, however, be received as evidence. He mentioned an offer of compromise which had been made to him last session, by a person who stated that he was authorised to do so. At that time he declined it; but after the session, being ordered on foreign service, and contemplating the probability that he might not return, he wrote to the right hon. gent. opposite on the subject, who disavowed any knowledge of the offer which had before been made to him. He apologised to his friends for the trouble which he had given them. Many of them had advised him not to press his father's claims at present, but to wait for a more favourable opportunity. He had been induced to reject that advice from a consideration of the weak and infirm state of the individual in whom he was so nearly interested, and who, if he did not speedily enjoy the benefit of a determination in his favour, would in all probability never enjoy it at all.Mr. Palmer
350 then rose, and and spoke under the influence of such natural feelings, as rendered him scarcely audible. He expressed a hope, that he had, throughout all the discussions upon this question, conducted himself with becoming temper; and he would confess, that the manner in which the debate had been managed on a late occasion, did put that temper to a severe trial. He should not then trespass on the House by replying to arguments which had been so often refuted; but as he found that forbearance served only to provoke still greater hostility, he should on that occasion submit to the House a plain statement of the case. He should have expected of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was the great opposer of Mr. Palmer's claims, that having once made a promise upon the subject, he would have considered himself bound to perform it. That right hon. gentleman, and others, on a former night, had resorted to extracts from private letters on which to ground their accusations against Mr. Palmer. Now, he, too, could refer to a private letter from that right hon. gentleman, containing a promise, which he should leave the House to judge how he had performed. The letter had been written to an hon. friend of his, to whom he should ever feel indebted for the continued support which he had on all occasions given to Mr. Palmer's claims. That hon. friend had remonstrated with the right hon. gentleman, on the opposition which he persisted in giving to Mr. Palmer's claims; and in answer to such re-
350Colonel Palmer
358l357l said that be perceived the right hon. gentleman opposite did not mean to enter on his defence, but chose rather to trust to his numbers than to argument. This was, however, in his opinion a most important case; it contained the claims of a very meritorious individual, who had been of the greatest service to the public and to the revenue. It had undergone the ordeal of no less than six investigations, and, so many times had that House been determined in his favour. He would not then trouble the House by going into any lengthened detail of the whole of Mr. Palmer's treatment from his first connection with his Majesty's government. The petition of Mr. Palmer came recommended from the Crown; it was referred to a Committee, great numbers of whom were the friends of the right hon. gentleman; and that Committee had determined in favour of Mr. Palmer. The right hon. gentleman contrived to leave the vote out of the Appropriation Act, and the matter was made the subject of a separate Bill which was thrown out by the Lords. The right hon. gentleman, finding himself out-voted in the House of Commons, very cunningly said to himself, "Well, as that is the case, though I have many friends here, I have more in another place, and there I can defeat all that has been carried against me here." From this circumstance the right hon. gentleman inferred that the Lords' decision upon that Bill was a proof that they would be adverse to the vote of the House of Commons. This inference, however, Mr. Tierney denied; for the Lords had only said, that they thought the claim of Mr. Palmer to the per centage was too great. He was sure however, the Lords would have no objection to give Mr. Palmer 54000358l357lMr. Tierney
364363 was a good deal surprised at the manner in which the question had been discussed. It was not a question of party. He saw, however, that he was likely to vote in a small minority; but however great the majority against him might be, it was still a majority against the House of Commons. He had been accused of inconsistency. He had never used the word privilege. He had been cautious of that. He had seen too much
364363Mr. Whitbread
dsl344 said, before he moved that the Address of that House to the Prince Regent, on the subject of Mr. Palmer's Claims, and his royal highness's Answer thereto, be read, he begged to wave the notice relative to a legislative provision for any future illness of his Majesty, which Stood for that evening, as the discussion on the question he wag then about to introduce to the House, would probably occupy a considerable time. Even however if that were not likely to be the case, he would have felt it his duty to postpone that notice, in consequence of certain circumstances, which had come to his knowledge, and to the knowledge of the public. On Friday se'nnight, however, he would submit to the House a proposition connected with that subject. He then moved: "That the entry in the Votes of jibe House of the 21st day of this instant May, of the Address of this House to his
dsl344Mr. Whitbread
349348ll347346345 then said, he thought he was justified, from the diligent search he had made, and from the information which, he had derived from various sources, in asserting, that Addresses similar to that which had just been read, and directed in the same manner to be presented to the throne, had, during a long series of years, been voted by that House; and he also conceived himself justified in saying, that no Answer, like unto that given to this Address, had ever before been delivered at the bar of that House. It was well understood as a point settled and confirmed, that the House of Commons not only claimed, but had the right to originate all grants of money to the crown; not only that, but they also had the right to appropriate and dispose of all grants so voted. Many salutary rules had been laid down, and a regular course of proceeding had been adopted with regard to the mode to be observed in granting the public money: the adherence to which was of great importance, as giving them a right to appropriate the sums voted by that House. Taking the subject up at the Revolution, and tracing it down to the present period, it would be found, that, in almost every year, addresses had been voted by the House of Commons, calling on the crown to advance sums of money for various purposes, and pledging the House to make good the same. In no one instance, where they had voted such an Address, or where the crown had, in consequence, advanced any sum of money, had the House ever failed to make good such advance. On various occasions the crown had applied to that House for assistance, relying on its powers and privileges as alone sufficient to grant the sums necessary for the support of the throne. The House, in answer to those Messages, had invariably taken on itself the right and the power of granting the object desired, or of relieving those necessities which were pointed out. It remained for the right hon. gent. and his colleagues, in this year, 1811, to de-
349348ll347346345Mr. Whitbread
367366 rose to move a clause to give to the Catholic Militiaman legal security for the exercise of his religion in this country. He was ready to allow that the amendments which had been made to the Bill in the Committee had removed some of the objections which he originally entertained. By them the Catholic Militia officer would be protected against the penalties and disabilities of the Test Act, and the Acts of George 3. Still, however, the Bill was not what it ought to be, so far as the Catholic private soldier was concerned. Though the right hon. gent. said he was willing to put him in this country on the same footing in respect to the exercise of his religion, as he was now in Ireland, and that a general order would be issued immediately by the commander in chief for that purpose, he (Mr. Parnell) would maintain that such a security was not a sufficient one—because even in Ireland the Catholic soldier did not stand in the condition in which he ought to be in this respect; for though the Irish Act of 1793 enabled the Catholic to serve in the army, the constructive privilege conferred by that act as to religious worship, was taken away by the mutiny act. By this Act, which is annually passed by parliament, every commanding officer in Ireland is enabled to order the Catholic soldier to attend the Protestant service, and in case of disobedience of his orders, he is enabled to inflict the punishment of fining and imprisoning, in a summary way; or to bring the soldier who disobeys him before a court martial for the general crime of disobedience of orders. This was a power which does at this moment exist in Ireland. To give, therefore, to the Catholic Militia-man, when in this country, only the same privileges as he possesses in Ireland, was to leave him subject to a punishment by law for refusing to attend the service of the established church. He endeavoured to remove this great injustice by the amendment which he proposed to the Mutiny Bill, when last before this House; the reasons for adopting a clause such as he now proposed, were still stronger than any which
367366Mr. Parnell
356 thought there was no question about the power possessed by that House, of originating grants, or the power of the Crown in relying upon that House for aid, or of the principle of any of the Addresses to the Crown. The question more immediately for the House to consider was, whether they having come to a Resolution to address the Crown, and the Address being carried up, it was not the duty of the minister to advise the answer; and whether, having so advised, there was any thing in that answer which could be construed into a breach of the constitution. What was desired by the hon. mover? Why that the House should pause. Was there any thing unconstitutional in that? The right hon. baronet then took a view of the rise and progress of Addresses, which, in some instances, he observed, had been carried a little further than strict principle could warrant. In many instances the crown had exercised its own discretion against the advice of the ministers. In those times, which by some would be considered not the worst, when a. Whig Administration governed the country, upon an Address of the House to queen Anne, recommending the fortifying Chatham and Portsmouth, the Queen returned for answer (which, according to the doctrine of the present day, was an answer tending to disturb the unanimity of both Houses), that she was happy the House had attended to the fortifying Chatham and Portsmouth; but that as the expence was to be defrayed out of the aids of the year, and the expence was indefinite, she would order the plans and estimates necessary for the works to be drawn out, and then call upon parliament for their aid and assistance to carry it into effect. That was a case in point. He did not know in what part of the constitution it could be found that one House issued money from the public purse without the consent of the other. Were ministers to be blamed for advising the Crown to recommend the House to pause, not for the purpose of rejecting Mr. Palmer's
356Sir J. Anstruther
413412411 rose, and said, that he was authorised in stating the principles of the Catholics from the books which they themselves had published, and considered of absolute authority. Before be read any extracts from them, he should state the oath which was taken by every Catholic bishop and priest, and then should leave it to the House to judge whether persons who professed principles such as were contained in the oaths, ought not to be looked on with a suspicious eye by
413412411Dr. Duigenan
 was of opinion, that even if the prayer of the petitioners were granted, it would not tend to suppress that disunion which marred the fairest prospects of Ireland; and he was of the same opinion ha had delivered upon a former occasion, because the same objections he had then still applied to the petitions on the table of that House. He attributed much of the discontent that prevailed in Ireland and most of their calamities, to the non-residence of the men of property among their tenants. These grievances existed twenty seven years beforé the Union, and were not attributable to that measure. But until he should see a petition founded on an unqualified basis of an uncontrouled Veto in the King, he should give his negative to going into a Committee.Lord Jacelyn
 thought the noble lord had taken a proper opportunity to lay before the House those grievances which he conceived Ireland laboured under. He was much of the same opinion; nothing convinced him more strongly that the Union was not a wise measure; and the oftener the question came before him, the more he was confirmed in his opinion. If what the Roman Catholics asked was proper to be conceded to them, it should be given, not on account of their numbers, but of the justice of their demand—if not useful to be granted, the House ought not to be afraid to refuse it. They were not to be intimidated into it by numbers. He saw no backwardness in the population of that country to engage in the army, nor any disposition to withhold themselves from embarking faithfully and heartily in the cause of their country. There was no pretence, however, for saying that the Roman Catholics in Ireland did not enjoy a full and complete toleration; and in his opinion it was of little consequence to the bulk and mass of the population of that country, whether it was extended further or not. At the same time he wished some middle course could be taken which would ameliorate their condition, and satisfy their wishes.Mr. Bankes
418onus probandi417416 did not wish in this late stage of the debate to trespass on the patience of the House, but there had been some observations made in the course of it, which he could not let pass without comment. An hon. gentleman had asked, how we could be sure that, if the present demands of the Catholics were granted, they would stop there, or at any thing short of the subversion of the Established Church. The partial demonstrations of hostility on the part of the Catholics, which had excited these apprehensions in the hon. gentleman, or afforded him a pretext for the pressing them, he would find sufficient, and more than sufficient cause for, in the unnatural situation in which the whole Catholic body was placed, and more especially such a part of it as was placed more near the grateful liquid that receded in proportion as the thirst that sought to be slaked by it became more ardent. What, for instance, was the situation of the Catholic barrister? The possessor of talents, which every day excited the admiration of his fellow citizens, and seemed to qualify him for any employment in the state? The moment he opened the statute book he would find that all his exertions were insufficient to procure him any of those offices in which,
418onus probandi417416Mr. Ponsonby
420419 observed, that the hon. gent. who spoke last had revived the claim as of right which had some time ago been urged in the course of these discussions, but which had been dropped on the two last occasions when this question was agitated, and which had not been heard of to-night till introduced by the last speaker. He agreed so fully in what the right hon. gent, who spoke last but one had said respecting the length of the discussion, that he should not have offered himself to the attention of the
420419The Chancsllor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, denied that he had said that the people of this country would resist the act of the legislature, if it should think proper to grant the claims of the Catholics; still more, that he should encourage such resistance, With respect to tythes, what he had said was, that if the Catholics should obtain their present claims, they would then look to a participation of the Church revenues, whether consisting of tythes or of any other property.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
369presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of the county and city of Cork, whose names are thereunto subscribed, on behalf of themselves and others his Majesty's subjects, professing the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, setting forth,369Mr. Hutchinson 
391***390***389388** then stated that the Committee of English Catholics had recently addressed a noble earl (Grey) and himself, (however unworthily, as the substitute of his lamented friend,) requesting them "to make such use of the petition of the English Roman Catholics as they shall deem most conducive to the general interests of the Roman Catholics of the united kingdom."—With this latitude of delegation and responsibility,—he, as an
391***390***389388**Sir J. H.
393392pro formâjussu reverendissimiobserved, that his object in thus referring to the hostile opinions of individuals of the highest order of the clergy, which had been so solemnly urged, both in diocesan charges, and from the pulpit—(and one of the/m, and indeed the most unqualified in deprecating the presumed imminent dangers which threatened the state from the admission of Catholics to civil or military stations, had been delivered before the provincial synod of Canterbury, and published, 393392pro formâjussu reverendissimiSir J. H. 
397† In the instance of the projected general Highway Bill, in its progress through parliament, many successive reports were printed by the House, in order to be circulated, with the Bill itself, through the country. Those reports, with the evidence, were transmitted to the provincial magistrates, in sessions or individually, with a view to inform the public, in the distant parts of the kingdom, of the nature of the proposed amendments:—a precedent of highly useful adoption, as connected with the present question, on which the opinions of the great mass of the people should be considered with considerable deference, especially on a question involving a departure from the long established policy of the constitution. Where the policy has been founded in error, that error should be satisfactorily manifested.***Like a tall Bully, lifts its head and lies.*396imprimatur395 then went into considerable details of observation on the obligatory operation of such canons, and their supposed influence on the civil constitution of a state; he could well anticipate much that would fall from the right hon. civilian, on the opposite side of the House, on this head of general councils and papal rescripts, especially in reference to his favourite theme of the fourth Lateran Council. But again he must observe that decrees of discipline are of a temporary nature, and generally to be received or rejected, at the discretion of a national clergy, and that neither the dispensing doctrine, as to oaths of allegiance, nor the deposing doctrine, which naturally springs out of it, were ever declared by any general council, as a canon or decree of faith: but the contrary has been maintained by œcumenical councils,—by provincial synods,—by the faculties of theology in the universities of the continent,—and by the rescripts of Popes.—That some individual pontiffs, from the time of Gregory 7, to Pius 5, have been prone to assert such a power, is also admitted,—but such opinions have no pretension to infallibility in the estimation of Catholics, nor can it be proved, that in any state, such a proposition was ever, for a moment, seriously entertained by any Catholic body. The contrary, indeed, was sufficiently proved by the history of our own country, when Catholic, and since the reformation,—and by the history of every other state in Europe.—It was not material therefore, to shew that the objectionable canon of the fourth Lateran Council was of spurious origin, which some of the most accredited Catholic writers of the last century admitted, and which has since been maintained by the Catholic Bishop Hay, Father O'Leary, and others of the present day; at any rate it was an antiquated transaction of the twelfth century, and applicable to no existing state or condition of the present age.—" We are in a new world," (as it was observed by the latter writer), "raised on the ruins of the former, and if hitherto we could not agree as Christians, it was high time to live together as men."—So in the Council of Trent, the last œcumenical council, the abstract doctrines of faith were enjoined on pain of anathema,—but the practical decree of confiscation of the land, to pious uses, on which a duel shall be fought, however laudable the motive, is rejected by every Catholic state as wholly out of the province of legitimate
397† In the instance of the projected general Highway Bill, in its progress through parliament, many successive reports were printed by the House, in order to be circulated, with the Bill itself, through the country. Those reports, with the evidence, were transmitted to the provincial magistrates, in sessions or individually, with a view to inform the public, in the distant parts of the kingdom, of the nature of the proposed amendments:—a precedent of highly useful adoption, as connected with the present question, on which the opinions of the great mass of the people should be considered with considerable deference, especially on a question involving a departure from the long established policy of the constitution. Where the policy has been founded in error, that error should be satisfactorily manifested.***Like a tall Bully, lifts its head and lies.*396imprimatur395Sir J. H.
then proceeded to acquit that part of the task which he had undertaken, in conformity to the wishes of the respectable body to which he had before alluded, namely, the noblemen and gentlemen composing the Committee of the English Roman Catholics.Sir J. H. 
Hisponiarum Rege consulenti.398* observed, that in a recent publication of the right hon. civilian (Dr. D.Hisponiarum Rege consulenti.398*Sir J. H.
400399 then observed that he held in his hand the originals of the answers, of the six Universities, and it was the desire of the surviving members of the original committee, and of the learned gent, Mr. Charles Butler (whose important services
400399Sir J. H.
403402***401Propaganda fide proceeded to remark more particularly on the late publication of Dr. Milner, as contrasted to his former declarations on the subject of the Veto,—referring to his correspondence with cardinal Borgia, when at the head of the college of 403402***401Propaganda fideSir J.
lon the authority of three of the four Roman Catholic Vicars Apostolic, Drs. Douglas, Gibson, and Collingridge, contradicted a report that they had been offered, or had solicited, salaries of 500lSir J. H. 
*404 in adverting to the apprehensions expressed of the admission of Roman Catholics to seats in the legislature, observed that they had sat during four reigns since the reformation: but if danger was really to be apprehended from a preponderance in point of number of such members, which cannot possibly be within any rational speculation, nevertheless, to remove the impression of such apprehensions in the most timid minds, however unsupported by any calculation founded On the existing state of population or influence, the proportion of Catholics sitting in parliament might possibly be regulated with a reference to the comparative Protestant population of the united kingdom. This was merely thrown out as a momentary impression; but the regulation of the several treaties of the empire, from that of Passau to the peace of Westphalia,
*404Sir J. H.
 said that he was himself the last to feel distrust of the civil principles of his Catholic fellow-subjects; yet if a Bill came into parliament, he should, at least wish not to leave it open to the will of a sovereign (as little as it was probable that it ever would be exercised) to appoint a Chancellor of the Roman Catholic communion. The office of chancellor must be considered, in some respects, as an ecclesiastical office; he is, in contemplation of law, the keeper of the king's conscience; the dispenser of ecclesiastical benefices, and the visitor of the colleges of royal foundation. It was not sufficient to say that a Protestant sovereign would not appoint a Catholic chancellor; the law should declare, that such could not be appointed. If the Catholic conceived it to be a hard restriction on the subject, he should consider, that the restriction on the first estate itself, is relatively harder: the King must conform to the established religion of the State, or he must forfeit his birth-right.†Sir J. H.
*: after many other observations and details of facts, concluded by declaring his opinion to be in favour of the motion of his right hon. friend, though he could have wished that it had extended to a notification of such a Committee as he had himself alluded to. No member of the House was more zealously attached to the constitution, both in church and state, than himself. He wished, nevertheless, to give a free currency to the investigation, and to see a great fabric of national strength, raised on the extension of antiquated prejudices. Union, he was persuaded was within our reach: uniformity was a hopeless pursuit, and, indeed unattainable.*Sir J. H
 stated that it had been his lot to spend about one half ofMr. Herbert of Kerry,
The next step is to have the words read, in order that the hon. gentleman to whom they are imputed may deny or justify them.The Speaker.
The next course is to divide the House on the question, whether the words have been used or not. Does the hon. member persist in that determination?The Speaker.
This business is now at an end.The Speaker.
 thought the question was, whether we were to have a Protestant establishment? He had maturely thought on the subject, and was by no means convinced that we should have a Protestant establishment if the Roman Catholics had what they wanted, it was denied that they practised idolatry; yet they professed the worshipping of Saints, which was recognised as part of their religion. He detested persecution as much as any man. He liked toleration; but still he wished to have it toleration, and not to have it right.Mr. C. Adams
moved, That the Petition of his Majesty's Catholic subjects, whose names are thereunto subscribed, as well for themselves as others his Majesty's subjects professing the Catholic faith in Ireland, which was presented upon the 20th day of this instant May, might be read; and the same was read. He also moved, That the Resolutions of the House of the 28th day of March last, giving the Thanks of the House to lieutenant general Thomas Graham and the army under his command, for the brilliant victory obtained on the heights of Barrosa, might be read; and the same were read. He also moved, That the Resolutions of the House of the 26th day of April last, giving the thanks of the House to lieutenant general lord viscount Wellington, and the army in Portugal, might be read: and the same being read: Mr. Grattan 
386385384383382l381380379378377376375374373372in toto371370 again rose and spoke to the following effect: Sir, in desiring that these several votes of the thanks of Parliament should be read, my object was, that this House may be reminded of the grievances, which we are called upon to redress, and that the petitioners may have the benefit of such approbation of the conduct of
386385384383382l381380379378377376375374373372in toto371370Mr. Grattan
427426 rose and observed, that he knew how irksome it was to the House, to hear any further arguments at that late hour, but something had fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which required animadversion. He had said that he (Mr. Grattan) had changed his manner of introducing this question. It was his duty to shew how mistaken he was, and that he had utterly misrepresented the part which he had taken. He did not abandon the statement which he then made. He had said that he had excluded foreign nomination then, and that he abandoned it at present. He did not abandon it. He said it would be necessary to prevent French nomination; but that was a matter of regulation; and he added that they should not alone act handsomely towards the Catholics in the first place, but also that they should take from them that security which the state might require. He had in this done better than the right hon. gent. with his degrading concession. The right hon. gent. had said, that he had once pronounced a panegyric on a certain doctor—He never had. He had said that he was our little deity—He never said any such thing. The right hon. gent. said that he (Mr. Grattan) undertook to speak the opinion of the Catholics of Ireland. He had never said any such thing. He had surely said that he was informed by Dr. Milner that such were their opinions, but he never undertook to promise for their truth. The right hon. gent. had said that he had expressed himself to the effect, that to pay tythes to the Protestant clergy was against the canon of the Almighty. He said no Such thing. He had said, that when they were taking from the Catholics their tytbes, and taking away from them their qualifications, that that was against the Canon of the Almighty. Let them take
427426Mr. Grattan
—I might have used the words which preceded those, but I do not recollect those which followed.Mr. Stephen.
425I really uttered the ex-
425Mr. Stephen.
Far from it; I believe the hon. gentleman to be as warm a friend to the country as any man can be.Mr. Stephen.
 commented in severe terms upon Mr. Whitbread's sentiments. He declared the toleration, which he had panegyrised in France, to be nothing but a mixture of despotism and hypocrisy, but, indeed, he believed, that there was no measure of Buonaparté's of which the hon. gent, would not be the apologist or advocate. (A loud cry of "Order, take down the words.")Mr. Stephen
l, in explanation, said that the meeting at which the petition that he had presented was signed, was convened by the magistrates of the county, was attended by the two representatives of that county, and several thousands of the most respectable inhabitants; and that a noble lord who presided on that occasion, had a landed property of 30,000lGeneral Mathew
410409 was decidedly of opi-
410409General Mathew
The words impute to me such a degree of criminality, that I must insist on their being taken down.Mr. Whitbread.
424423422421 rose, and called on the right hon. gent, who was a friend to Christian toleration, and an admirer of the Gospel of Christ, to open that Gospel, and shew him where he could find the Church and State united together, and where he could find, though tithes were created by men, that they were designated by God, as the engine of political aggrandizement, or of individual or national oppression? The right hon. gent. denied philosophical toleration; Socrates was a philosopher, and Christ himself was the greatest philosopher that ever lived. Did the right hon. gent. recollect that these statutes against Popery were the emanations of perjury and lies—just like the cry raised by himself in 1807—just like lord George Gordon's riots in the year 1780, the right hon. gent, himself being now at the head of that or of a similar mob. The learned doctor Duigenan, whom all deserted when his nomination as a privy counsellor was called in question, must be declared by acclamation to be the privy counsellor chosen by the right hon. gent. himself. That right hon. and learned Doctor had made a most illiberal attack on Mr. Finnerty, describing him as a person who had been a journeyman taylor. He (Mr. Whitbread) had no noble parentage to boast of, but he never despised an honest or meritorious man on that account. He would remind the right hon. and learned doctor, of a story which had probably escaped his recollection. It having been mentioned as a matter of disparagement to a person who had amassed a fortune, and got into a genteel line of life, that he had at
424423422421Mr. Whitbread
 thought the thanks deserved, and retracted what he had before said on the subject.Mr. Whitbread
Does the hon. member mean to say, that I am an enemy to my country?Mr. Whitbread.
I have considered that as the offence was a public insult to the House, I ought to demand the apology here rather than elsewhere. I am so far satisfied, and I do not believe that the hon. member meant the words in the full extent to which they might be imputed.Mr. Whitbread.
 said, it had been asked, if this measure was extended to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, would it not be expected that it should go to the different sectaries in England also? He did not know what was expected, but he could say that in his opinion it ought to extend to all. The right of silting in that House was all the privilege they enjoyed more than the Catholics; and during the years he had been a member, he could not have held a situation of the most trifling kind under the crown, without transgressing the law of the land, far which he must be punished, were it not for the annual Indemnity Bill. All the evils of which we had to complain arose from the absurd notions of toleration and indulgence. He abhorred such terms. He knew of nothing but religious liberty, which was the right inherent in every man to worship God in his own mode. For this he contended, and he thought the Catholics were entitled to it as well as every other sect of Christians, as a matter of right.Mr. W. Smith
 stated, that he had thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he had reason to know that before the declaration of the opinions of the Dissenters upon the subject, that right hon. gent. had determined not to support the Bill of the noble, lord in the other House.Mr. W. Smith
415 thought that no prince had a right to power with respect to a church, unless he had granted temporalities to that church. Mr. Pitt had introduced, it was true, the requisition of a veto; but he had it in contemplation, when he did so, to give a maintenance to the Catholic clergy. This was no narrow sectarian question. It was the Irish nation which petitioned the
415Mr. Tighe
"Turpe mori, post te, solo non posse dolore!"]*387 rose, he said, thus early, under very disadvantageous circumstances, both as following the eloquent and impressive speech of the right hon. mover of the question, and as preceding a right hon. civilian (Dr. Duigenan) whem he saw prepared, with ponderous documents, to speak to the question, and whom he should have been better pleased to have followed, in the view of resisting his arguments. He felt it, nevertheless, his duty to offer himself thus early in the debate, as he was expressly charged with the interests of a most respectable body of English Catholics, who, it would be recollected, had petitioned the House in the course of the last session of parliament, but had not renewed their petition in the present session.—That petition had been signed by eight of the ancient peers of the realm, by thirteen baronets, and by upwards of eight thousand gentlemen and others, of most ancient and respectable families and of approved loyalty, including five Roman Catholic prelates, and nearly 300 of their clergy.—In the apprehension that some allusion might be made to that pe-
"Turpe mori, post te, solo non posse dolore!"]*387Sir J. C. Hippisley
 moved, to refer the Petitions of the weavers of Lancashire (see p. 339) to the consideration of a Select Committee, He expatiated on the hardships to which the Petitioners were subject, and on the policy as well as humanity of endeavouring to afford them relief. From all the information which he had been able to collect, this numerous class of individuals was in a most deplorable situation; and such was their poverty, that they were compelled to bring up their children in complete ignorance, from their inability to afford them education.Colonel Stanley
 supported the motion.Mr. Blackburn
432 said, it was impossible not to feel the greatest disposition to give to the request of the Petitioners every attention which could be conducive to their relief; but, after the most deliberate consideration of the case, he apprehended that it was impossible to hold out to them any expectation of a favourable nature, without exposing them to the certainty of disappointment. He had seen several persons intimately connected with the Petitioners, who had made strong representations to him with regard to the distresses which they experienced; but he found that the remedy, at which they aimed, consisted of regulations in the trade that could not be acceded to, without the production of the greatest inconveniences. They wished for regulations respecting the persons to be admitted into their trade; for regulations respecting the number of apprentices to be allowed; and, in short, for such restraints, as, however they might tend to their immediate relief, must ultimately prove extremely injurious, both to the individual in question and to the trade of the country at large. For himself, he could see no advantage in referring the subject to the consideration of a Committee, as he was persuaded that such a step would merely cherish a fallacious expectation in the minds of those who were concerned. At the same time, if there were any gentlemen who took a different view of the subject, and who could present to the House a probable prospect that the appointment of a Com-
432The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 strongly recommended the appointment of a Committee, to take into consideration the melancholy case of the Petitioners. He conceived it possible, that without consuming much time, such a Committee might discover some mode of affording relief, and he declared that the happiest day of his life would be that in which he should join in such a labour. Many of the persons who were now suffering such distress, would soon, he feared, be employed by the rivals of Great Britain; for it was not to be expected that they could long endure the privations to which they were at present subject, without an attempt to obtain relief; and it was evident that Buonaparté and those who were at the head of other countries, anxious to emulate Great Britain in manufactures, would do all they could to induce our manufacturers to emigrate to those countries. If their miseries could be alleviated by the application from the public purse of a sum of money, however moderate, it might enable them to struggle with misfortune, and would at least afford them time to ascertain whether they must be compelled to betake themselves to other occupations, or whether it was probable that their own trade would so far revive as to afford them the means of support.Sir R. Peel
433 thought it was too hard upon those who were for the appointment of a Committee, to point out the mode by which the Petitioners might be relieved. This must be the result of an examination. Unquestionably several ideas on this sub-
433Mr. Ponsonby
ll434 declared that what the right hon. gent. had said was decisive upon the subject. His right hon. friend had stated, that if a single individual intimated that he conceived relief could be afforded to the petitioners, he should have no objection to the appointment of a Committee. The right hon. gent. opposite having said that several modes by which relief might possibly be afforded had occurred to his mind, he trusted therefore, that there would be but one opinion in the House on the propriety of appointing a Committee. Still, however, he wished to make two or three observations on the subject: a representation similar to the present had been referred to a select Committee three years ago. That Committee had been very constantly and very numerously attended. The subject had undergone the most patient discussion, and the result was, that the Committee were unanimously of opinion that nothing could be done for the persons aggrieved. No one, not even those who resided in the immediate neighbourhood of the petitioners, could be more convinced of their distress than he was. For four or five years he had held a correspondence with them and he had always cautioned them against cherishing the expectation of legislative assistance. The hon. bart, talked of granting them a sum of money. A similar recommendation had been made to him by one of the deputies of the petitioners, with whom he had lately had a conference.—That person mentioned a hundred thousand pounds as a sum that might be serviceable to the petitioners; but as in the same breath he estimated the number of sufferers at five hundred thousand, the House would judge how far such a sum could be available to an evil so extensive. Many misapprehensions had gone abroad as to former circumstances
ll434Mr. Rose
439438 observed, that having on a former occasion stated to the House the reasons that induced him to think that the motion of his hon. and learned friend should be agreed to, he had then to inform the House, that nothing had since occurred to make him alter the opinion he before expressed. The Report, which was then expected from the Committee of the House of Lords, had since been communicated to that House, and appeared to him to contain nothing to prevent the House from going into the Committee moved for by his hon. friend. The measure proposed, of appointing another judge to assist the Lord Chancellor in his Court, he consi-
439438Sir Samuel Romilly
440 said, that they had now before them an account from the Lords, of the causes which had led to the suspension of justice in their House and in the Court of Chancery. In order to obviate the inconvenience in consequence of this, they had entered into a regulation to devote, after this session, a longer attendance to the hearing of causes. There now appeared to be 338 Appeal Causes in arrear. Their lordships had proposed, then, to give up three days in the week, from ten in the morning, till a great number of those arrears were discharged, and two days a week afterwards till they had disposed of them entirely. Many causes had concurred to a delay this session, which were not among the natural or average causes of delay, and therefore could not be considered as likely soon to occur again. He had only to instance the great time which was necessarily occupied in the consideration of the Banbury and Berkeley peerage causes. It had naturally occurred to their lordships, that if they were to sit for the consideration of Writs of Error at ten in the morning, that, of course, a deficiency must occur in the Court of Chancery. They then, in order to remedy this, suggested the creation of an additional judge in the Equity Court, which situation the new judge was to hold during his good behayiour, and not during
440The Chancellor of the Exchequer
441 denied that there was in the statement of the Lords one single satisfactory reason for the delay of justice in the Court of Chancery. The right hon. gent. had said, that the number of motions which had of late been made, might account for the delay. What was the reason, however, of the increase of motions? Why simply, because the attorney or client in a cause could not get the opinion of the court directly on the cause itself; they were glad to come at it by a sidewind, in the way of a motion. Those motions, then, were the effect of the delay, and not the cause. The way proposed, however, to get rid of all these inconveniences, was by the appointment of a third judge; and the right hon. gent. would
441Mr. Ponsonby
 thought that this point would be a subject of enquiry with the Committee now sitting on public offices. The instruction appeared, therefore, unnecessary and exceptionable.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 believed, that the business of that Committee was to enquire into the profits of sinecure offices; and the office of Chancellor could never be considered as a sinecure. If another person was employed to relieve the Chancellor, it was but fit to consider whether that person should be paid by him who was relieved, or by the public. The enquiry, therefore, into the fees and emoluments of office was very necessary.Mr. Ponsonby
 believed, that the powers of the Committee on sinecure offices did not extend to the office of Chancellor. There were some officers about the Chancellor who held sinecure situations, and received large fees, part of which went to the Chancellor. Into these offices the Committee on Sinecures could examine, but not into the emoluments of the Lord Chancellor.Mr. Bankes
 declined pressing his opposition, and the motion was agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
446 rose to propose a Vote of Credit, to the extent of which, he believed, there would be no
446The Chancellor of the Exchequer
454453452 allowed that on a question of supply every gentle-man had a right to introduce whatever topics he thought proper into the discussion. He trusted, however, that the House would excuse him from going at any length, into the details of the various subjects introduced by the hon. gentleman in the Speech he had just delivered, and be content with such observations as he thought it necessary to make upon the most prominent parts of it. When he submitted the Resolution he had just laid on the table to the consideration of the Committee, he had not entertained the slightest idea that the hon. gent. would go into so wide a field of argument on subjects, some of which, according to notice, he meant to bring forward for distinct and specific matter of debate. He could not, therefore, be supposed to come prepared to answer them fully when thus unexpectedly intoduced. With respect to the commercial question, he could only say, that there was no pretence for stating, in consequence of the petitions which had been alluded to, that the system had failed on our part, and that it had succeeded on the part of France. It was by no means fair to infer, that because certain extraordinary circumstances had happened in the course of the commerce of Europe, our trade and manufactures had alone been injured, and that France had not suffered in as great a proportion. This was a question on which many persons of great authority widely differed; and it was at present certainly undetermined. He for his
454453452The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 defended the Orders in Council, and the answers given to the merchants by lords Bathurst and Wellesley.Mr. Rose
455 spoke against the Orders in
455Mr. Baring
 considered that the religion of the Catholics was perfectly secure without the clause of the hon. gent. which would not, if adopted, give any additional security.Lord Castlereagh
 insisted, that the Bill being compulsory, parliament were bound to insure protection to their religious rights, which the order of the commander in chief did not insure, because that order was revocable at pleasure.Mr. Ponsonby
 denied that the Bill provided for the exercise of worship by an order of the commander in chief otherwise than as acted upon in Ireland. The right hon. gent. stated, that five or six other regiments, in addition to the Tipperary, had offered their services, convinced that in England they should be perfectly secure.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 supported the clause, and Mr. Bankes opposed it.Mr. Hutchinson
459 said, that the facts respecting the Roman Catholic chaplains, had been much misconceived. Those chaplains who were appointed to the four regiments of Irish brigade, on the Irish establishment, were commissioned in consequence of a particular provision of the legislature, authorizing the reception of those corps, the officers and men being wholly Catholics, into his Majesty's service. The case of the Glengary regiment, which he had repeatedly mentioned in that House, was very differently circumstanced—it was a regiment raised in Great Britain, and under the ordinary provisions of the Mutiny Act; yet his Majesty's ministers did not scruple to recommend the appointment of a Roman Catholic priest as chaplain to that regiment, whose commission was signed by his Majesty, and gazetted in 1794.—This fact is the more remarkable, as in 1798 the law officers of the crown gave their official opinion, "that advising his Majesty to grant a commission to a Roman Catholic, is a misdemeanor which may be the subject of parliamentary animadversion, supposing it not to be an offence directly punishable by any proceeding in the ordinary courts of justice."459Sir J. H.
436 agreed with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that unless some practical relief was likely to result from the adoption of the motion, they would by agreeing to go into the Committee only excite expectations which would afterwards be disappointed. He for one should object to any relief by a grant of money. The distress was general amongst persons connected with the commerce of the country; and if any enquiry was to be instituted at all, he thought that the Committee should be appointed to examine into the general system of the commerce of the country; and to ascertain whether there was any thing radically wrong in that system to which the distresses of the manufacturing classes could be ascribed. This point had been adverted to in the petitions, where the distresses of the manufacturing classes were in part attributed to the state of our relations with America. The trade with America was that of which alone the enemy could not possibly have deprived this country. He should not, then, assert, whether it might not have been possible so to have regulated our politics, as to have maintained amicable relations and commercial intercourse with America; but, certain he was, that the situation in which we stood with respect to America was that in which the enemy would most desire to see us placed. He thought, also, that if the enquiry could be entered into,
436Mr. A. Baring
 trusted, that the House would enquire into the distresses of the petitioners with a patient attention. Their petitions were such as it was becoming them to present, and their appeal was made to the generosity and liberality of the House. The sons and brothers of many of the persons whose names were signed to these petitions were shedding their blood in the cause of their country; but even their conduct was not more meritorious than the peaceable behaviour of the petitioners under their sufferings. He hoped, therefore, that the House would, by agreeing to the motion, shew that they were ready to enquire whether any relief could possibly be afforded to them.General Tarleton
442 said, that his experience in the Court of Chancery, for twenty two years, had led him to conclude; that the business of that court had greatly increased; and hence, in part, originated the delay complained of. With the Report of the Lords before the House, the proposed enquiry appeared to him ill-timed and improper, and the House ought to suspend their opinion till the measure proposed by their lordships came before them in the shape of a Bill. He paid some high compliments to the talents of the present Lord Chancellor, who was equally distinguished for his enlarged
442Mr. Wilson
 moved the order of the day for resuming the adjourned Debate upon the motion, "That a Committee be appointed to inquire into the causes that retard the Decision of Suits in the High Court of Chancery."Mr. M. A. Taylor
445444443 rose to reply. He observed, that after the unanswerable arguments which his hon. friends had advanced in support of his motion, it would be intruding on the House, were he to occupy much more of their time. The delay in the dispatch of business could not admit of a doubt, and the House of Commons, who were the guardians of public justice, were now called upon to investigate whether those evils were owing to temporary causes, or to some radical defect in the nature and constitution of the tribunal itself? This was all he now asked of them to do. But it had been asserted, that the great increase of business had produced the delay complained of. He denied that there had been any sufficient evidence to prove the actual increase of business. The Report before them did not justify any such issue. It did not follow from any part of that Report, that the business had increased to such a degree as to require an additional judge. The arrear was, no doubt, enormous; but were they sure that the appointment of an additional judge would have the effect of expediting the dispatch of business? He thought, on the contrary, that it would rather contribute to retard it; because the great majority of suitors would
445444443Mr. M A. Taylor
 also moved, that it be an instruction to the Committee to examine into all the fees and emoluments taken by the Lord Chancellor in his jurisdiction of Chancellor, as well as in bankruptcy proceedings.Mr. Taylor
 was of opinion, the Catholics could not exercise their form of worship in many of the counties of England for want of Priests. He believed that the regiment of Tipperary, composed as they were, nine-tenths of Catholics, would not be secure in their worship.General Mathew
 would object to the Committee being authorized to report anything but facts. The House would recollect what inconvenience they and the public had sustained from having had to debate a question for seven days arising out of a committee of last session having exceeded its powers. He wished to avoid a similar inconvenience in a future session, and should not therefore consent to give any powers to this Committee, but to report facts.Mr. Pole Carew
431 report-ed from the Committee, to whom the petition of William Henry Mallison was referred, and who were empowered to report the same, with their observations and opinion thereupon, to the House, together with the Minutes of the Evidence taken before them; That they had examined the matter of the petition; and had directed him to report the same, with several resolution thereupon, to the House; and the resolutions of the Committee were read as follows:431Mr. Whitbread
451450449448447 said, that he should not have offered any observations on the present motion, if he had an expectation that other opportunities would occur before the prorogation, of stating to the House what appeared to him to be of great importance with respect to the interests of the country. It appeared to him that there could no longer be any doubt whether our commercial warfare with Europe and with America had or had not been successful. He was sure that this question was settled beyond all doubt in the minds of the suffering manufacturers, whose petitions had been that day before the House, and whose claims the Chancellor of the Exchequer had very reluctantly allowed to go a Committee. It had been already passed as a resolution by that House, "that since the year 1806, and particularly from the beginning of the year 1807, a system of proscription had been exercised by France which greatly diminished our exports to the continent." As far, then, as regarded the policy of this country with respect to Europe, it appeared, even from the resolution of that House, that the policy of this country had failed; and that the line of policy which France had adopted, as contrasted with our policy, and considered with respect to the objects which the enemy openly avowed, had been fully successful. With respect to America, also, the House had resolved, "that the intercourse with that country was uncertain and interrupted." It must be recollected, that a few years ago we had been told by the authors and advocates of the Orders in Council, that the trade with America would not be muck affected by them; that trade would force its own way; that America would soon see her true interests; and that our intercourse with that country would remain undiminished. America, at that time, told this country, that if she persisted in orders so contrary to the rights of independent nations, she would suspend the intercourse between the two countries. The authors of our Orders in Council anticipated no evils from this measure; but the distresses of our manufacturers now
451450449448447Mr. Whitbread
 asked the right hon. gent. to judge of the effects of their Orders in Council from the petitions on their table from so many thousands of their hitherto flourishing manufacturers? To consider if there could be found any where a body of men more distressed? If in any situation or in any country, they could find a body of industrious and ingenious men more helpless, or hopeless, than they. Then they might plume themselves on their Orders in Council, but not till then.Mr. Whitbread
 entered into an examination of the Report which had been received from the other House of Parliament. The measure of creating another Master of the Rolls would not diminish the business of the Chancellor: it would only increase the number of appeals, for the suitors would be anxious to repair to the last resort, while it would impose a new expence on the public, and give the crown additional patronage. The Court of Chancery, as now constituted, was competent to the dispatch of all its business. What was to hinder the Master of the Roils, for instance, from sitting at the same time with the Chancellor? At present he only sat in the evening. The Report of the Lords, though it stated the number of appeals from Scotland, was extremely defective in not stating how many were received every year, and how many were decided. He knew this fact, that at the time of the union with Ireland, he was employed as counsel in the very last case of appeal that then stood on the roll; and now they were multiplied to the number of 260.Mr. Adam
435 observed, that as it seemed to be admitted on all hands that an investigation into the distresses of the petitioners, with a view to ascertain what practicable relief could be afforded them, ought to
435Mr. Adam
 having the honour to command the regiment alluded to, wished to state, that he had communicated with the officers of his regiment upon the subject, and desired them to state, for the information of the soldiers, the debates upon the measure. The result of that communication was an unanimous desire, on the part of the regiment, to extend their services to England, satisfied that they would experience protection in their worship in the fullest degree.Colonel Bagwell
 contended, that the Catholic soldier had been protected in the exercise of his faith, in consequence of the order of the commander in chief.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 had attended all the Committees which had enquired into this subject since he had the honour of a seat in that House, and the conviction upon his mind was, that no human ingenuity could devise the relief required. When the last report was made, he felt this impression so strongly, that he had given notice of his intention to oppose any motion for laying such petitions in future on the table. But still, as it might be better to agree to the present motion, than to reject the application in a peremptory manner, though he expected no benefit to result from the proceeding, he should consent to go into the Committee, under the impression that it might tend to soothe the feelings of a very meritorious class of subjects.Mr. D. Giddy
437 was fully aware of the danger of exciting, by agreeing to the motion, expectations which might afterwards be disappointed; but there was one circumstance which made him of a decided opinion upon this occasion. He would agree to a going into the Committee, lest their motives should be misinterpreted—lest, if they refused to agree to, the motion, it should be supposed that they were not aware of the extent of the distress. The amount of that distress they could not so clearly ascertain without entering into a grave and solemn enquiry: and, if it should unfortunately, after such enquiry, be found, that no practicable mode of relief could be devised, he wished it, at all events, to be clearly understood by the sufferers, that every attention had been paid to their claims in that House; and that the evil they complained of was not redressed solely because it was beyond the power of that House to remove it. He thought it particularly desirable, that it should be well understood from the first, that they entered into the enquiry not from any certainty of being able to afford
437Mr. Wilberforce
 expressed, on the part of the Catholics of Ireland, some apprehensions as to the security afforded to them by the Bill for the free exercise of their religion, on account of the very few places of Catholic worship in this country. He proposed a clause for appointing Catholic chaplains to the regiments.Mr. Parnell
***457 contended, that the object of the proposed Clause was not the appointment of Roman Catholic chaplains to the several Irish regiments, as was apprehended, but to secure to the Roman Catholic soldier the free exercise of his religious opinions, not only by the permission of attendance, at reasonable times, at the service of his own communion, but to secure him also from a compulsive attendance at the service of the Established Church; and this latter provision he pressed most seriously on the attention of the House, as it militated much stronger against the feelings of Catholics to be compelled to attend such a service, than to be prevented from assisting at their own. The canons of their church; the reserpts of sovereign pontiffs, and the injunctions of their bishops and pastors, were uniformly opposed to their appearance at places of worship of another communion, and these regulations are enforced by the practical censures of their church. If it be contended that Catholics do not complain to their commanding officers, it does not follow that they do not. feel:—complaint on the part of the private soldier, we must be aware, might often expose him to serious difficulties.—The clause moved by his hon. friend was in fact a part of the memorable bill introduced in 1807, by a noble earl (Grey) who now enjoyed a seat in another House, and we know that the only avowed objection taken to that bill was the unlimited extent of a provision to empower his Majesty to grant military
***457Sir J. C. Hippisley
 supported the clause.Sir John Newport
 thought, that, as the hon. brat, opposite had stated it as his opinion that it would be gratifying to the feelings of the petitioners to accede to this motion, that consideration alone ought to be sufficient to weigh with the House. He was decidedly of opinion, that any grant of money ought to be deprecated; but he thought that the relief might be rendered effectual, if the manufacturers should be enabled to send the articles on their hands to a market not now accessible to them. He threw out this suggestion for the information of the House generally, because he knew that a measure of the description he alluded to had been successfully adopted in a case of similar distress in Ireland. At all events, by going into the Committee they would shew the petitioners, that they were ready to do every thing in their power for their relief.Sir John Newport
463 said, that he rose with considerable pain and reluctance on the present occasion, as the motion which it fell to his lot to make, deeply affected the honour and reputation of a Member of that House. The circumstances were attended with considerable notoriety, and were briefly as follows: an elector of Stafford, a Mr. Peter Batty, had applied to a member of that House, desiring to know how he should obtain the discharge of a marine, and had been told, that, on giving fifty guineas to the hon. member, the business should be effected: this practice was understood to be perfectly legal and common, and the sum desired was given. Some time after, an application was made respecting the discharge of the marine, and the hon. member said, that the money had been transmitted through the regular channels, and that the man would be immediately discharged, which, however, was not the case, and on more minute enquiry, it was found that the fifty guineas, instead of being applied to the purposes for which they were intended, were paid in discharge of an account to a grocer at Wimbledon! Upon this, the person who had intrusted this sum to the hon. member had preferred an indictment against him in the Epiphany session, 1809, in the county of Surry, but the hon. member did not think proper to appear to the indictment. The elector of Stafford had then applied for a warrant to
463Mr. Lockhart
 approved of the suggestion of the Speaker, and moved, "That Mr. Richard Mansell Philipps be required to attend in his place upon tomorrow se'n-night;" which was agreed to.Mr. Lockhart
 said, he should have made no observation on the subject, after having seconded the motion, but from what had fallen from the right hon. gent. who had just sat down, that his noble colleague had not substantiated the charges he formerly brought forward. The reason of this was obvious; the noble lord had never had an opportunity given him to substantiate his charges. He had pledged himself to prove them at the bar of the House, but his motion for a committee was negatived.Sir Francis Burdett
469 said, that when abuses in the Vice-Admiralty Courts abroad were detected, measures were always taken to rectify them, and proceedings were at present pending against three of those courts. But he defied the noble lord to point cut any impropriety in the Admiralty Courts at home. After the minutest
469Mr. Rose
 said, the right hon. gent. who spoke last had allowed abuses existed; he did not know whether it was so or not, but he knew several officers of the navy of the highest character, who complained loudly that there were, and this was in his opinion good ground for granting the present motion.Mr. Lyttleton
 denied that the prisoners of war had been neglected.Mr. Rose
 here called the noble lord to order. He was proceeding to set the noble lord right as to some supposed mistake respecting lord Melville, when a general cry of Chair! Chair! called upMr. Hope
 then apologized for the liberty he had inadvertently taken, and sat down.Mr. Hope
482481480479478 said, that however full and complete in his own mind were the grounds upon which he meant to rest what he had to offer in answer to the speech and motion of the noble lord, and however satisfactory they might appear to the minds of others, yet all he had to say lay within so narrow a compass, and was of a nature so clear and obvious, that it would not be necessary for him to trespass at any considerable length upon the attention of the House. And first, he was anxious to assure the noble lord, that in what should fall from him he would not be at all influenced by any desire to shake off from himself or his colleagues the smallest portion of that responsibility in which they stood constitutionally bound to the House and to the country. He wished it to be distinctly understood, that the recommending the appointment of his royal highness the duke of York to the command of the army, was an act for which, be it right or be it wrong, his Majesty's servants were collectively and individually responsible, in fact as well as in law; and he was the more anxious to make this statement, because there seemed to have been something like an attempt to have it supposed
482481480479478The Chancellor of the Exchequer
483 did not think the right honourable gentleman who had just sat down could justify his own conduct in recommending to the Prince Regent to replace the duke of York in the situation of Commander in Chief, against the Resolutions standing on the Journals of the House, unless he was prepared to say that the duke of York was the only fit person in the country to fill the situation of Commander in Chief. When the House purposed agreeing to a Resolution, on the subject of the conduct of his royal highness, the natural consequence of which must be to cause the dismissal of his royal highness, when to prevent the adoption of such a Resolution, his royal highness himself gave in his resignation; and when the House then came to a Resolution, declaring that his royal highness having resigned, it was no longer necessary for them to proceed in the enquiry, was not this saying that it was his resignation alone which
483Lord Althorpe
485 said, in bringing forward the address which he had submitted to
485Mr. Bathurst
486 declared that he would not give a silent vote on the present occasion. Since the period when the inquiry on this subject was before the House, circumstances had occurred which tended materially to alter the situation of things, to diminish that degree of blame
486Sir Oswald Moseley
494 thought it necessary for him to take his share of responsibility upon this occasion, and state shortly his reasons for advising the reappointment. Much labour, however, had been spared him by what had fallen from his right hon. friend, (Mr. Bathurst). His right hon. friend had truly stated, that no resolutions which passed the House, or which had any chance of being agreed to, implied that the duke of York was never at any future time to return to an official situation. It had, indeed, been expressly stated by the right hon. gent. at that time, that
494Mr. Secretary Ryder
496 said, that the question, whether sufficient responsibilty did or did not attach to persons of the elevated rank of his royal highness, was a question foreign to the present business, and which should now be dismissed from the consideration of the House. His hon. friend (Mr. Whit-bread) had argued with still more than his usual force on the injustice that humble individuals would sustain from having the return to power shut against them when it was open to a royal duke under circumstances precisely similar. There certainly could not, on the other hand, be any reason why injustice should be done to the duke of York, because justice was not always done to others. He felt perfectly convinced, that if any other person was presented to the consideration of the House under the very same circumstances that the duke of York stood, he should vote for his re-appointment. He believed that the noble mover had, as he expressed it, felt this a very painful task. A painful task had devolved upon them all; and he could not, without great pain, reflect upon the violent proceedings against the duke of York, and upon the votes which he had himself been persuaded to give. He had at that time voted on a conviction that was then strong in his mind, that a more complete investigation of the charges was necessary. If he had, however, then been called upon to say, "guilty, or not guilty,"—not withstanding the many suspicions, and unexplained circumstances in these transactions—notwithstanding it appeared that pecuniary embarrassments had urged him to the very brink of criminality, yet be should have said, "not guilty." He certainly then wished that the duke should be removed from his office; and he did not know, but that the fear that ministers intended to retain him, might have induced him to stronger votes than he otherwise would have concurred in. He conceived that the duke had been very hardly dealt with; he had been run down by a public cry, and charged with peculation, when, in fact, the crime which he had really committed, was one not of public cognizance, and such a crime as no other man had been removed from an high situation for committing. As to what was the opinion of the House formerly, he thought there could be no better mode of ascertaining it, than hearing what was now the opinion of the same House of Commons upon that question. The opinion" of gentlemen at that time might be
496Mr. Lambe
499498497 said he had not seen any thing in the circumstances which had been so often alluded to, to make him at all change that opinion which he formerly expressed by his vote. A right hon. gent, had stated, that the conspiracy which had since been proved, had thrown a shade over the whole of the case, and deprived the witnesses of any title to credit. He could not. at all view the subject in that light. While the investigation was going on, he always felt, that the evidence of such a woman as Mrs. Clarke ought to be left wholly out of their consideration, un-less when it was confirmed by other evidence. There were many strong points of the case, however, which were proved without the testimony of Mrs. Clarke. The case of Kennet did not at all stand on the evidence of Mrs. Clarke. It stood on the testimony of a witness of the highest character (colonel Taylor) and upon the duke's own letters. The cases of general Clavering and Mr. Tonyn did not stand upon the evidence of Mrs. Clarke, but upon the Duke's own hand-writing. If the case of Kennett were single and unaccompanied by any other, he was of opinion, that it would be sufficient to prove decided corruption, and to call for the censure of the House. It was corruption, though not strictly corruption in office. It was not upon this account the less criminal. Although the Duke might not have trafficked promotion in the army for money, yet if it appeared that he had trafficked the interest that his situation gave him for money, he was unfit to hold a high place in the state. He would venture to say, that if any one of his Majesty's ministers had been detected in a transaction like that of Kennett's case, in attempting for a sum of money to procure a place for any individual, that minister would be prosecuted for it with the utmost severity. The hon. gent. who spoke last, had said, that pecuniary distresses had urged the Duke to the very brink of criminal conduct. It was his opinion, that they had urged him beyond the brink, and involved him in practices actually criminal. For such practices as those, in a man in high trust, he thought it was no excuse at all to set up the weakness and frailty of human nature.
499498497Mr. Wynn
501500 said he would detain the House very shortly, while he assigned his reasons for the vote he, should give that
501500Mr. Ponsonby
504503And such a man was I—Hold up his hands, and wonder;To do such deeds as make the prosperous man.Whom tempting fiends would pitch uponOne whom distress has spited with the world.'Who has seen better days;et cetera502 said, he should feel great satisfaction, if any injury had been done by his means to any person, in endeavouring to do ail in his power to remedy it. But in the present case, as he still continued to see it in the same light in which he had formerly done, and as he had formerly given his vote by no means on the evidence of that witness who had been so much spoken of that night, and who, he would say, was never looked upon in the House as a witness of credibility, he could see no ground for opposing the present motion. He was convinced, that had the honourable member in whom the accusation of the duke of York originated, been unsupported in that accusation by any additional evidence to that, which he possessed at the commencement of the proceedings, he would have retired disgraced and stultified. But it so happened, that a mass of evidence, written and oral, was produced in a manner almost accidental, he might even say, almost miraculous. That testimony remained untouched. It therefore was a source of astonishment to him to hear gentlemen state generally, that their opinion on the case was changed, without advancing any one circumstance to warrant that change, except the decreased credibility of a witness on
504503And such a man was I—Hold up his hands, and wonder;To do such deeds as make the prosperous man.Whom tempting fiends would pitch uponOne whom distress has spited with the world.'Who has seen better days;et cetera502Sir Francis Burdett
508 observed, that it required a strong case indeed to justify a parliamentary censure of the executive government in the ordinary exercise of their constitutional functions. That the power of appointing to the high offices of state belonged constitutionally to the Crown would not be denied; neither would it be said that the exercise of that power could with propriety be called in question, unless it appeared that there was something wrong, or a suspicion of something wrong, in the appointment. The question then was, whether that House was to pass a censure upon the advisers of the late appointment, or upon the object of it, by concurring in the motion. If on the latter, what, he would ask, became of all the arguments of those, who, in the most vindictive votes which they had formerly supported, denied that they had supported any Resolution which would amount to a perpetual exclusion of the duke of York from the office of Commander-in-Chief? If it was not right that his royal highness should be appointed now, when a vacancy had occurred in the office, at what time would it be right? If after two years of expiation he ought not to be restored to office, after what period of expiation ought he be restored into an office for which he had more than common talents? It had been argued, that it formed an additional ground of censure, that the Prince Regent had been advised to make this appointment during the sitting of the same parliament which had passed the previous Resolutions on the subject of the duke of York's conduct; yet so far was he from concurring in this opinion, that he thought the circumstance an extenuation, if the act even were censurable. It was undoubtedly an extenuating circumstance, that, advising the appointment, ministers
508Mr. Canning
, who said that the observations of the hon. member did not appear to him to apply to any question of order, and to such only could he then speak.The Speaker
464 observed, that as the hon. member had brought forward a very grave case, deeply affecting the reputation of a member of that House, who was absent, it would be more regular, before the petition was presented, to give an opportunity to that member to be present, by appointing
464The Speaker
 begged to suggest to the hon. member, that if the Address for the production of those Papers had been presented (and he understood it was), this motion would come too late. It would only be in the power of the House to impound the Papers, so as to prevent their contents from being known, or to present another Address to the Prince Regent on the subject. Perhaps the best plan would be to prevent the Papers from being printed in the present session.The Speaker
487 was desirous to state his reasons for the vote he should give, standing as he did in a particular situation, and having partaken of the general feeling at the time of the inquiry. He had then laboured under an impression since removed, that some degree of blame attached to his royal highness. He then
487General Tarleton
488 said it was allowed on all hands that the army was now brought to a state of perfection it had never before reached, and that the duke of York had the principal share of the merit. Exclusion
488Mr. C. Adams
 said, that he did not mean to object to the production of the greater part of the papers moved for by the noble lord. His motion seemed to charge with extortion the persons connected with the Admiralty Court of Malta; and certainly The prima facie appeared to justify it, and some reform might be necessary in some of the departments, which induced him to acquiesce in the general features of the noble lord's motion; but some difficulty might exist in the production of one or two of the papers he moved for, as they possibly implicated some private correspondence, which it would be improper to produce. Many of the papers moved for must be brought from Malta; and therefore it would be impossible that the investigation could take place this session; and he hoped the noble lord would, on examination, if he found just ground, persevere in his motion, as it was certainly highly proper for the dignity of the House and the doe management of the affairs of the country, that a remedy should be applied to those evils, if they existed.Mr. Yorke
 never having had an opportunity of delivering his opinion on the charges against his royal highness, begged to be indulged with a few words on the present motion. The noble lord who opened the business had said, that the royal duke had not been punished by being removed from his office. Was it no punishment to a man of a feeling mind to be removed out of the sphere in which he was accustomed to move, and in which he presumed to think his services had been, and might still continue to be useful? Could any man of an honourable mind submit to such a sentence, and not feel himself thereby lessened, not only in the estimation of the world, but in that of himself? Let any man put himself in that situation, and then he would be able to judge how great the punishment was. Had it not been publicly declared, and publicly proved, that this was effected through the means of a wicked conspiracy? We had lately seen it practically illustrated what our armies could do, and could we deny that to the duke of York was to be attributed, in a considerable degree, the merit of the state of discipline to which they had been brought. Those who recollected our army on its narrow establishment, and now saw it on its enlarged scale, would be the best able to judge of this; and when no man could deny, that to the duke of York was this in a great measure owing, must we not feel exultation at seeing him restored to a situation he so richly deserved!Admiral Harvey
467466465 rose to make the motion of which he had give notice. The noble lord began by stating that he had before had occasion to trouble the House on this subject, but he then failed in his attempt to obtain justice, on the ground that there was not sufficient evidence of the facts stated to warrant the House in entertaining his motion. He had since however personally been at Malta, and had procured such a chain of evidence, that if the House should now be pleased to entertain his motion, he had no doubt but he should be able to lay before them such a connected string of evidence of flagrant abuses in the Vice-Admiralty Court at the Island of Malta, as would astonish all who heard it He would undertake to prove, that if the Court of Admiralty at home would do their duty one third of the naval force now employed in the Mediterranean would be sufficient for all purposes for which it was employed there, and that a saving might be made in the naval service alone of at least five millions sterling a year. If the Committee for which he moved last year had been granted, the evidence to prove this might now have been before the House. The noble lord then read a letter from a captain of a vessel at the Cape of Good Hope, complaining" that the officers of ships of war were so pillaged by those of the Vice-Admiralty Courts, that he wished to know how they could be relieved; whether they could be allowed the liberty to send their prizes home, and how far the jurisdiction of the Vice Admiralty Court extended, for that the charges of that Court were so exorbitant, it required the whole amount of the value of a good prize to satisfy them. In the case of one vessel that was sold for eleven thousand rupees, the charges amounted to more than ten thousand. This was the case at Penang, Malacca, and other places, as well as at the Cape. He would not, however, wish to dwell on this, but put it to the feelings of the House, whether naval officers had any stimulus to do even their duty, when the prizes they took would not pay the fees of the Vice-Admiralty Courts-merely
467466465Lord Cochrane
470 stated, that having complained to the Admiralty here of a grievance in being obliged to submit to exorbitant charges in the prosecution of a prize cause at Malta, the opinions of the Attorney and Solicitor General and other lawyers, had been pat into his hands, purporting that his plan was to apply to the Judge at Malta. He wrote to the Judge accordingly, who referred him to the Proctor, as he did not choose to enter into private correspondence with suitors in causes before him. He then wrote to the Proctor, who sent for answer that it was unprecedented to demand a bill to be taxed that had been paid so long ago as 1808; so that he thought his having got the money a good reason for not parting with it. He then wrote to the Judge, but got no answer; and this was the redress he got in the quarter where the crown Jaw officers had advised him to apply. The noble lord further observed, that in opposition to the act of the 45th of the King, the Judge at Malta had not only established, but altered the table of fees. An allusion had been made to the spirited conduct of the judge; but he had affidavits of captain Maxwell and others, who were present, that the Judge had admitted that he had no proof of the crime for which he (lord C.) had been sent to gaol. Against him, however, he would proceed in another way, unless he should find it necessary to call for the interference of the House to bring this Judge home.
470Lord Cochrane
510ll509 observed, that it was not his
510ll509Mr. Wardle
 rejoiced that he had this opportunity of retracting and confessing those errors under which he, with many others, laboured some time ago, from the delusion which then prevailed. He regarded the duke of York as a most injured man, and therefore rejoiced at the opportunity now afforded of making some amends for the injustice that had been done him. The duke had been censured with a severity beyond example. The hon. gent, said he was not one of those who went farthest in their votes against the duke of York, and he was one who fortunately escaped those delirious thanks that were voted to so many hon. gentlemen from one end of the country to the other. But he would now do all in his power to repair the injustice that had been done, thinking that the dignity of a public body, as well as that of an individual, consisted in acknowledging an error, not in persisting in it. The noble lord had talked of the appointment being an attack on the dignity of the House; but to confess an error was not to descend from dignity, but rather to maintain it. The example of what took place two years ago, ought to operate as a warning to the House to be on their guard against such sudden gusts of public opinion as then prevailed. When the public mind was fixed and permanent on any subject, then that House should follow its guidance, but should not too rapidly follow on every sudden impulse. In fact, there appeared to exist at the time, a sort of epidemic disorder, a species of Puritan mania; as if that House were to be the censors of private life, as well as of official conduct: a part for which they Were entirely unfit. For his part, he wished the noble lord's motion should not merely meet with a negative, but that some resolution should be adopted expressive of a desire to do justice to the character of a man who, he verily believed, had been grossly injured.Mr. Barham
 congratulated the House and the country that so many opinions had been changed with regard to his royal highness the duke of York. It was candid in those who saw the developement of many subsequent facts to confess the delusion under which they had acted. His royal highness was popular with every individuals I of our brave army, and it was a just tribute to them, as well as an act of justice to this illustrious personage, to replace him in his office, when it did appear that he had paid a deference of his own free choice to public opinion, which public opinion had been much ruined. The same House of Commons, which by a triumphant majority had voted him free from corruption, would gratify all but Jacobins and enemies to the glory of Great Britain and Ireland, should hey now reinstate his royal highness, and place him at the head of that army, to the good organization and credit of which he had so much contributed. The country was ready to throw the veil of oblivion on what it was the duty and interest of the country to forget; and the Regent, who uniced the people at large into one family, was well advised by his ministers to give his royal protection to the duke of York, who had alone dismissed himself from his situation, and whose services were so universally acknowledged while he filled the office of Commander in Chief.Mr. R. Thornton
493492491490489 contended that the evidence remained unshaken and uncontradicted. Among the many things which had excited his surprise in the course of the debate, one was, the different view in which the minutes of evidence seemed now to be taken. Was the House to be told that the minutes had undergone no change—that they were the same—precisely and distinctly the same, as when the House seemed to have but one feeling, whatever they might now determine by their vote, on the guilt of the duke of York? to the astonishment of the House, as he was convinced it must be, the minutes would be proved to be the same. No change had taken place there; and the hon. members who had thought so lightly of changing their opinions, could find no encouragement for it in any alteration of the evidence. He had unfortunately felt the impossibility of changing his opinion, while there appeared no apology for a change; and he must actually persist in believing the duke of York unfit for office, and the ministers who re-appointed him as acting in a mariner irregular, indecorous, and unconstitutional, so long as the minutes of evidence told him so. There was a practice of the right hon. the (Chancellor of the Exchequer), for which he probably claimed great credit, if it was to be thought so, from his fondness for it: it was a kind of bold, strutting, noisy claim of responsibility—an effort at what he called manfully meeting the charge, or claiming his share in the odium and danger of the acts of the ministry. His habit was, to throw himself forward when the public indignation was roused, and talk of his readiness to meet responsibility, and all possible enquiry into his conduct. His colleagues, too, were ardent and zealous, and equally ready in offering to meet the extremity of the public anger: but when this spirit, magnanimous as it was, came to be tried—when an offence was committed against the constitution—when the cry for justice was stem and strong and just, then those magnanimous ministers shrunk back, and hid themselves behind their majority, and baffled the attempt at enquiry. And was this really
493492491490489Mr. Whitbread
 said, that if the official correspondence did not clear up the case, he would move for further papers if no one else did.Mr. Whitbread
, having made inquiries as to the state of the prisoners at war, thought it his duty to mention the result, which was, that they were as healthy even at Dartmoor, as persons placed in the most favourable situations.Mr. Brand
484 said, that into a subject of so painful a nature it was not his intention to enter, or to use many arguments in support of the opinion he felt himself bound to give. He should only shortly state a few of the reasons for his vote of that night—and even this was hardly necessary, as it would be conformable with his vote on the main question. He could conceive that there might be persons whose opinions had undergone a change in consequence of some recent developements. These, to his mind, however, rather went to an extenuation of guilt than to a complete change of the nature and extent of the charge. If there were men who thought as he had described, they had a right to change their opinions. With respect to himself, however, he had no need of experiencing such a change. With him, the persons who had sunk so much in favour, never stood so high, as, in his mind, to leave them much room to fall. There had not, in his opinion, been any evidence against his royal highness of corruption, or of accession to corruption. He did not vote, therefore,
484Mr. W. Elliot
507 shortly stated his reasons for voting in support of the motion. His opinion of the misconduct of the duke of York was not so much founded on the testimony of the prominent witness, as on the collateral circumstances which unexpectedly came out during the inquiry; The discrediting of Mrs. Clarke's testimony, therefore, did not affect the vote he gave on that occasion. He agreed that his royal highness had already suffered a severe punishment, and he did not wish for his perpetual exclusion. His objections to the re-appointment lay within a small compass: the principal one was, that it was unadvisable, because with the vote which stood on the Journals of the
507Mr. W Smith
462 rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given last night, to move for the rescinding of the motion for the production of papers relative to the colony of Sierra Leone, which had been made by an hon. gent. That motion had been made without any previous notice, and was for the production of papers, some of which would be unintelligible without others, and some contained gross and libellous matter against persons in this country, who were extremely anxious for the most minute investigation, and would have been happy if the hon. gent. could have gone into the enquiry this year, but as the session was so far advanced, there was little prospect
462Mr. W. Smith
506505 did not feel astonished that the hon. baronet should take up the case of his royal highness the Commander in Chief, in the manner he had done, and consider it as unaltered, notwithstanding what had passed since the House came to their former determination; neither was he surprised that the hon. baronet should conceive, that were the testimony of Mrs. Clarke to be expunged altogether from the evidence, the culpability of his royal highness would appear to him to be not less distinctly proved. He, however, fancied, there were few who entertained similar opinions to the hon. baronet, on this subject—opinions which he had not the least inclination to attempt to shake. There were those, however, who were inclined to support the motion of the noble lord, on the ground, that the re-appointment of his royal highness to the office of Commander in Chief, was in defiance of the recorded opinion of, and disrespectful to, the House of Commons, and in direct opposition to the opinion of the public. He, however who thought that it was neither of these, must be allowed to say a few words on the subject. And in the first place, how could it be called disrespectful to the House No one had ventured to contend that such an appointment ought to have received the sanction of parliament. It therefore came to this, that there must be something on the journals declaratory against the propriety or expediency of such re-appointment. But where was this? It had been already shewn by his right hon. friend, that no record of this kind was in existence. Unquestionably, an opinion of that nature pervaded the speeches of some hon. members during the investigation, but there was some difference between the opinions of a few individuals and the vote of the
506505Mr. Manners Sutton
l468 (King's Advocate.) while he admitted with the first Lord of the Admiralty, that the cafe as it stood at present, called for inquiry, thought proper at the same time to state, in the absence
l468Sir John Nicholl
 disapproved of the motion of the noble lord, and was of opinion that his Majesty's ministers were entitled to a vote of approbation for advising the Prince Regent to restore his royal highness. It would, in his opinion, have been rather an act of ministerial cowardice (if he might so express himself) to have abstained from giving that advice. His royal highness was better qualified for the situation than any other man, added to which, there was not a man in the army who did not almost worship him. With respect to the imputations on his moral character, he lamented as much as any man the necessity for those imputations, but it would become the House to recollect that the charges were established by as profligate a set of witnesses as had ever disgraced a public tribunal.Mr. Gooch
477476 proceeded, in continuation,
477476Lord Milton
purilo-mania had but a few words to address to the House. An hon. member had said, that he was rejoiced that this motion had been brought forward, as it would give the House an opportunity to retrace its steps, and atone for its former error. He was glad to give that hon. gent, this satisfaction. The hon. member had asserted too, that during the former proceedings there was a kind of fever in the public mind, a purilo-maniaLord Milton
475474473472471 rose to submit his promised motion on the subject of the reappointment of the Duke of York to the office of Commander in Chief. In undertaking this duty, which he felt himself little competent to discharge, he heartily wished that the matter had been taken up by some member of longer experience and greater weight in the House. This was a subject deserving of the most serious attention of the House of Commons. If the two Houses of Parliament were at all competent to controul the execution of the public business, the matter which he now brought before them, imperiously called for their interference. If in any case the appointment of public officers ought to be inquired into, and animadverted upon, it was in a case of this description. It must be in the recollection of the House, that it had been on a former occasion engaged in a long and laborious discussion relative to the illustrious person who had lately been reinstated in the office of Commander in Chief. It must be in the recollection of the House, how the discussion had terminated: it must be in its recollection, what motions had been made on the subject, both those which had been negatived, and those which remained on the Journals. It was not his intention to enter at all into the evidence
475474473472471Lord Milton
, pursuant to notice, moved, That a Committee be appointed to examine and state the Account of Parish Apprentices bound within the Bills of Mortality, and report the same to the House.Mr. Wilbraham Booth
518 expressed his regret, that a Bill, on this subject had not been prepared at an earlier period of the session, and commented with much feeling on the deplorable state of many of those orphans, and the abuses, which prevailed from the maladministration of the existing laws. There was no subject which had a more powerful claim on the interference of the House, nor any in which that interference was likely to be productive of more good. There were several abuses which it was in his power to enumerate, but he should confine himself to a few of the most prominent ones. It was the practice of some of the parishes to bind a great number of apprentices at the distance of 2 or 300 miles from town, where they were deprived of all hope of ever seeing their parents again, or if "they attempted it, were in danger of being taken up as vagrants in some of the parishes through which they might travel. This was to be lamented, for every thing good in human character arose from the cultivation of that natural affection which subsisted between parents and children, and other amicable feelings of this kind. The consequences resulting from binding such a number of apprentices to one person, were very bad. He knew a recent instance of a man in Manchester, who had become a bankrupt, and no less than 200 parish apprentices bound to him, were, on his failure, marched oft" in a body to the workhouse. He was sorry to learn that there were so many objections urged against the Bill in contemplation, and he hoped the subject would be fully and maturely discussed. Among other evils attendant on the present disposal of parish
518Sir Samuel Romilly
 said, that this subject had engaged much of his attention some years ago, and he had introduced some measures into the House relative to it. The abuses complained of were not confined to large establishments, as stated by the hon. and learned gentleman, where, on the contrary, it was the interest of the masters to derive benefit from the labour of the apprentices, rather than to destroy them, as they received them without a premium. Nor could he agree with him in what he slated about the evil of the apprentices being torn from their parents, for in fact, they had no parents who owned them, but they were thrown on the parish. If the number of apprentices in the large manufactories was limited, it would be productive of considerable injury to individuals, and the country at large.Sir R. Peel
526525524523522521520 observed, that, according to the course of proceeding adopted by the House in the present session, orders of the day were to have precedence of motions on his day; still however, be felt a conviction, that the motion which he had to make, a motion recognising the merits of the general, the officers and the gallant army engaged in the glorious battle of Albuera, would be allowed by the House to take precedence of any other business. (Hear, hear.) He colleted from this cheer an admission on the pan of the House, and should therefore proceed. Now again be felt himself placed in the situation, in which he had imposed upon on him the agreeable duty, which several times during the present session he had had to perform, of presenting to the consideration of the House the eminent services of the British and allied armies—services which had been so frequently crowned with the most signal and brilliant success He had again to bring under the notice, and recommend to the attention and approbation of that House, the meritorious conduct of the officers and men of that army, who had so nobly distinguished themselves in the glorious cause in which they were engaged—the defence of the oppressed people of the Peninsula against the most grinding system of tyranny and oppression to which any nation had ever been exposed. He had on this happy occasion to enrol upon the illustrious list of those heroes who had signalized their valour and skill in their country's service, the names of general Beresford, who so ably commanded the
526525524523522521520The Chancellor of the Exchequer
528527 rose to second the motion. He expressed his conviction, that every man would rejoice, after the laborious efforts which general Beresford had bestowed on the creation and disciplining of the army, to find that he was rewarded by an opportunity of proving his valour in the field. With respect to the action itself, it was only necessary to follow the detail of the gallant officer, to admire it; but there was a difficult military question to be decided before the battle, for which he was entitled to the greatest merit. Lord Wellington was enabled to shew a force both at Badajoz and Almeida to the enemy, and it was for general Beresford to decide whether he would wait for the reinforcement which he knew to be coming, or act with promptitude upon the moment, trusting to his own measures. He took the manly and the judicious step. When they looked to the battle itself, they would perceive that the chief stress was on the right wing; and the House was aware in what a narrow space the conflict was decided—no less than 7,000 individuals lying upon the ground. The extent of that struggle might perhaps be measured by the numbers which were lost, numbers only equalled by those at the battle of Assay, considering those engaged. But if they wished to form an opinion upon proper grounds, let them look to the intercepted letter of the enemy; to the circumstances of the retreat, to the fact of the British army being in possession of the field, and general Beresford being enabled to advance a corps upon the retreating enemy. He complimented the ability by which the siege of Badajoz was raised, and though he could not avoid regretting, when he recollected that British
528527Lord Castlereagh
 said, that though he believed there was no instance in which that House expressed its thanks to the allies, unless when they acted under officers of our own, yet the nature of the present contest justified, he thought, a deviation from that rule: and, upon this ground he should move, "That this House doth highly acknowledge the distinguished valour and intrepidity displayed by the Spanish army under the command of his excellency general Blake, on the 16th of May last, in the glorious battle at Albuera."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 next moved, "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions, that a Monument be erected in the cathedral church of Saint Paul, London, to the memory of major-general Daniel Hoghton, who fell gloriously on the 16th of May last in the battle at Albuera, which terminated in the signal defeat of the enemy's forces; and to assure his royal highness, that this House will make good the expense attending the same."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
531 begged leave to offer a few words with respect to the conduct of that gallant officer, who had acquitted himself worthily in all situations, both as a soldier and as an accomplished gentleman. He had devoted his life to the most active services, and visited every climate in the pursuit of that glory which his profession held up to his view. He had commanded a brigade at Martinique, and on his return from that country exerted himself to get employment under that illustrious general, his friend lord Wellington, whose greatness he had foreboded at an early period. In his last conversation with him, he had stated it as his distinct opinion, that on no account should England relinquish the
531Mr. G. S Rose
 adverted to the memory of the lamented general Mackenzie. The circumstances of his death, in the battle of Talavera, were precisely similar to those attendant on the fall of general Hoghton. He thought therefore that as their rank was the same, and that their deaths had been alike glorious, their names should live in the equal testimonies of their country's gratitude.Mr. Villiers
 admitted the full force of the observation just made; but there was a line of distinction which regulated the grant of honours, independent of the equal' claim upon the score of merit. What that was, as applicable to the present instance, he confessed himself then unable to state accurately. He should take care to make himself better acquainted with the distinction—and till he did, he should suggest to his right hon. friend the propriety of waving all further discussion on the claims of that much-to-be-lamented officer.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 acquiesced in the propriety of this suggestion.Mr. Villiers
 was glad the observation had been thrown out by his hon. friend. He had long thought that there would be great use in that House noticing and recording every splendid instance of individual valour, however low the rank of the person.Mr. Abercromby
532 spoke to the same effect. At the same time that there must necessarily be some general limit which, whatever might be its latitude, might yet bear hard in its exclusive operation—there were instances however, that might well be admitted as exceptions; of which there surely could not be one more touching and
532Mr. Canning
546545544543542541540539538537536535534533 in pursuance of his notice, rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:—Sir; the wish for a secure and honourable peace must be general; but no one, at this moment, believes in the possibility of its attainment; nay, all agree in the necessity of continuing the war. Those who, till lately, shared in the universal panic which the unrivalled success, for many years, of the French arms on the continent had produced, are; now considerably shaken in their first impressions, and inclined to hope where they had once despaired. Those who, with myself, never swerved from the opinion, that this nation possessed great military power, though they have lamented, and still continue to lament, the too frequent misapplication of that power, and the inadequacy of our exertions, cannot but most heartily rejoice in any event which demonstrates the gallantry and efficiency of our troops, however they may consider such events as indecisive of ultimate success, and only as positive proofs of the capability of the empire—proofs, however, not requisite to establish, though they afford a noble confirmation of our long-acknowledged character for national intrepidity.546545544543542541540539538537536535534533Mr. Hutchinson,
548547 said, it was not his intention to take up much of the time of the House. He assured the hon. gent. that in what he bad formerly stated respecting the views entertained by his Majesty's government, he had never designed to undervalue the force and the power of the enemy. It had never been in his contemplation to represent the French army as degraded, but upon comparing it in the state to which it was reduced by recent events, with that degree of estimation in which was before
548547The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in reply stated, that he did not propose this motion for the purpose of calling forth any explanation from ministers of their plan of proceeding, but merely to point out, that they were pursuing a plan in the Peninsula, that would tend to the ruin of this country. He felt it therefore his duty to protest against the manner they were carrying on that contest, without comparing the present ministers to former ministers, or giving any offence to the right hon. gent. and his colleagues. Ha was still convinced that our victories would lead to nothing, however much he united in sentiments that had been slated that night in favour of lord Wellington, who, whether he had been so successful or not, was fully entitled to the confidence of the country. If they suffered the French to collect a force, and not speedily meet them now, all the talent" of lord Wellington, and the bravery of British troops, might be in vain called forth to prevent us being driven out of the Peninsula.Mr. Hutchinson
551550549 on rising, declared, that if he thought there was any prospect of obtaining a fuller attendance at this period of the session, for the consideration of the motion of which had given notice, he would cheerfully consent to delay it. But when no such expectation was likely to be realized, it was not from any desire to interfere with the recent regulations of the House, that he must persevere in bringing the subject immediately under discussion. It would be recollected that he had enquired of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer early in the session whether it was his intention to introduce any clause into the Regency Bill for the purpose of making a provision in
551550549Mr. Whit bread,
553552 had no hesitation in saying, that if the honourable gentleman meant to propose permanent means for supplying any occasional incapacity in the executive in future, nothing was more inexpedient, nothing more improper. If any period was proper for this, it was not surely that in which the crown was incapacitated. He would, indeed, go farther, and say, that it was improper, prospectively, at any time to lay down rules for every future recurrence, and that it was better that parliament should leave the consideration of the question to the government, that it might establish a remedy itself. The farthest that he should be inclined to go, would be a provision for parliament to meet within a given time after the recurrence. This, in his opinion, was the utmost extent to which it was proper to go. But if it was thought that the provisions to be adopted, might vary infinitely according to the existing circumstances, it would be vain to think of anticipating all those circumstances so as prospectively to establish a government fitted to each particular case. He thought that the country bad had enough of experience already, and that whatever regulation future circumstances might make it necessary to adopt, might be effected with very slight variations from the plans already acted upon. All the details, however, could not be foreseen. With this view of the subject be should think that parliament could not entertain the present motion. If any such regulations as regarded the future, and intended to be permanent, were even to be made, surely it was not a time when the crown was incapacitated that they were to be made. It was necessary to have the superintendance of the crown to watch over its own interests.—The House Would expect that
553552The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the assembling of parliament, in the event of the recurrence of his Majesty's indisposition, was provided for by the existing act. On that ground, and on that ground alone, it appeared to him not necessary at the present moment to take any steps on the subject. At the same time he was of opinion, that on a future occasion means should be take to secure the assembling of parliament as soon as possible after such an event. It was quite impossible, however, that parliament should lay down before hand, all which it might be proper to do under every variety of circumstances.Mr. Bathurst
554 did not conceive it possible that parliament should now enact, that parliament should not be at any time prorogued. This was one of the functions of ministers for which they were responsible, and for all abuses of this sort, ministers were particularly responsible. But to enact now that on any occasion, parliament should not be prorogued at the pleasure of the crown, was to change one of the fundamental principles of the constitution—it was enacting a principle which might be carried hereafter, as it had been formerly carried, to a most dangerous extent. When a case occurred, or on the case of recovery, parliament assembled, would provide for the recurrence. His right hon. friend had thought it enough to provide means at present for the reassembling of parliament; but he wished to add, that in his opinion, parliament ought to provide; what had hitherto been anomalous ought to be regular in future, and the settled course of the constitution. He thought, however, that the difference which existed as to the mode of supplying the difficiency of the executive power, should be submitted to them at a time when the executive government was in full force—when the consideration of the question could not involve the nation in anarchy or confusion—when it could be considered with perfect coolness, and not with the heat of party—and when it could be considered as an abstract question, compared with
554Mr. Canning
 thought that the conflict at Albuera had been one of the most severe and sanguinary during the war; and bore testimony, from private information he had received, to particular instances of gallantry and intrepidity that had been therein shown by our troops. He complimented the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the military precision with which be had stated the details of the battle. He knew no occasion on which the British troops had shewn greater instances of determined courageGeneral Tarleton
 said, that as he had been given to understand that extraordinary opposition would be given to the Bill he proposed to bring in, by the different Vestries, he had thought it better to move for a Committee, and deter the Bill till next session, instead of bringing it forward now, when it might be thrown out, and a second one would come with a bad grace after the rejection of the first.Mr. Wilbraham Bootle
529 could not hope to be able to add to the eloquent statement of the right hon. gent, and the noble lord, but still could not forego the satisfaction of offering his tribute of applause to the gallant general and the gallant army whose services was the subject now under consideration, nor could he contemplate without emotions of pride, that the gallant general, and also generals Cole and Hamilton, who bore so conspicuous a part in the glory of the day, were his countrymen. He hoped
529Sir Henry Montgomery
 stated, that if cotton manufacturers were prevented from taking a number of those apprentices, the price of labour would be raised, and great inconvenience experienced.Mr. Wortley
 contended for the necessity of some regulation to ameliorate their condition. In his own experience, as a magistrate, he had known many instances of the inconveniences they suffered under the existing regulations.Mr. M. A. Taylor
530nem. con. hoped that he should not be considered as digressing, if he stated shortly the services of the gallant general who was the object of the present motion. General Beresford had been thirty years in the service of his country. He commenced in America, was at Toulon, at Corsica, in India, at Madeira, in Portugal, and in Spain with sir John Moore. He had only to state to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his consideration, that the gallant general had lost almost all he was worth in the world by the failure of his relative in Dublin. He stated this merely for his consideration, in the hope that some pecuniary reward would be added to his honours.530nem. con.General Mathew
 supported the motion.Mr. Pole Carew
556555, in reply, thought the declaration of ministers the most miserable farce ever played off to the country, when not sanctioned by an act of parliament. He thought the right hon. gentleman perfectly capable of proroguing instantly, if
556555Mr. Whitbread
 asked if it was not possible that there might be some expression of the feelings of the House upon the transcendant merits of the two young men who had behaved so heroically in the defence of their colours.Mr. Whitbread
519 said, that he did not differ much in the main question from his hon. and learned friend, but thought, that a system of too minute legislation had gone abroad lately, and denied that a few instances summed up, and dwelt upon, were sufficient to prove that the abuses complained of were so great as represented; for his part, in his experience as a magistrate, he knew more instances of the bad conduct of apprentices than of masters, who were urged on by their profligate relatives, whom his hon. and learned
519Mr. Davies Giddy
lllllll557llllll rose to call the attention of the House to the. Petition of the Royal Canal Company in Ireland. [See p. 278.] He said he thought it necessary to make the House acquainted with their affairs, and accordingly entered into a history of their proceedings since its establishment in 1789. From the advantages likely to be derived from the plan, he had on a former application been in favour of assisting them in the prosecution of their design with a grant of 70,000lllllll557llllllMr. Wellesley Pole
 heartily concurred with his hon. and learned friend, in the necessity which existed for the interference of the House, and knew of several instances similar to those which he mentioned.Sir J. C. Hippisley
 rose, and observed, that he regretted much he had not been in the House last night, when, he was given to understand, an hon. member (Mr. Whitbread) had stated that there was a division in the Queen's Council with regard to the state of his Majesty's health; some of the members being of opinion that he was in a state to resume the royal functions, others that he was not. As ho, the Master of the Rolls, had never conceived it possible that such a report could be in circulation, knowing that it had no existence in fact, he could not suppose it likely, that it could find its way into the hon. member's speech, otherwise he should have felt it his duty to be in his place, to give the statement of the hon. member an absolute contradiction. He had only now to declare, that no division in the Queen's Council had ever taken place, either on the supposed question of difference alluded to by the hon. gentleman, or on any other whatever.The Master of the Rolls
 opposed the motion, on the ground that two of the Standing Orders of the Mouse, as they respected this Bill, had not been complied with. One of these directed, that, when a Bill of this description was brought in, it should be accompanied with a list of subscriptions to effect the object, and estimates of the expenses; the second directed, that all those whose estates were likely to be affected by the Bill should be supplied with maps, pointing out any probable alteration. The Bill was intended to repeal several Turnpike acts then in force in Perthshire, and to give to a number of new trustees the control of the old trusts. It would also authorise the forming no less than 15 new lines of road, where at present no turnpike existed, and would also grant liberty to erect eight new bridges. It had been asserted, that there was no necessity to produce plans and estimates, as they were only proceeding on the foundation of the old trust, and therefore the Standing Orders did not apply. But, he submitted to the House, whether plans, estimates, and subscriptions, were not particularly desirable, when the extensive powers contained in the Bill to form new lines of road, and new bridges, were considered. The House, he thought, ought to give some opinion as to the necessity, in such a case, of complying with the Standing Orders.Mr. Abercromby
564 expressed some surprise at the two very dissimilar subjects, which the horn gent. had in tome degree blended together. With respect to the observation he had made, as to the contradiction given by his learned friend, he could, from his recollection of the circumstance, say, that that contradiction was as full and complete as it possibly could be—not only with respect to a division of voices, on a particular fact, that
564The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 professed his hearty concurrence in the prevalent desire for a Reform of the Representation. He believed that what dissatisfaction existed in the minds of the people was to be attributed to the want of that reform. He rose, however, now to give notice, that early in the next session, he intended to move for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the enormous expences of contested elections. (Hear!) If he should be so happy as to succeed in this object, he should then move for a repeal of the Septennial Act.The Marquis of Tavistock
571 stated, that hit anxiety for the repeal of the above act had arisen from a wish to prevent the government of Ireland making use of it as a means of interfering with the constitutional right of the subject to petition. When he originally gave his notice on this subject, it would be recollected, that there was a very thin attendance of gentlemen from Ireland, and since that time he had been obliged to postpone it, owing to a variety of causes, to the present late period of the session. With pleasure he saw that the government of Ireland had not acted on the right hon. gentleman's (Mr. W. Pole) circular letter; and that the right to assemble for the purpose of petitioning, was freely permitted to the people. The Convention Act had been suffered to re-main, as it should do, a dead inoperative letter on the statute book. He had been again induced to put off his motion on account of the absence of many of the representatives of Ireland, and also in consequence of the important motion of his hon. friend (Mr. Parnell) which stood for this evening. He should not, therefore, press the measure on the House during, the present session, but early in the next, he
571Mr. Hutchinson
, in explanation, stated, that he did not, by withdrawing his motion for the present, in any degree change his opinion as to the Convention Act; but he did not see the necessity of bringing forward the repeal of it, having foreseen that the Irish government would not again venture to execute the act to oppress the subject, but suffer it to remain a dead letter upon the statute book.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, he could not approve of what had been stated as to there being any understanding of the kind alluded to, namely; that the Irish government would not carry into execution the Convention Act. Having heard such a statement made, he conceived it to be the duty of some one of the administration who heard such a statement, to rise up and contradict it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his pleasure in having heard the speech of the right hon. gentleman; but he could not agree with the greater part of his observations. He did not see the difficulty of making a rate per acre, and thought it might easily be apportioned, according to the average amount of the different articles, and a calculation of a number of years. He was ready to allow that tythes had no share in the disturbances of Ireland; but he supported the mode now recommended, as one likely to produce satisfaction. He foresaw no difficulty, and although a few gentlemen might pronounce it impracticable, that was no argument against making the trial. In the parliament of Ireland, particularly, he had known instances where plans had by a few been pronounced totally impracticable, and yet those plans were afterwards adopted and found to be beneficial. He was a friend to this measure of ameliorating the tythes, because he thought it would create considerable satisfaction in the minds of the people of Ireland.Mr. French
585 thought a mode might be devised, which would secure the rights of the clergy and tranquillize the minds of the people. He attributed most of the
585Mr. Herbert
 said the clergy only got according to the goodness of the crop, which was a more equitable mode of proceeding than that of the landlord, who insisted on having his rent whether the crop succeeded or not. The conspirators, along with O'Connor and Emmett, had been known to declare, that the people would not be at all relieved by the abolition of Tythes, which would only go to increase the rents of the landlord. He denied that the proportion of Protestants and Roman Catholics was at all as had been represented. Instead of the Roman Catholics amounting to five millions, he contended that they did not amount to above half that number.Dr. Duigenan
 declared it had never been his practice or his inclination to talk disrespectfully of an individual, still more of a whole nation. He had looked into the financial situation of Ireland; and it was a thorough conviction of the dilapidated state of its finances which had induced him to make the observations which had given offence to the hon. general. His experience since that time, however, had confirmed rather than removed the impressions he then felt. As to the hon. member, he had always felt and expressed himself towards him with respect. With regard to the affairs of Ireland, it would be to the advantage of that country, of other gentlemen belonging to England had attended to them as he (Mr. B.) had done.Mr. Bankes
588 observed, that he was much obliged to the hon. gent. for having brought the question before the House. He could not agree with the learned doctor, that tythes were as much the property of the clergy, as the land was to the landholder. He knew of forty acres of potatoe ground, in the diocese of Cashel, where the landholder had to pay five pound an acre tythes. Would it be said that this was not a great evil; and why, then, should not the House pledge themselves to investigate the subject in the next session? It appeared to him to be the old story; for whether it was the case of reform, Catholic emancipation, or tythes, he never knew the administration acknowledge that they ought to be relieved, and that the Petitions presented to them merely arose from the turbulent spirit of the people. Would any rational set of men believe this to be the fact, when the very accused were the supporters of the constitution? If the people of Ireland had the same foresight before the Union as they had now, they would have got what they were now seeking for. His right hon. friend (Mr. Grattan) had often brought forward similar measures in the Irish parliament. Although they had been lost, he had the satisfaction of knowing they were approved of by the people. Al-
588Sir John, Newport
 supported the motion, on the ground that, as the existence of a great evil was admitted on all hands, the House ought not to rest satisfied without inquiry.Mr. Abercromby
587 asked if it was the pleasure of the House that the orders should be acted up to? This being answered by calls of Chair! chair! from every part of the House, the Speaker then informed
587The Speaker
 said, it was for the hon. general to have explained.The Speaker
 here called the hon. general to order.The Speaker
 again interfered, begging of the hon. general to spare such remarks as by the rules of the House were forbidden.The Speaker
 observed, that the objections against the Bill were twofold; first, as it went to alter a turnpike, without estimates, &c. being produced, which, if noticed at an earlier period, would have been fatal; and, 2dly, that it gave a right of forming 15 new lines of road, and altering and varying them. With respect to the first point, as it appeared evidently to have originated in mistake, as the plans and estimates had been ultimately produced, and as the objection was made at so late a period, perhaps the House would not think that sufficient to prevent the third reading. But the great point for the consideration of the House was, whether they would agree to the passing of a Bill, granting leave to open 15 new lines of road, without the parties interested being apprised of their intended course. For this the Standing Order of 1807 expressly provided, as it directed that the parties concerned should be informed, by a map, of the direction of any intended road. If the Bill were agreed to, it would give to the parties, for 21 years; a right of infringing on the estates of many persons in Perthshire, without affording them the necessary information.The Speaker
 said, that perhaps the inroad of 300 yards made on a gentleman's estate, might include that very part of it which he prized most. The old act could not be renewed for a year, which would enable the parties to bring forward a proper Bill.The Speaker
 contended, that the Standing Orders had not been complied with. He denied that the great body of landholders, in the county of Perth, were in favour of the Bill. The earl of Breadalbane and Mr. Burrell, who, he believed, owned two of the largest estates in the county, were hostile to it.General Tarleton
 did not believe, as had been stated, that the majority of the people of England were in favour of parliamentary reform. At particular periods the people appeared to be intent on the measure; but, when they saw into whose hands it had got, they recovered their usual good sense.Mr. Wortley
 observed, that the meeting was one of the inhabitants, not the freeholders exclusively of the county of Kent; and on this account he had himself felt some scruple at attending, in consequence of his not being a resident in the county. He had read the report of the proceedings, and in it he conceived there were some excellent speeches in favour of reform, and others, as he conceived, not so excellent, against it. In looking at the signatures to the Petition, he saw also the names of many, to his own knowledge, most respectable persons, and was satisfied that the prevailing sentiment in the county accorded with his own, that a reform was essential to the best interests of the country.Mr. Calcraft
 declared, that he never had any idea of dispossessing the present proprietors of Tythes, without seeing that they received a perfect and complete equivalent. The right hon. and learned doctor had been pleased greatly to underrate the population of Ireland; but he would venture to assert, that the next census would exceed five millions of people. The Secretary of State, too, had asserted what would almost induce him to say he knew nothing of the country, at least greatly to doubt that he was acquainted with the wishes either of the people or of the clergy.—The plan which he would propose, and which, he was satisfied, would be agreeable not only to the Irish clergy, but to the Irish people, would be, that the clergy should be paid from the treasury, by the sale of the clerical lands, and if any thing in addition was required, then, he submitted, that there could be nothing so simple as to raise the remainder by an acreable tax on the lands over which there was at present a right of Tythe. The sum thus allowed, he should propose, should average the Tythe for the last three years, and, that there might be no complaints, that the valuation should be revised every 21 years. If such a system were adopted, then would the bone of contention, which at present existed in Ireland, be withdrawn, and Ireland would become a mine of wealth to England, instead of being a burden upon her, as she had been said to be by the hon. member for Corfe castle (Mr. Bankes); that hon. member, who had made it his study on all occasions to speak most contemptuously of Ireland, had, however, only shewn his ignorance on this occasion.General Mathew
 again expressed his pleasure at the check the honourable member had received.General Mathew
 was happy, however, that the hon. member had met with a just rebuke, not only from the Irish Chancellor of the Exchequer, but from the English Chancellor of the Exchequer also.General Mathew
 thought he had already done so.General Mathew
 declared himself satisfied with the explanation.General Mathew
 spoke in favour of the motion, and expressed his astonishment that investigation into the state of Ireland should be refused, when their ignorance about that country was so great, that the two sides could not agree within a million and a half, as to its population.Mr. Peter Moore
 said, that having long considered this question as one most important to the tranquillity of Ireland, and one that was called for by the general policy and expediency of the country, he therefore rose merely to second the motion.Mr. Sheridan
570 said he knew the Petition to have been subscribed by numerous and most respectable signatures. An hon. baronet had said that the meeting had not been legally convened. The meeting had been convened by the Sheriff, and was of course legal. The hon. baronet had spoken of the news-paper report, and allowed it to have been full, fair and perfectly correct. Now, there was a part of that report, which he (Mr. Whitbread) had conceived to have been an error, until he had heard the very candid acknowledgment of the hon. baronet. The part he alluded to, was, where the hon. baronet was represented as declaring in answer to a question of how he voted, that he did not recollect whether he had been in the House or not upon that occasion (a laugh). An hon. gent. had said, that there were periodical fits of Reform. All he could say was, that his fit had been of tolerable long continuance, it had lasted thirty years; and he believed that the fits of many other gentlemen would be found to have been equally obstinate. It had been also said, that the people of this country grew indifferent to the cause of Reform, from seeing into what hands it had fallen. He could not see what grounds there were, either for presuming that indifference on the part of the people, or if it did exist, imputing it to such a cause. In many of his friends who were active and consistent supporters of Reform, he saw no ground for any such apprehension. He could not see in the character or conduct of the hon. member for Hertfordshire, rooted as that hon. member was in the esteem and respect of all good men, any reasons to warrant such a conclusion. He saw no reason why a cause should be injured by the support of such men as the noble descendant of the House of Russell, and many other personages who had the greatest interests in the safety and happiness of the country. As to what the hon. baronet had said respecting the persons of whom the meeting at Maidstone was composed, the Petition stated expressly that it was from the inhabitants, and not the freeholders merely, therefore it did not require the interference of the hon. baronet to put the House in
570Mr. Whitbread
565 said, he was pleased to hear that there was no foundation for the report which had reached him, under such circumstances as induced him to give it a degree of credit.565Mr. Whitbread
 moved that the Petition do lie on the table, and stated, that he heartily concurred in the object of the prayer, and that his opinion was as strong as it had ever been, confirmed, not weakened by reflection and experience, that there was no chance of salvation to the political interests of the country, except through a Reform in Parliament.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he understood the right honourable the Master of the Rolls had, during his absence from the House, on Saturday, contradicted a report which he had noticed in his speech on the preceding evening. Perhaps he ought to apologise for having brought forward the question, which was agitated on that evening, during the absence of his honour; but, as he was present in the early part of the afternoon, and as it was generally understood that the question would come on, he trusted he would be absolved from any blame in that respect. He was not aware of the extent of the contradiction; if it went to deny the existence of any difference of opinion in her Majesty's council, he should be extremely glad to hear it, as it was of very great importance to the public. He would not trouble the House with any further observations on this subject, but would beg leave to present a Petition from the inhabitants of the county of Kent, on the question of Parliamentary Reform. (A laugh.)Mr. Whitbread
 expressed his opinion that the sentiments of the people were not so generally in favour of Reform as had been represented.Mr. Lushington
567 declared himself happy to see this Petition presented to the House, because it sought for a constitutional object in a constitutional manner, and was drawn up in the most proper and decorous language. These were the true means of recovering for the people their undoubted rights. Much difference of opinion had unquestionably prevailed among those who were the most anxious for the accomplishment of this great end; but he could say, that any difference which might have occurred between himself and others on this subject arose from his having modelled his ideas by the standard of the constitution, rather than by any theoretical doctrines of original or primitive rights. If, however, the sense of the counties and the opinions of the inhabitants of the kingdom at large, was not so decisive and unequivocal as he believed it to be in favour of parliamentary reform, still he conceived it to be the
567Mr. Brand
 thought the most advisable way would be to adjourn the debate till Thursday next. In the interim, the objectionable parts of the Bill could be expunged, and those which were not opposed, might be suffered to remain.Mr. Adam
 expressed a wish to have the Speaker's opinion on the subject.Mr. D. Giddy
568 said, as he had taken so many opportunities to notify his intention of persisting in giving his support to every effort for obtaining parliamentary reform, and as the necessity for it increased every day, he would not then enter into a discussion on the subject. He was sorry the hon. gentleman would not bring forward his motion in the present session, although he had assigned a very good reason for the conduct he had pursued. The hon. baronet seemed to assume, that the petition did not contain the sense of the majority of those possessing property in Kent, because the meeting had only been attended by the inhabitants of the county. But this was far from being conclusive, for it was more than probable that the meeting had been attended by a very great proportion of freeholders; and he did not think that there was any reason
568Mr. W. Smith
 had, on a former evening, moved to rescind an Address to the Prince Regent for certain papers relative to Sierra Leone. It had however, upon that occasion been suggested to him, that as an hon. gent. who had moved that Address was not then in the House, and as it could not be ascertained whether or not the Address had been actually presented, that it might be advisable to postpone his motion for rescinding that Address. He had since that period learned that the Address had not been presented; and the hon. mover being now in the House, he should move that the order for the Address be rescinded, which passed in the affirmative.Mr. W. Smith
 followed on the same side, and contended that the whole tything system ought to be revised.Mr. W. Smith
ipse dixit was happy to hear that gentlemen on all sides agreed, that in the system of tythes there were many evill which required redress. Even the Irish Secretary of State agreed in this opinion; there were papers on the table which shewed it to be the decided declaration of the people of Ireland, that any modification of the Tythes would be better than the present system observed in Ireland; and the question seemed to be, whether the House should proceed to a modification of this system, or whether they ought to rest satisfied with the mere ipse dixitMr. Tighe
584583582581 said, that from the manner in which the hon. gentleman had brought forward this motion, he should have been extremely happy had he been able to give it his support. He had, during the recess of parliament, inquired into the subject; but the more he had investigated it, the more he was convinced of the impossibility of adopting any measure to remedy the evil complained of. Both he and his right hon. friend near him had been anxious to suggest some feasible plan for that purpose the moment he came into office. It had been a subject which had been frequently agitated by some of the most enlightened statesmen, and amongst others by Mr. Grattan, and yet none of them had ever been able to suggest a plan that could have the desired effect. Knowing the great weight which that right hon. gent. possessed in Ireland, it was certainly extraordinary that he could not so much as induce the Irish parliament even to discuss the Bill he proposed upon this very subject. Even the hon. gent. who now made this motion, although he had read all the books end pamphlets that had been published upon the subject, had not been able to suggest a plan. He himself did not, at first, perceive the difficulty that existed; but he had now formed the opinion, that there was no plan that could be adopted that would not place the people of Ireland in a worse situation, in regard to tythes, than they at present were. It was easy to talk of theories, but he might here observe, that tythes, so far from being an additional tax upon the landholders, were of the nature of an original charge upon all property, supposing that all property emanated from the crown. When a person took a lease, he took it under the burden of tythes, which were a tenth of the produce of the land, one third of which belonged to the lay impropriators, and the other two thirds went to the clergy in various ways. The persons paying Tythes to the lay impropriators, generally speaking, were more oppressed than those paying to the clergy. If there were any oppression at all, it was
584583582581Mr. Wellesley Pole
 assured the hon. gentleman, that the Irish government had not altered their line of conduct inconsequence of any measures taken as to the issuing the letter alluded to, nor had they altered, in any degree, the construction they had given at that moment to the Convention Act. He conceived it to be an act essential to the peace of Ireland, and it had been approved of at the time of its passing by some of the most constitutional lawyers. It was merely a declaratory act, and it was thought most proper to make it perpetual, and not limited in point of time. He could not help trusting, that if at any future period any part of the measures of the Irish government for the peace of that country met the notice of that House, they would pause before they gave encouragement to any motion concerning it, in order to have an opportunity for previous investigation. He could assure the hon. gentleman and the House, that the general tenor of the duke of Richmond's administration had been one of conciliation; and it was satisfactory to him to find, that the House had already justified their conduct in the strongest manner possible; and that, upon the late discussion of the Catholic question, no one thought proper to make any observations upon their behaviour to that body, nor to any other body of his Majesty's subjects. They had always left to the Catholics the full, free, and undoubted right to petition the legislature, provided there were nothing in their proceedings to endanger the peace of the country.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 said, that whenever there was a Petition before the House, he should, whenever he thought necessary, interfere to offer his sentiments without asking the leave of the hon. gentleman.Sir E. Knatchbull
 observed, he merely meant to state, that the sentiments contained in the petition were not those of the county at large.Sir E. Knatchbull
566 did not mean to oppose the petition being received, although he had some doubts in his own mind as to the legality of the meeting at which it had been agreed to. The high sheriff had convened a meeting of the inhabitants of Kent only—by which means a
566Sir E. Knatchbull
580579578577576575574573 rose, and spoke as follows:—Sir; whatever objections may be made to the motion which I am about to submit to the House, I feel confident that no complaint will be urged against me for having brought this subject forward at so late a period of the session. I was prepared to make the motion, of which I had given notice, on the 9th of May, but at the request of a right hon. gent. (Mr. Pole) I consented to postpone it, and the other business of the House has prevented me from having any earlier opportunity to urge it. This circumstance has induced me to adopt a different motion from that which I, had at first proposed to make. It is certainly now too late to desire the appointment of a Select Committee. I shall, therefore, merely move, that the House will early in the next session take into its consideration the collection of Tythes in Ireland. For this reason, I shall not feel it incumbent on me to enter into the general subject at much length. I shall only submit to the House such general grounds for adopting my motion, as will be sufficient to shew to the House, that inquiry is essential, and I shall wait till next session to advance those arguments which in my
580579578577576575574573Mr. Parnell
de facto said, it was admitted that many of the inhabitants of Perthshire contemplated the measure as one of great importance. The terms in which the Standing Order was couched, being in some degree ambiguous, a variety of constructions had at different times been put on it, and the parties having now procured plans and estimates, which were then de factoSir John Anstruther
563 observed, that the powers of alteration were similar to those contained in every Turnpike Bill, and extended only 300 yards from the level road. The turn-pike road act, at present existing in Perth-
563Sir P. Murray
562 was sorry that such an objection should be brought forward in that stage of the business. The Bill was sanctioned, after the most mature consideration, by the great body of the inhabitants of Perthshire, one of the most popular counties in Scotland. The very persons who now petitioned against certain parts of the Bill had formerly declared their assent; nor were their estates likely to be at all injured by the Bill, which, in fact, would be a great public benefit. There had been no intention whatever to evade the Standing Orders of the House: if that charge could be substantiated, it would be sufficient, of itself, to defeat the Bill. In fact, no such intention was entertained, but it was conceived that plans and estimates were not necessary, when there were an existing trust, and existing roads. However, an engineer had been
562Sir P. Murray
 moved the third reading of the above Bill.Sir P. Murray
569 observed, it was most fallacious to assert, that the people returned with pleasure to their imperfect state of representation, when they beheld in whose hands the question of parliamentary reform was placed. He would call the attention of the hon. gent. who had made the assertion, and of the House, to those great men who had supported the measure—the late Mr. Pitt, sir G. Saville, and that right honourable personage on whose model the gentlemen opposite professed to ground themselves. Could these be considered as men whose recommendation would have the effect stated by the hon. gent.? If the people were at one time more ardent in the cause than at another, he could only account for it by referring to discoveries being made at particular periods, of such a nature, as to point out the paramount necessity of Reform. It was his firm conviction, that nothing short of Reform, and the exercise of a principle of renovation on the part of the House
569Sir John Newport
572 was still of opinion, notwithstanding all the explanation that had been given, that the exercise of that power given under the Convention Act, was very blameable in the government of Ireland. He disapproved of the warning thrown out by the right hon. gent, as to calling their conduct in question. Was it proper to say, that the power of that House was to remain, as it were, in abeyance, till the Irish government thought proper to inform them that they had done so and so, and propose that inquiry should be made into it? He begged to enter his caveat against such a proposition, and, also, that because no member had particularly adverted to the conduct of the Irish government upon the Catholic question, they consequently approved of it. Although the Convention Act was in force
572Sir John Newport
590 rose, in pursuance of notice, to call the attention of the House to some regulation on the subject of the Tailors' trade in the city of London. Combinations among this body were of very old standing, and called, even in ancient times, for penal acts. The oldest which he could find on the subject was in the reign of Edward 6; the next was enacted in the reign of George the first; and another still more severe in the reign of his present Majesty. It was found, notwithstanding, that those combinations had not only increased, but that they were conducted on a scale of great magnitude, and with such peculiar sagacity as to defeat the object of every penal statute. There were, within the bills of mortality, about 24,000 tailors, and of these 4,000 had been proved to be in a regular combination, provided not only with counsel, but with a fund of money. They were not content with aiding their own combinations, but even the combinations of other trades, particularly of the Calico Weavers. It was unnecessary for him to enlarge upon the danger of such combinations, or the probability of their taking a much more extended and different compass, unless speedily removed. He concluded with moving, "That a Select Committee be appointed to take into consideration the Laws regulating the Wages of Journeymen in the Tailors' trade within the bills of mortality, the state of the said trade generally, the combinations entered into by Journey-
590Mr. Lockhart
 moved, that there be laid before this House an Account of the number of French Prisoners of War in England, distinguishing the prisons in which they were confined in the month of April 1810, and according to the latest returns; distinguishing those in health from the sick and convalescents.Mr. Rose
591 said, that though the nation was indebted to the late lord Melville for the act which enabled the Navy officer serving on a foreign station, to draw his personal pay at the end of every three months, there was still a great hardship from which they were not relieved, and it was to remove that hardship he brought forward his present motion. What he complained of was, that the officers on foreign stations incurred a loss of from 35 to 40 per cent, in consequence of the rate of exchange; and what he wished was, that they should be put on the same footing with the army in this respect. Many memorials had been transmitted on the subject to the Admiralty, but without producing any effect. Upon the Scheldt expedition they were ordered to be put on the same footing with the army, that the best understanding possible might exist between the two services; and if such a measure was necessary upon that occasion, he did not see why it should not be beneficial as a permanent regulation. He then moved, "That the Act 35 Geo. 3, c: 28, to enable petty officers in the Navy, and seamen, non-commissioned officers of marines and marines, serving in his Majesty's navy, to allot part of their pay fox the maintenance of their wives and families, might be read:" And the same
591Captain Bennet
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had not given a sufficient reason for not going at least into some inquiry. He feared that the expedient of changing situations would not answer, and thought the House and the justice of the country were concerned in making up the pay of the officers who lost so much by the exchange. It was a question of strict and absolute justice. The expences of captains of frigates were great, and this loss must be severely felt by them.Mr. Lyttleton
 said, it was hardly possible for an individual to be placed in a more disagreeable situation than this he stood in, compelled as he was to give a negative to this motion. Very soon after he came into the office of Treasurer of the Navy, this question came under consideration. He consulted with several officers on the subject, and found the difficulties numerous and nearly insurmountable. If the measure were to be adopted, it must be general through every station; and in that case great part of the navy would be losers. Those officers who were on the West India and other stations had an advantage in drawing; and he was, from the result of all his enquiries, perfectly convinced, that on the whole the public would lose infinitely more than the officers could possibly gain; for he did not believe they would gain one shilling. He should be sorry it should go abroad, or be understood out of the House, that this motion was resisted merely from a principle of economy; for when the real benefit of the service was in question, economy, merely as such, would not operate on his mind; and this he had evinced by an immediate support of the application for the officers to have their wine duty free.Mr. Rose
 said he thought the officers of the navy should not be thus unjustly taxed, and he would therefore vote for the motion.Mr. Bastard
 said, that the noble lord (Cochrane) who had latterly been lounging over the world in quest of grievances, did not appear to have duly appreciated the exertions of the officers employed off the coast of France: although they were not always running vessels under batteries to get hold of a few crazy boats that were worth nothing, they wanted no stimulus to do their duty. The fact was, that the noble lord was too much on the watch; his own brother had desired him (captain B.) to put him to bed; and he had so done when he was in Basque Roads, or the noble lord would have been, overcome by the extreme fatigue, which he went through previous to that gallant exploit.Captain Beresford
d.sds, in reply, stated, that he had had several conferences with the Admiralty on this subject, and had wished very much that the business should have originated with them. He therefore could not be charged with bringing forward this measure from any desire of popularity in the navy. In the course of the last war, the marines at Malta received the dollar at 6d.sdsCaptain Bennet
 said, that the inconvenience to the public would be greater in this arrangement than the advantage to the navy. A noble lord had stated that 5 millions annually might be saved to the public with respect to prizes. He would assert, that one thousand pounds could not be saved; and he would defy the noble lord to put his statement on paper in such a manner as would convince one human being.Mr. Rose
601600599llll598597 rose to make his promised motion for the production of the criminal informations against Mr. John Drakard and Mr. John Collyer for libels, and he was happy that at length he was enabled to
601600599llll598597Lord Folkestone
s603602 hoped, when his I conduct was called in question, that the House would indulge him while he gave an account what that conduct had been. He begged the noble lord not to believe that he could have talked disrespectfully in another place of any motion made by the noble lord in that House. He might, no doubt, have expressed himself in the terms retailed to the noble lord, and, when an application for delay was moved, might, turning to those near him, have said in an under tone, "what will such a person say, if I consent to any postponement." He verily believes he had said so, and that, too, just in the way in which he had described it, and that some busy person had thought it worth his while to retail it to the noble lord. He was satisfied, however, that the noble lord was incapable of supposing that he could have been actuated in any thing he did by the conduct of the noble lord in bringing the subject under the consideration of the House, or that he could ever have allowed such a circumstance to act on him in such a way as to cause him to deviate from the line of his duty, which, he was conscious, he had never transgressed on any occasion. If the noble lord could suppose him capable of visiting the offence of any man with greater bitterness because he had communicated with the noble lord, he did him great injustice. He should feel mortified could he believe that the noble lord supposed him capable of such a violation of duty.—He then proceeded to consider the two casts brought under the notice of the House by the noble lord. First, as to the case of Drakard, the noble lord seemed to conceive that after the Hunts, the Proprietors of the Examiner, had been acquitted, he (the Attorney-Ge-
s603602The Attorney-General
606 was surprised that the premises of the hon. gentleman should have led him to such a conclusion. The hon. gentleman allowed that such public officers as the commissioners alluded to, ought to be protected in the discharge of their duty. Now, it was impossible that Mr. Collyer could have made a worse charge against the commissioners than that which he had done, except indeed he had accused them of corruption. He had charged them with taking a malignant pleasure in oppressing the manufacturers, already half borne down by the various evils which they were enduring. He could not conceive a more serious imputation than this; nor one which more distinctly required the interposition of the law. The hon. gentleman allowed that if the motion were carried, it would imply an imputation on the court of King's Bench. Unquestionably it would do so, more especially when coupled with some of the observations which had, been made
606Mr. Lockhart
605 said, if in the case of the libel published by Drakard, one jury had acquitted and another had convicted, it was for the judges, when called on to pronounce sentence of the person convicted, to satisfy their own minds which of the two verdicts had been founded on mistake, and to pass a mild or severe sentence accordingly. If the noble lord contended that the court had erred in their judgment on this point, why had he not given the publication to the House. The fact however was, that the publication for which a verdict of acquittal had been obtained, was not a copy of the whole of the publication which another jury had declared to be a libel. As to any application at the fountain of mercy, in the case of Collyer, he begged the House to consider what was the nature of that case. It did not depend on the particular words of the publication, but on the mischief likely to be produced by it, and the effect it was calculated to produce on the minds of those against whom it was addressed. It was to be considered that
605The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 seconded the motion, and maintained, that whenever the rate of exchange interfered with the pay of the officer, it ought to be made up to him.General Tarleton
 said, that as the House had already refused this motion in the course of the present session, and as the gallant officer had not produced any argument or fact in addition to those which had already failed, he could see no reason for altering his opinion. He allowed that the gallant officer was actuated by the best motives, but it was in general desirable that motions of this description should proceed from the executive government. As to the memorials alluded to, he knew but of one, which was from the officers stationed at Lisbon, at which place the inconvenience was in a great measure done away, nine out of the eleven ships having been since recalled; there were also seven or eight removed from the Mediterranean; and steps would be taken in future to prevent their remaining on their stations so long. It was also deserving of remark, that so far from objecting to the service in the Mediterranean, they made it a matter of canvass and solicitation to be sent to that quarter.Mr. Yorke
596 said, that at this late period of the session it would be impossible to enter upon a subject of such detail as that which was now brought before the House. As to ships being detained so long upon foreign and distant stations, it was much to be regretted, but it was often unavoidable. He was happy, however, to state, that in consequence of the success of his Majesty's arms in India, a considerable
596Mr. Yorke
 bore testimony to the good treatment of the prisoners.—The motion, was then agreed to.Mr. Yorke
 seconded the amendment.Admiral Harvey
l595dsdsll aid an increase of pay to the seamen in the navy would be of little advantage to them, so long as the present system continued. He had in his hands a list of ships of war in the East Indies. The Centurion had been there it years—the Rattlesnake, 14 years, came home the other day, with only one man of the first crew—the Fox frigate, under the command of his brother, had been there 15 years—the Sceptre 8 years—the Albatross 12, &c. Not one farthing of pay had been given all that period to all those men. He had made a calculation on the Fox frigate, and supposing only 100 of the men returned, there would be due 25,000l595dsdsllLord Cochrane
, in explanation, said that he had not charged those officers with any want of exertion; but merely stated that a proper stimulus was not held out.Lord Cochrane
593 could not sec any greater difficulty in paying the officers of the navy abroad, than in paying the army.
593Lord Cochrane
592 said, his hon. friend was, in his opinion, strictly regular in bringing forward this motion, and that, notwithstanding what had been alleged by the right hon. gentleman, no decision of the question had yet taken place. The question now to be considered was generally this, that the House should go into a Committee, to take the subject into consideration. The right hon. gentleman, however, objected against dispensing with old rules and customs, because he says there is no knowing where they will stop; and would rather subject officers in the navy to be
592Mr. Whitbread
604 begged to say a few words, not respecting any thing improper on the part of the hon. and learned gent. who, he had no doubt, had acted most fairly and constitutionally, but simply to make a general observation, that he had remarked for some time, that the punishments inflicted on offences of this kind were most exceedingly severe. He had occasion some considerable time ago to present a Petition on the part of White and Hart, whose period of imprisonment was now nearly expired. There the imprisonment was for three years; a punishment infinitely beyond what could be sup-
604Mr. Whitbread
 suggested, that some measures should be taken to improve the prisons, especially by paving the yards; He did not mean to insinuate that government had been guilty of any neglect with regard to the accommodation of the prisoners; to whom, on the contrary, he believed the utmost attention was paid.Mr. Whitbread
, though he did not think that the question was with out its difficulties, yet was of opinion that sufficient ground had been laid for the production of the required informations. He admitted that it was necessary support those who undertook the duty gratuitously discharged by the commissioners, and that if any man libelled those commissioners, he ought to be brought to justice: but be contended against carrying this principle to such a violent extent as that to which it seemed to have been carried in the case under consideration. To consent to the motion would certainly be to imply that the House of Commons thought there had been some harshness in the administration of justice; but as he did not conceive that such an implication would be as detrimental to the public interests, as a refusal to inquire into the subject, he should support the noble lord's motion.Mr. W. Smith
594 stated, that not being in the House when this subject was discussed on a former night, he was not able to take advantage of the arguments used on that occasion, but from all that had been advanced now either by the hon. mover of this question or by the right hon. gent. opposite, he was more and more grounded in his opinion, of (which he had often presumed to express to the House) the urgent necessity of an immediate inquiry into the state of the navy, with the hope that if it did not produce an immediate increase of the pay and amelioration of the situation of the officers, it would at least impress on the minds of the House and particularly on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the necessity of due economy in all branches of Government, to enable them to do justice to the officers serving by land and sea. He was the less inclined to enter into a partial and limited inquiry, as it appeared to him that much evil arised to the service, from the frequent recurrence to temporary measures or expedients called for at particular moments. He confessed he was not one of those who were disposed to pay every tribute of applause to the act of the 35th, commonly called the Allotment act. He believed it to be an act pregnant with mischief, he believed it to encourage desertion, and still further, he believed it would hereafter occasion much discontent to the seamen, or the alternative of creating great expence to the country. He disapproved of this act, in as much as it was at variance with the principle and salutary regulations of the act of the 38th of Geo. 2.—Having long taken this view of the act of the 35th of his present Majesty, which was now proposed to be strengthened and enforced, it would not be deemed extraordinary, that he should propose an amendment which might have the effect of calling on the House to go into a Committee on the state of pay generally; it might be asked, if he had long entertained this opinion, why he had not during the session proposed some question to the House,
594Sir C. Pole
 did not approve of the existing laws, but thought that no additional restrictive statutes should be enacted against the Journeymen Tailors.—The motion was then agreed to.Sir Thomas Turton
 entered into a history of the proceedings of government on the cession of the island of Trinidad, and explained and defended the policy of the arrangements then made. He spoke in terms of the highest praise of the character' of Mr. Smith, who had been sent out to administer the Spanish law in the spirit of English justice and mercy. He approved of the course which had been pursued by his Majesty's present ministers with respect to Trinidad, and thought it" would be improper to give power to persons who would be likely to wield it against each other. Though he hoped scenes like those which had been witnessed would never return, yet in his opinion it would be rash to suppose the embers of passion were wholly extinguished, and that every feeling of jeaiousy was already no more.Lord Castlereagh
 was in favour of the motion. He thought the great desideratum was, that there should be a settled system of laws for the island, and that it was not so material a question whether those laws were Spanish or British. He thought that the hon. gent. who had brought forward the motion was entitled, to the thanks of the House.Mr. Barings
 reported from the Committee to whom the Petition of several thousand manufacturers and artizans in the town of Manchester and neighbourhood; und also the Petition of several weavers and spinners of cotton, handicrafts artists and labourers, resident in the town of Bolton, in the county of Lancaster, or its vicinity, were referred: to examine the matter thereof, and report the same, with their observations thereupon, to the House: and to whom the petitions of persons residing in the town of Paisley and suburbs thereof; and of heritors, manufacturers, merchants, mechanics, and labourers of all denominations, residing in Lanark, Ayr, and Renfrew shires, and the manufacturing places adjacent, were referred; that they had examined the natters of the said petitions, and had directed him to make a report thereof to the House; and the report was read, and its as follows:Mr. Stanley
613612sl611 rose to bring forward his motion respecting the introduction of the British Constitution, and of British laws into the Island of Trinidad. The hon. and learned gentleman trusted, that he was actuated by no other principle than that of public duty in appealing to a British House of Commons on behalf of the subjects of Great Britain residing in Trinidad. He conceived it to be highly necessary to call the attention of the House to the subject, as the noble lord at the head of the colonial department had stated it to be the intention of his Majesty's ministers to continue the same form of despotic government which had so long disgraced the island. The hon. and learned gentleman, then went into a history of the island from the year 1780, down to 1797, when it was; captured by the expedition sent out from this country, under the command of sir Ralph Abercromby, who, in taking possession of it in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, secured to the Spanish inhabitants their property and lives, but made no alteration in respect to the laws of the island. Thus things continued till governor Picton was appointed, who, to obviate the tediousness of some of their processes, which lasted as long as our Chancery suits, issued ordinances which provided for the decision of cases relating to property in a summary way. In 1802 the island was ceded to Great Britain, and the influx of British subjects was unusually great. The intercourse between the inhabitants and British merchants of course increased. At that time many discussions arose between governor Picton and colonel Fullarton, one of the council, which ended in their being recalled, and general Hislop was appointed to fill the office of governor. Some alterations were made by him to remedy the complaints on the subject of law proceedings, which were not satisfactory to some of the law officers; and it was in 1808 that ministers judged it
613612sl611Mr. Marryatt
622621 was desirous of refraining
622621Mr. Canning
ll in reply, defended the conduct of West Indian juries. In the island in which he had resided ten years, he had been concerned only in three actions, and two of those actions were brought b himself, one against the governor, and the other against the chief justice of the island, and to the honour of West Indian juries he had obtained, in both cases, verdicts in his favour. At present in Trnidad, small causes were decided speedily enough; but of 1,200 causes of importance not 20 had been tried by judge Smith. The sums at issue were placed in the hands of a depository, and could never be got out again. Of one cause in particular out of so large a sum as 200,000llMr. Marryatt,
 seconded the Address. He was glad of that opportunity of allowing the English government to justify itself; but he would not until the papers were before the House, enter upon the subject, He thought when the fate of the unhappy men, who had been so long detained from their families, was considered, and that we had so great a superiority of prisoners over the enemy, however unjust the principle might be, it would be advisable to procure their exchange; but this could not be done till all our military were previously exchanged. The objection against Mr. Mackenzie had never been started by the enemy, who, on the contrary received him well. The French account of the negociation was in many respects garbled. The number of French prisoners in this country exceeded 50,000; the number of British prisoners in France exceeded 10,000; the Portuguese amounted to about 12,000, and the Spaniards were nearly equal to the French in England.Mr. Yorke
618617616615614 said; that when he heard the reasons assigned for this motion, that the British constitution and laws were
618617616615614Mr. Brougham
620the619, notwithstanding the satisfactory answer which the proposition of the hon. and learned mover had received from his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down, found it necessary to go somewhat into the question. He objected to the time and manner in which the question was brought forward. Not a single complaint had been made, but the system had been acted on by all concerned; and though the hon. and learned mover, who was the agent for the colony, had been in possession of the circumstances now staled by him for months, he now brought them forward when probably there was not another business day remaining of the session. The hon. mover desired of the House to take all upon trust. He did not even tell them to what extent or under what limitations he wished his proposition to be adopted. In the colonies there were infinite and important varieties in the legal proceedings. He did not tell them whether he wished for the British constitution as in force in Jamaica, in St. Kitts, or in Barbadoes. He first wished to disarm the government of all powers in relation to the management of the island, and then to leave it to the Regent to exercise his discretion.—He had for twenty five years been acquainted with the West Indies, but he had heard things to night concerning evidence received in those Islands, of which, till now, he had been ignorant. The hon. mover had said, that ministers were determined to govern this island by an arbitrary system. This he denied. They had not, indeed, determined that it should be governed on the same system with the other West India islands, but that any alterations in its existing law should be made gradually, and that they should be such as the colony was capable of receiving. What his hon. friend, on the other hand, proposed, was, that the House should accede to the wishes of 517 white inhabitants in opposition to the wishes of a population of 22,000. There certainly was no application before the House on the part of the people of colour; but how did this happen? Finding that a canvass was going on among the white inhabitants
620the619Mr. Stephen
, though he by no means approved of all the arguments advanced by gentlemen opposite, was against the motion. He thought the measure proposed would be productive of evils of considerable magnitude, while that benefits of equal importance would result from it, was by no means clear. With respect to the treatment of slaves in the English colonies, as compared with what they experienced in the colonies of Spain, he would state one fact which he knew to be true; and which he would challenge any gentleman to contradict. In Jamaica, it was considered the greatest punishment short of death that could be inflicted for a crime: on a slave, to take him from our severity,; and send him to the comparatively mild slate of slavery which it had been stated existed in the Spanish colonies.Mr. Barham
624 rose to call the attention of the House to the negociation which was carried on during the course of the last summer, relative to the Exchange of Prisoners between this country and France. This negotiation was unsuccessful; but the cause was never explained by ministers to the country. As far as he had been able to inform himself, however, the proposals of this country were just, fair, and honourable. The French had circulated statements, accusing the British Government of insincerity; and when the character of the country was at stake, however much he might differ on some points with the ministry no man could be more anxious than himself to justify the conduct of the country compared with that of external powers. In his opinion the proposals of France were as unfair as the proposals of this country were the reverse. He was willing to allow that the British should be exchanged against the French, and that the supernumerary French should be exchanged for the Portuguese and Spaniards as far as they would go, but he could not see the fairness of three Frenchmen being exchanged for one Englishman and two of our allies. He alluded to the calumnies circulated against us by the French; but the injustice of the French proposal was virtually admitted by the French themselves, in the letter of the 22d of July, when it is only justified on the principle that they had no security that even the French and English should first be exchanged against one another, that we could continue to fulfil an engagement by giving up the remaining French for our allies. Finding this ground slip under him, the French negociator complained of the ill treatment of the prisoners here. He had inquired into this subject, and of all the prisons, Dartmoor was the most favourable for the French statement. In that prison the number of prisoners was 5,635, the number in the hospital was 82, and the deaths in 4 months amounted in all to 24. Supposing the age of the prisoners between 30 and 40, there was here even a smaller mortality, than according to the Stockholm table in Dr. Price's work. This ought more fully to be inquired into. This system of misrepresentation had been uniformly practised by the French; they had done the same thing in 1795; but by an investigation of a Committee of the House of Commons no doubt was left of the falsity of their accusation. He ob-
624Mr. Brand
 said a few words in sup port of the motion.Mr. Manning
 observed, that Great Britain, though unwilling to deprive boroughs of their charters, sometimes found it necessary to resort to that measure. Why should not the island of Nevis, for instance, not be deprived of its charter as well as a borough in the county of Sussex.Mr. W. Smith
 enforced many of the arguments of the preceding speakers, and dwelt strongly on the advantages of religious instruction on the minds of the slave population in the West India islands. He complained of the assembly of Jamaica, who, he stated, interdicted and punished the Methodist missionaries, and concluded by praising the talents and exertions of Mr. Smith, and commending the zeal and attention of ministers to the abolition of the slave trade.Mr. Wilberforce
 seconded the motion; remarking particularly on the utility of the invention, as it enabled the life-boat to reach vessels in distress on many occasions when otherwise a boat could not possibly be launched.Mr. Rose
 although he highly approved of the invention, yet cautioned the House, after the experience which they had already had during the present session, as in the case of Mr. Palmer, against addresses stating their disposition to make good any payments of money.Mr. Bastard,
 stated, that it was his intention to obviate some of the objections which had been made to the Bill, by introducing a clause on the report, putting the Irish Distillers on the same footing in exporting as the English distillers, and containing several other amendments.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
628 then said, that he had some clauses to propose which he presumed to think would meet the whole of the objections to the Bill. He had no doubt that the great danger of frauds being committed in consequence of the intercourse, must arise in Ireland, where a duty being imposed on 100 gallons of spirits, without regard to its strength, those 100 gallons might be converted into 130 gallons, and the 100 gallons being exported to England, the 30 gallons would become a clear bonus to the exporter. When the English distillers, however, said that they would go on without any regulation rather than have the Bill now before the House, that he was aware, could only be regarded as an expression of anger, which was not to be attended to. This was a diminished evil, and it must be better to have it than an aggravated weight. He must say, in praise of the British distillers, that greater candour, greater liberality, or a greater desire to afford information, he had never found in any body of men. They, surely, however, had a great interest in suspending, as long as possible, the intercourse between the countries, and in driving parliament for some time longer to continue the prohibition. Till the introduction of these clauses, which he had now to propose, he agreed the Bill was open to objection, as it allowed the distiller of Ireland to export spirits without payment of any excise duty, or subject to any drawback except what might be supposed to be produced by the duty on malt. This, too, it was to be observed, was only an experiment, and if it should not be found to answer, it would not be carried farther, the duration of the present Bill being only for such a period after the commencement of the next session of parliament, as would allow time for reconsidering the measure. To prevent any interference between the English, Scotch, and Irish distillers, which might lead to frauds or to unjust advantages on either side, he should propose that no spirits be exported from either of the countries but through warehouses to be established in each. This was no new
628The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, if the meaning of the clause was as it had appeared to his hon. friend, the clause was defectively worded. He surely meant that the same premises used by a distiller at the time of passing the act, might be used for the purposes of this clause. He believed the measure would be found more advantageous for all parties than when there was no intercourse. Could it be expected, then, that Ireland would give op her home market for the chance of exporting? And if the House had no absolute right to prevent this, would not the introduction of such a clause be an indirect mode of preventing that which openly and directly they had no right to prevent?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
630 contended that the Union was founded on principles of reciprocity, and that whatever was unprovided for in this respect, ought to be done away with. What was this measure, but that the Irish distillers should pay no duties and
630Mr. Marryatt
633632dsdsdsdsdsdsdsds argued in support of the Bill. The countervailing duties imposed by the act of the Union, were equal to the internal duties on the imports of spirits from Great Britain into Ireland, and from Ireland into Great Britain—imposing, how-ever, a drawback on the export equal to the countervailing duty. At the Union, the countervailing duty in Ireland was fixed at 3633632dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsMr. Hutchinson
 Sir, I trust I am incapable of using language unworthy this place or myself. In saying what I have said, I have obeyed the dictate of feelings of which I am not ashamed; and while I know them to be just, I know not why I am to suffer the expression of them to be dictated to me. [Here the cries of—Order, order! Chair, chair! became louder and more general.]Mr. Hutchinson
634. To conform to the "sages of this House I am in every way disposed; but my first right as a member of it is, what I shall never willingly re-sign—(Order, order!)—If privilege of speech be not the right of every member of this House, I know not what is—I have always thought it to be the right of every member of this House, what he feels honestly, to declare boldly—my feelings with respect to that measure of Union, have been strong and uniform. When it was first proposed, I foresaw in it danger to this country, in the danger, the degradation, and the ruin of my own—and as a common friend to both, I resisted it by every means within my power; and am I now to be denied the melancholy privilege of deploring the humiliating state to which that measure has reduced my country, by making her a party in effecting her national extinction? Am I to be denied the right of complaining that she has been tricked out of her independence by promises which have been all violated, and hopes which have been all blasted? It, however, after all this it be the secret determination to rob her gradually of the very few advantages, and those too of par-
634Mr. Hutchinson
 took occasion to observe, that it would appear from these documents that the total number of French Prisoners remaining in England amounted to 45,933, and that the returns of the sick were 321. The number on parole were 2,710, and the sick 165. This statement he conceived would be a sufficient answer to the imputations of negligence upon the part of this government which had been thrown out by a noble lord.Mr. Rose
 observed, that by the noble lord's own statement, the circumstances of the prison were altered. There had been a mortality among the prisoners in the spring of 1810, from the arrival of some French from the West Indies, in a very dirty state. Those mea brought fever into the prison, but it was soon got under. The Chancellor of the Exchequer then succinctly answered the other statements, and concluded by expressing his surprise that if the noble lord had known of all those charges, he had never brought them forward before. The prisoners were at this moment in a state of comfort unequalled in any military prison, and in a state of health which was not exceeded by that of the healthiest district of England.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said the malignant fever was in January, and that in April, out of 5,000 prisoners, there were but 60 sick.Mr. Rose
ll, after a few observations en the legal nature of divorce, moved that some provision for Mrs. Loveden might be allotted out of her own portion. He conceived that he should not exceed moderate bounds, by naming 300llMr. Lockhart
 conceived the question an extremely serious one. He wished to have time to consider it. It was only mercy to the sex, to avoid making the road easy and profitable to a crime, most injurious to society, and ruinous to the character of females. Ha did not know yet, whether the House ought to sanction the giving so large a share of the interest of her portion to this unfortunate woman. It might be, too, that passing a clause to that effect might be introducing a precedent and interfering with proceedings already instituted by the other House. He wished to hear the opinions of legal men on that point.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that Mr. Philipps had called upon him at about 10 o'clock in the morning, and told him, that though he had not been served with an order, he understood the House required his attendance, and therefore he would come either that day, or the following. He requested to know the nature and prayer of the petition, and being told that it was to compel his appearance to an indictment in the county of Surrey, he asked, What he should do? To this he (Mr. Lockbart) replied, that he should go to a clerk of the peace, and give bail for his appearance; and also before a judge in his chambers, and bind himself to attend at the session. Mr. Philipps's answer was, that he was always Willing to do so, bat being misinformed by his attorney, and told that his appearence was not necessary, he bad neglected it. In consequence of this communication, he had to state, that Mr. Philipps had since appeared before a clerk of the peace, and brought from him a certificate to that effect; and also that he had promised on his honour to attend at the judge's chambers. Having succeeded so far, he trusted the House would consider he had discharged his duty: he therefore moved that the order for Mr. Philipps's appearance might be discharged.Mr. Lockhart
 said that as no complaint was now made, the order fell to the ground of course.—The order was accordingly discharged.The Speaker
l observed, that the clause was not without example. In 1793, a clause had been introduced into a bill from the Lords, and it was not thrown out by them on its return. The sum named was, however only 50lThe Speaker
. The hon. member will be pleased to see the necessity of conforming to the usages of this House, in the expression of his opinions.The Speaker
. The hon. member will do well to recollect, that such is not the language which it becomes this House to hear, or him to use, in speaking of a grave and solemn act of Parliament.The Speaker
638637636635 rose and said: Sir; I do not know whether it is perfectly regular to make any observations on the production of these papers; but reproached as I am at this moment by the pointed ad-dress of the right hon. gent., and goaded as I have been by his repeated assertions, that I am unable to prove facts which I have stated to this House, it is incumbent upon me to justify my conduct, in having given notice of a motion relative to the prison in Dartmoor, but in which I did not persevere, for reasons very different from those assigned by the right hon. gent., namely, "an inability to prove facts." Sir, if facilities are afforded to investigate truth, that right hon. gent. will find, that neither within or out of this House have I ever asserted that which I am unable to establish. The time that has elapsed will sufficiently evidence my reluctance to bring this matter to the knowledge of the public, fearing that a disclosure might add to the misfortunes of our countrymen in France. However, the defence of my character now compels me to say a few words in relation to it, and the right hon. gent. and his colleagues have themselves alone to blame.638637636635Lord Cochrane
 hoped for the credit of the House, that they would not, with their eyes open, drive a young and very unfortunate woman into courses, if possible more vicious than those which had ruined her character already.Mr. Wilson
l thought 400lSir J. Graham
 reprobated the injudicious and careless spirit in which many of the observations on the subject had been hazarded by the noble lord.Mr. Stephen
 said, that he had known an instance of a clause of the nature of the present one inserted by the Commons and that it was not rejected by the Lords. The House went into a Committee, and the clause was brought up, and read a first and a second time.Mr. Simeon
 said that to his certain know-ledge the water at Dartmoor was excellent.Mr. Cripps
l answered, that Mrs. Loveden's portion was 12,000lMr. P. Moore
 alluded to the boons which had lately been conferred on Scotland, in grants for her roads, bridges, and canals; and to the grants to our colonies on the ceast of Africa, &c.; and argued, that as the distillery was the only branch in which it was alledged that Ireland had at all been favoured at the Union, it would be unjust and ungenerous totally to deprive her of that the only boon she had received.Mr. P. Moore
ll said, if 200llMr. Whitbread
639 felt himself obliged to make some observations on what had fallen from the noble lord. He had taken the pains of making many enquiries into the state of the prisoners, and he must say, that all his enquiries were satisfactorily answered. There had been a fever in the prison, from infection; that was got over. As to the assertions, that there was a difficulty of corresponding with the Transport Board, be had happened to have a good deal of correspondence with
639Mr. Whitbread
l stated, that he had learned from the counsel in this case that Mr. Loveden objected to her having any annuity, as she had a jointure of 800lMr. Giddy
640, in allusion to sir J. Graham's expressions) wished it not to be un-
640Mr. W. Smith
631 again protested against the principle of the Bill, and also against its details. He did not wish to require that the Irish distiller should have two places for carrying on his business, but only that he should give two days notice before proceeding to convert his operations from distilling for home consumption to distillation for exportation, and that in the mean time his work should be suspended. What he complained of was that every thing in those regulations was given to Ireland. Gentlemen said that suspending the intercourse was infringing the Union. Would they say, however, that the imposing of drawbacks did not infringe the Union? If this was not so, then was his argument gone. If it was, then was there a fallacy in saying that he was guilty of a breach of the Union who recommended that out of which a solid and substantial benefit arose, and that he was not guilty of such breach who was for giving an unfair and undue advantage. The right hon. gent. said that the distillers in Scotland would be able to avail themselves of the privilege of warehousing which he pro-posed. There were only two persons in Scotland, however, who would be able to do so; and for that reciprocity all Ireland was to be enabled to send spirits into England. He had heard of Irish reciprocity; if this was not it, he could not conceive in what it consisted. The English distillers had gone on, trusting to the assurances of the right hon. gent. that things should con-
631Mr. W. Smith
629 could not conceive oft what principle the House were to agree to such a clause as the present. He could not attribute it to any wish on the part of the right hon. gent. to encourage injustice, but must lay it to the account merely of inadvertency. The right hon. gent. he had no doubt had adopted it as a shadow of reciprocity of rights between this country and Ireland, founded on the act of the 45th of the king, chap. 100. He wished the House only to attend to this one fact. The Bill in question was to expire three months after the meeting of the next session of parliament, and, by the way in which the clause in question was framed the English distiller could not avail him-self of the privilege allowed him till October in the next year after the passing of the act, and by which time, of course, the act must have expired. By what name was he to call this! Was it a nullity? Was it an insult? Or was it merely an inadvertency on the part of the right hon. gent.? If he did not agree that it was an inadvertency, then could it be nothing but an insult. The clear import of the clause was this, either that the party intending; to avail himself of the benefit of the clause must erect new warehouses for the reception of the spirits to be exported, or he could not commence warehousing in his present premises for twelve months. A
629Mr. W. Smith
627 lamented that the right hon. gentleman had not expressed his intention at a more early period, as the counsel who were about to be called in could scarcely be expected to accommodate the argument which they had pre-pared, to so sudden an alteration. Still, however, he bespoke the earnest attention of the House to the subject, which was one of vital importance both to the British distiller and to the general revenue.627Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that the expences in the present instance would be very small.Mr. Wilberforce
626, pursuant to notice, called the attention of the House to captain Manby's invention for preserving seamen's lives. Captain Manby had already received a public reward for it; and animated by this, he had made various improvements in it. The whole had been tried and approved by a Committee of general officers. The invention added greatly to the utility of Mr. Greathead's life boat. Upon the whole, he thought it highly desireable that the apparatus should be established on different parts of the coast. The arrangements had better be left to the executive government, who, he hoped, would grant re-wards to those who exerted themselves in preserving the lives of seamen. He him-self had in vain attempted to procure a reward for some persons who had, at the risk of their lives, preserved several from wreck, and these very men afterwards re-fused to go out in a case of distress, be-cause they said they had families of their own, and could not expose their lives to imminent hazard without the conviction that, in case of the worst, their families should be provided for. The expence of this would be trifling and the benefit would be great. He concluded by moving, "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince
626Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that the remark of his hon. friend related not to the amount, but to the motion itself. There was this difference, however, between the case to which his hon. friend alluded and that at present under consideration, namely, that in the former instance, the vote of the House was against the opinion of ministers, but that in the latter it received their sanction.Sir T. Turton
, from the Transport Board, presented at the bar several papers relative to the prisoners in Dartmoor Prison.Mr. Christie
 said these papers were presented in consequence of a noble lord (Cochrane) who he was sorry not to see then in his place, having asserted, that the prisoners confined in that prison, had died thirty and forty in a week. The fact was quite otherwise, for at no time but one, which was about two years ago, had there been any extraordinary mortality among the prisoners. That one time was in consequence of some French prisoners being sent there, who had been landed from the West Indies, and who brought over with them an infectious disorder, which was however by skilful medical practice subdued in about a fortnight, and the prisoners had ever since been remarkably healthy. It had been also asserted that there was a great deal of filth and dirt in the prison, but the reverse was the case; and there was a stream ran through the prison of as pure water as any in England.Mr. Rose
 was afraid it might be irregular to do any thing at present more than to order the return to be laid on the table, and to be printed.Mr. Rose
 could not believe that his noble friend, who was not now present, would have said what he did without some ground.Sir P. Burdett
 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice, respecting corporal punishments in the army. He said, the "abject had for several years weighed and pressed upon his mind, and he at length had determined to bring it before the attention of the House; but having, from time to time, heard from several gentlemen, high in the army, that government had an intention to abolish the infamous practice of Flogging, he had been induced to withhold from making any motion, wishing rather that the measure should voluntarily flow from them, than that it should be adopted in consequence of the interference of that House. It had been said at the time of passing the Mutiny act, that a clause would be introduced, which would have the effect of abolishing this scandalous punishment by degrees; but having found from the clause in the Local Militia act that that was not the case, he thought it his duty not to loss a moment in coming down to the House, to give a notice on the subject; and he had only brought forward the case of Taylor as an instance that something was necessary to be done. Finding, however, that the case of a Local Militia-man did not perhaps sufficiently apply to the case of the general adoption of the punishment of Flogging throughout the main body of the army, he had given up that case, and thought it best to proceed on the motion which he should have the honour, before he sat down, to submit to the House, There were other reasons which urged him much to come forward with it. The press had been treated with uncommon-severity on account of mentioning the disgraceful punishment of flogging our soldiers. Very severe sentences had been passed on two public writers for having said that these degrading punishments in our army had—Sir F. Burdett
705704703702701700 (on our readmission into the gallery) was speaking. In the view that he took of this subject he was sanctioned by the opinions of many general officers, and persons who had eminently distinguished themselves in the service of their country. Many of those officers not only agreed with him in theory, but had proved in practice, and in the discipline of their own corps, that the system of flogging was not essential to the discipline of the English army, and that it was as unnecessary as it was cruel and disgraceful. Among the many bright examples of officers who knew how to maintain proper discipline in their regiments without flogging, he thought it would be injustice not to mention the illustrious name of his royal highness the duke of Gloucester, who far the last three years had kept his regiment in a high state of discipline without having recourse to flogging; and it appeared to him that his conduct in this respect did equal credit to his abilities as an officer, as it did to the amiable qualities of his heart. He was sorry to be obliged to state another most remarkable instance of the inefficacy of pursuing an opposite line of conduct. He must say that the 15th regiment of dragoons was a regiment long distinguished for its efficiency in the field, and for its peaceable, modest, and proper demeanour in every respect, before his royal highness the duke of Cumberland got the command of it. Until that time, punishments of this nature had seldom been known in it; and it was a melancholy fact to state, that more cruel punishments had taken place within. a very few months after the duke of Cumberland was appointed to the command, than had taken place in that re-
705704703702701700Sir F. Burdett
 spoke against the motion.Lord Palmerston
 thought the House ought not to put any faith in the statement of the hon. baronet, who had gone about collecting old stories, which, the moment they were stated, were falsified. The hon. baronet came forward with an abstract catalogue of complaints, which were uncontradicted and uncontradictable, because anonymous. He reprobated in strong terms the degrading light in which the hon. baronet had attempted to place the British soldier. God knows where he had got the notions which he had promulgated that night, but whether he had derived them from some periodical work which he was in the habit of reading, or from the company which he was in the habit of keeping, he trusted that he would not find in that House a single teller to support him.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 and Sir H. Montgomery spoke against the motion.Mr. Adams
710 supported the motion, and vindicated the discipline of the French and Russian armies.710Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that sir M. Wood had not shewn that the hon. baronet whom he had interrupted, was out of order; he must do that, and not comment on the hon. baronet's speech.The Speaker
 opposed the motion, and was inclined to think, that during the hon. baronet's stay in the Tower, he had been picking up stories from the old soldiers, and they really had played the old soldier on him.Mr. Yorke
 then gave notice that he would constantly move an adjournment so long as sir M. Wood persisted in excluding strangers.Mr. Brougham
709708 regretted that the actual statement of the hon. baronet seemed to have totally escaped the hon. member, whose speech was much more like a prepared anticipation of a speech expected, than an answer to one made. The cases which his hon. friend had adduced had been objected to, but he would not trouble himself about those cases. He was satisfied with shewing from the principle of reason and law, that the system of flogging was unwise. This was the object of the motion, and nothing relating to any particular case: he was only anxious to bring the House to a pledge that it would proceed on the subject next session. The judge advocate had spoken of his amendments to the Mutiny act, and the effects he expected from them. But what was the change? The Mutiny act had, since the Revolution, allowed of a latitude of punishment for higher offences, and a court-martial might sentence to imprisonment or flogging. By the 22d section of the act a court-martial could go to any extent of punishment that did not injure life or limb. There, was, of course, no change in the law. If it was still to be insisted that there was a change, it
709708Mr. Brougham
 spoke to order, and said, that if the hon. baronet who spoke last was allowed to proceed in that way, he would move that the debate be adjourned.Mr. Brougham
 said he understood that during the 14 months the petitioner was governor of the Moluccas, he had reduced the Company's expences 1,140,000 dollars, and he was now in a starving state.—The Petition was ordered to lie on the table.Mr. P. Moore
l696in limine695 presented a Petition from James Oliver, esq. late a colonel in the service of the East India Company, under the presidency of Fort St. George, setting forth:l696in limine695Mr. Peter Moore
 bore testimony both to the disinterested conduct of his hon. friend, the member for Plymouth, and also to the precautions used by the managers of the prison to get rid of the infection, declaring it to be his decided opinion that there was no blame attached to any person connected with the prison.Mr. Whitbread
 reprobated the system of punishment which had been adopted in our army, and highly panegyrised the dukes of Gloucester and Grafton for their discountenancing it in their respective regiments. Save this one black spot, he knew of no taint upon the honour of our army.Mr. Whitbread
 explained some misconceptions with regard to himself that seemed to have gone abroad. He stated that the soil from the prison in question was carried off through his lands at his own expence.Mr. Tyrwhitt
697 said the court of directors had certainly a right to dismiss their servants; this gentleman was charged with having been engaged in commercial transactions while he was governor of the Molucca Islands, contrary to the rules and regulations of the Company. He had also before been dismissed for lending money
697Mr. Wallace
 said the petitioner had been repeatedly accused and convicted of offences against the rules and regulations of the Company.Mr. Astell
 spoke in favour of the motion.Mr. W. Smith
 as the subject had been mentioned, hoped the House would come to some resolution expressive of their approbation of the conduct of the managers of that prison towards the French prisoners in custody there. Of 20,000 prisoners there were at this moment only 300 sick—a circumstance which merited attention and public thanks.Sir C. Pole,
707706 admitted the importance of the subject, but must think the statements of the hon. baronet much exaggerated. The very object proposed was already attended to, so far as was consistent with the military policy of the country, and could be made useful or manageable. It was unfair to speak of the effect of the law, until it had been tried; from the lateness of its enactment, it had not been fairly tried. Even now, frequent applications had been made to him to know how far the usual punishment might not be commuted for imprisonment. Instances of cruelty had been spoken of. If (hose instances were brought forward distinctly, they would meet investigation, and receive punishment. It was to be observed, that the object of the former motion, the Local Militia-man, was omitted. From the mode in which the statement of that case was originally made, some enquiry had been necessary, and the result was the following statement. The recruits had been assembled some days before the main body of the regiment, and there was a natural tendency to disorder. There were some reports that the men's bread was bad, and the colonel sent for the contractor to direct him to give better. The contractor as
707706Mr. Manners Sutton
 spoke to order, and Was proceeding to comment on the speech of sir Francis Burdett, whenSir M. Wood
 then moved that the gallery be cleared.Sir M. Wood
 adverting to the dropped order for taking into consideration the Report of the Committee on the Weavers' Petition, observed, that however the House might despair of rendering any benefit to the petitioners, it would not be treating them with due attention to take the subject up at present, when, perhaps, there were members absent who were desirous of delivering their sentiments upon it. He proposed, therefore, That the report should be taken into consideration on Monday next.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 acquiesced in this proposal.Colonel Stanley
 repeated the reasons which he had stated to induce the House to postpone the consideration of the subject.The Chancellar of the Exchequer
722721 trusted the House would not be disposed to entertain such a motion as that made by the hon. gent without any previous notice having been given, and more especially when the hon. gent. himself stated, that he did not conceive his motion could be followed by any thing in the present session, but merely the production of the papers. If ever there was a case in which a notice of motion was peculiarly requisite, it must be when no other proposition was speedily to follow. If it were necessary to do any thing immediately, that necessity might be reasonably urged to induce the House to entertain a motion without notice. Here, however, there was no such necessity, and he was persuaded that the House felt too strongly the benefit to public business, which was derived from the practice of giving notices of motions, to depart from their usual course on the present occasion. The hon. gent. could have had but two motives in bringing forward this subject. The one was to make a speech, the other to obtain the production of the papers in question. In the first part of these objects the hon. gent. had succeeded; and with respect to the second, as he himself declared, that it was not his intention to found any motion upon the papers during the present session, it appeared unnecessary to produce them until the next session. Such would have been his argument at any period, but if there ever was a time at which it was peculiarly incumbent upon the House to resist a motion of this nature, it was the present period, when no opportunity had been afforded for judging of the effect which might be produced by Mr. Foster's mission to America. Vet, at such a moment did the hon. gent. come forward with his tirade. At such a moment did he tell the American government not only that their interests, but that their honour, had been injured by Great Britain. At such a moment did he attempt to give an impression of the negociation which had taken place, of such a nature as might be fatal to the negotiation which was still carrying on. With respect to the hon. gentleman's observations on the different parts of the correspondence, the present was not the period for commenting upon them. When the negociation should be terminated, that would be the time for discussing its merits, and not while it was pending. Indeed, those observations might well have been spared. Thinking, as he did, that the
722721The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed that it was unfair to tell the suffering manufacturers that English commerce was excluded from the continent because ministers would not rescind their Orders in council, when the hon. gent. well knew that the revocation not only of the orders in council issued under the present, administration, but of those issued, and wisely issued, under the last administration, was demanded, as well as those national rights with respect to blockade, &c. which Great Britain had so long and so indisputably possessed.Mr. Rose
728727726725in724 said, he had a Petition in his hand from a person confined in the Castle of Lincoln, complaining of the treatment he there met with, as not warranted by the judgment of the court which had sent him there. It was from a gentleman pretty well known to that House,
728727726725in724Mr. Whitbrend
 stated, that he had that day received a letter from the high Sheriff) the delay of which was owing to his having been in town, and having left directions behind him, under the expectation of an immediate return, that his letters should not be sent after him. It informed him, that Mr. Finnerty had at first en. joyed only one hour of exercise in the open air, which period was afterwards extended to three. This indulgence, however, it was found necessary to withhold, in consequence of the extreme irregularity and impropriety of his conduct, and which was stated to be of a description not more inconsistent with decorum than with the rules and discipline of the prison. He was in possession also of certificates contrary to those mentioned by the hon. gent. He had, however, no objection to make every further inquiry necessary to prove whether it was possible to relieve the inconvenience complained of, His noble friend (lord Castlereagh) had, it was but justice to say, manifested ever desire to render the confinement of Mr. Finnerty as mild as was compatible with the sentence.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 did not know what powers were vested in the magistrates or gaoler to convert the prison into a House of correction, and inflict solitary confinement at their discretion. This appeared to have been done in this instance, and an acquaintance of his had informed him, that in passing through Lincoln, he had wished to see Mr. Finnerty, but was refused admittance. It likewise seemed to him that the Secretary of State was not a proper person to be appealed to, or any of the executive ministers of the crown. Enough had certainly been said to induce the House to take the Petition into full consideration, and extend to the prisoner all the relief and accommodation that was consistent with the nature of the sentence.Sir Francis Burdett
732731 thought that the allegations contained in the petition were of a nature that required an answer very different from that which had been as yet given. There could be no doubt that Mr. Finnerty had entered the prison in which he was now confined in a state of health much impaired; a circumstance which in itself ought to have been sufficient to have ensured Mr. Finnerty every possible indulgence consistent with his situation. Indeed, he thought, that this might have been rendered without any very extraordinary exercise of humanity. But instead of this, it appeared that he had been treated with downright cruelty. It was, indeed, a statement of cruelty so excessive, that in his opinion it would be to the disgrace of the House if they suffered it to remain on their table uncontradicted and unremedied. There were some parts of the, Petition to which the right hon. secretary had given no answer; one especially, which appeared to him to require the fullest explanation, if indeed it could
732731Mr. Hutchinson
734733 said, that his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, had done him but justice in giving him credit for his wishes, respecting the mitigation of Mr. Finnerty's sufferings. When he had first heard of that gentleman's application upon that subject, he did not feel himself prohibited from interposing
734733Lord Castlereagh
735 said, that this appear-ed to him to be a case of the very last importance; there was one material fact which had not been at all explained by his right hon. friend the Secretary for the Home Department. When this person was sent to the castle of Lincoln, there to be confined pursuant to his sentence; the gaoler locked him up in a solitary cell appropriated to felons—upon what authority did the gaoler venture to do this? the prisoner was not sentenced to solitary imprisonment—a punishment concerning which, however, he believed, there were no small doubts, as to whether there were any sanction of it to be found in the laws of England—but be that as it might, if there was such a distinction, was the imposing of it to be left in the hands of a gaoler? This would be a power beyond any thing exercised by the King's bench. That court sentenced one man to twelve months imprisonment—another to eighteen—another to two years—but what was the difference of a few months more or less confinements compared with that of solitary confinement, in a felon's cell, shut out from every intercourse, and even the means of earning subsistence wiihheld; and was this fearful discretion to be left to the whim of a gaoler? This was not the case of a private individual; it was the case of the public; this was putting into the hands of every gaoler the severest punishment that could be inflicted on a British subject short of death. Another consideration was that the punishment of the rich man would be essentially different from that of the poor man, though confined for the same offence, and under the very same sentence: from gaolers it might not be so wonderful; but what were they to say to magistrates who could have the face to tell this wretched man, that for three guineas a week more he could he accommodated
735Sir Samuel Romilly
736 in explanation, stated, that the one hour's air and exercise had been at first enlarged to three hours at different times, one hour each time, and that on certain gross and indecent improprieties having been committed by the prisoner, that time had not been lessened; but it was thought advisable that he should take the three hours exercise at once, from eleven till two, every day: the cold of the apartment had been remedied by a baize door. If was a mistake to represent Mr. Finnerty as under solitary confinement. He was under no such thing. As to the complaint made by an hon. gentleman of the severity of banishing the petioner to a gaol so distant from the metropolis, it was in compliance with the earnest applications of the prisoner's friends that he was not sent to a prison in the immediate vicinity of London, but sent to a country gaol, and one which was con-
736Mr. Secretary Ryder,
 could not give any other than the general pledge he had given, qualified by the conditions he had annexed to it.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said, he now recollected another friend of his who had called, and had been refused access to Mr. Finnerty. He was however admitted to him at a subsequent period; and so dark was the room at mid-day, that Mr. Finnerty was obliged to read the letter he brought him at the grate by the light of the fire.Sir F. Burdett
737 said, in explanation, that in what he had said of Mr. Finnerty, he did not affect to pass any eulogy upon him. He had merely stated what he understood to be facts; and if those facts were of a nature so praise-worthy as to amount in effect to an eulogy, he did not see why the statement of them should have been so offensive to the hon. gentleman's delicacy. He might, however, call it eulogy if he pleased; but while it was true, he should not be ashamed of it. He did not think it ought to be withheld from Mr. Finnerty merely because he happened to be at that time an unfortunate prisoner pining in a cell. His motive, in saying what he had of Mr Finnerty was to do
737Mr. Hutchinson
 interposed, and said, that the question before the House must first be disposed of.The Speaker
 in explanation, said, that he did not doubt the statement made by the hon. gentleman; but had said only that he had attributed to Mr. Finnerty qualities by which he had never before heard of his being distinguished.Mr. C. Adams,
 hoped, now that the right hon. gentleman had promised every thing necessary to remedy the grievances complained of by Mr. Finnerty, the object of the petition had thus been gained and since that was the case, he trusted the discussion would not continue the whole night. An hon. gentleman had favoured the House with a high and elaborate eulogium on Mr. Finnerty, and had certainly in the course of it brought certain merits of that person to light which he had never before heard attributed to him. He hoped, however, now that the wishes of the House were known upon the subject, that there would be no necessity for any more eulogies upon the great services and great talents of Mr. Finnerty.Mr. Charles Adams
 agreed with the noble lord who had expressed himself so handsomely on this question, that this was an application for justice, not indulgence. He wished to set the right hon. Secretary right as to one point. He was present when the sentence was passed on Mr. Finnerty, and the jail then mentioned, he perfectly recollected, was the castle of Lincoln. He contended that the statement in the petition amounted to an allegation of solitary confinement. A learned friend of his had applied for admission; he at first got a flat refusal, but on his pressing his right of access, he was told that Mr. Finnerty did not wish to see any body; this evasion would not serve; his friend insisted upon Yes or No, and intimidated them into their duty. The teamed gentleman then proceeded to comment upon the great hardship and injustice of lodging in the hands of a gaoler a power he might so easily pervert to satisfy the mean purposes of private pique. He insisted that the allegations of Mr. Finnerty respecting the dampness and noisome smell of the room were perfectly correct. Let the magistrates or gaoler who doubted them be treated with a night or two's lodging in the same apartment, and perhaps they might be then better disposed to agree with him. A common sewer passed, through the middle of the room immediately under the flooring, and emitted a most noisome effluvia.Mr. Brougham
738 repeated what he before said as to the advice he should give for the redress of Mr. Finnerty, stating at the same time, that he had understood that
738Mr. Ryder
 said that it appeared from various statements of Mr. Finnerty, that the gaoler had acted towards him in the most brutal manner possible, answering all his applications for redress by messages through the turnkey conveyed in terms the most insolent and scandalous. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would engage to get Mr. Finnerty one of the front apartments in the more airy part of the prison.Mr. Whitbread
730 said, he knew not what Mr. Finnerty's conduct might have been; but the charge rested entirely on the
730Mr. Whitbread
723 stated in explanation, that he had not given notice of his present motion, because he had become possessed of "the correspondence as published in America, only within the last forty eight hours. When the right hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Canning) had the seals of the foreign department, although as much indisposed to grant papers as any man, he never refused his assent to their production on the assertion that they had already been published in another form. He denied the possibility of his remarks producing any ill effect on the negociation with America. The object of his motion was to prevent the right hon. gent. from putting into the mouth of the Regent at the opening of the next session such assertions as he had put into his mouth at the commencement of the present session. The right hon. gent. taunted him with hostility to his own government. If "he had sworn allegiance to ministers, the accusation might have been well founded; but his allegiance was due to the throne;
723Mr. Whitbread
719718717716 resumed his observations, with respect to the Report of the Committee on the Wearers' Petition. He was quite convinced that that Report was a proper one, and that no measure, particularly one of pecuniary aid, could be adopted for the relief of the sufferers. To attempt such a mode of assistance would be to throw water on a furnace, the necessary cones-
719718717716Mr. Whitbread
 expressed his regret that he should not have it in his power to be present on Monday. He still thought that the question, for the discussion of which he had prepared himself, might immediately be proceeded with, the more especially, as it was evident that no measure of relief could be afforded. He was about to proceed with some remarks, on a subject which he stated to be intimately connected with the present, whenMr. Whitbread
 remarked, that although it was a dropped order, yet at the present period of the session, it might be advisable to proceed with it.Mr. Whitbread
 said that a friend of his had been denied access to Mr. Finnerty.Mr. Babington
 admitted that the conversation alleged to have been held with the prisoner by the magistrates was, on their part, very reprehensible, but there could be no doubt, that even in saying what they did, their motive could not hare been of any base or unworthy description.Mr. D. Giddy
 declared that his hon. and learned friend had said every thing he meant to have said upon the subject. If the gaoler could put a man in solitary confinement, how was that man to get redress? He gave, perhaps, a letter to the turnkey to put in the post-office, and he threw it behind the fire—how then was it to be known? The man might die, and the gaoler might report him as having died in a fit, and bring in all his turnkeys to swear to it. He wished to know, who was answerable for all this? which of the five parties already mentioned in the course of the debate had the responsibility? was it the Secretary for the home department, the court of King's bench, the magistrates, the sheriff, or the gaoler?Mr. William Smith
 declared, that most of the principal merchants with whom he had the honour of being acquainted, were of opinion that the orders in council had been most wise and salutary.Sir C. Price
 was extremely sorry that it was not in his power to propose some measure for the relief of the Petitioners. He was glad, however, that the Petition had been referred to a Committee, as the Petitioners themselves would be better satisfied, when they found that although the House could give no relief, they had bestowed their serious attention to the case which had been laid before them. It was certainly a most afflicting consideration, that in the town of Manchester and its vicinity there were no less than 25,400 persons, who had in some shape or another, received parish relief in the present yearColonel Stanley
 observed, that the Report of the Committee being now before the House, it must be disposed of in some regular manner.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
742 rose to make some observations respecting the Petition of Mr. Finnerty, which had been presented to the House on Friday. The hon. gentleman said he rose for the purpose of vindicating the magistracy of the county of Lincoln from any imputations which the allegations contained in that Petition might have a tendency to excite. He spoke, then, generally of them as a body of gentlemen every way worthy of the trust reposed in them. He next adverted to the severe and cruel treatment which Mr. Finnerty complained of having received from the gaoler. He affirmed, on the contrary, that the treatment had been most kind and indulgent, till the impropriety of Mr. Finnerty's conduct had rendered a more rigorous sort of treatment absolutely necessary. As to the apartment of which so much had been said, he had been in it. It was a room 22 feet by 11, and 16 feet high. There was one window of 4 feet by 4½ feet; and when ht was there, he did not perceive
742Mr. Chaplin
 said, that nothing had fallen from the hon. gentleman to alter at all in his mind the material points of this most extraordinary case. He was not disposed to question the title of the magistrates in general of the county of Lincoln, to the character given of them by the hon. gentleman; but of this he was clear, that if they, or any of them, held with Mr. Finnerty such a conversation as he charged them with having held, they were no longer fit to hold their offices as magistrates—and if the conduct of the gaoler was such as had been represented, he thought that that person should no longer be suffered to abuse a trust of which he must in such case have proved himself so unworthy. What! was it to be endured that a gaoler should turn the sufferings of his unfortunate prisoners into a source of emolument? Mr. Finnerty was suffering the sentence of the law—but was he therefore removed out of the protection of the law? Was this gaoler to be allowed to play the part of his brother in the Beggar's Opera, who had his fetters of all prices, and was loading captain Macheath with an enormous pair, until the captain bribed him to afford him a lighter? He trusted the House would interfere to prevent such unconstitutional oppression.Mr. Howarth
 replied, that the coercions sabsequently imposed upon Mr. Finnerty might have been found necessary in consequence of his attempts to seduce the under officer of the prison from his duty. So far from his confinement having been solitary, he was allowed a servant, who was in constant attendance on him.Mr. Chaplin
744 said, be should be extremely sorry that a question of such great public importance should pass over like a matter of course without any observation. Although the passing of Insolvent Bills, from time to time, became necessary from the defect of our laws, the very necessity of them was a reproach to our law. He thought that it would be infinitely better, that some general act should be passed on some fixed principle: for example, that after an imprisonment of twelve, or six months, or any other fixed time, any debtor should be intitled to his liberty on his giving up his property. By the existing law the creditor was entitled to imprison his debtor for life, yet the legislature found that this was a system on which it
744Sir S. Romilly
 spoke to order.The Chancellor of the Excheguer
748 was always averse to the House giving such pledges unless there was something very particular in the nature and urgency of the measure proposed, as without such a pledge it was competent to any member of parliament to bring the subject forward as early as he pleased in the next session; and the giving the pledge, while it did not really bind the House to adopt any particular motion, would yet appear to the public like pronouncing an opinion upon the subject, and holding out some sort of promise, that an alteration was to be made.,. Now, when a former administration thought proper to raise the income tax to ten percent, he thought they had acted wisely and manfully; and although he did not agree with them in the argument, that it would
748The Chancellor of the Exchequer
connem746 rose to move for public Monuments to the memory of major-general Mackenzie and brigadier-general Lang-worth, who fell at the battle of Talavera. He was extremely concerned, that he was so misconceived on Friday as to be understood to mean sir W. Myers in his notice. Although he
connem746The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that it was certainly quite new in the proceedings of parliament, for members to be questioned in that House about what passed at tavern dinners.The Speaker
 suggested, that it was the usual course in such cases for some gentleman to move the farther consideration of the Report at some day beyond the probable duration of the session.The Speaker
 said, that should the case of the Petitioners come before the House next session, he should then feel it to be his duty to enquire into the causes that led to their distresses.Lord A. Hamilton
743 said that the most serious part of the charge against the gaoler, that of his having aggravated the sentence of the court, which was mere deprivation of liberty, into the infinitely more grievous punishment of solitary confinement—that part of the charge had not been touched upon by the hon. gentleman. This was, perhaps, the most important part of the question, whether a gaoler being entrusted with the charge of two defendants, both sentenced for the same offence to the same term of imprisonment, could, at the suggestion of his own caprice, or for purposes of his own emolument, make those punishments essentially different which the court
743Mr. Brougham
 said, that this paper would go to India, and might do a great deal of mischief there. It appeared to him a matter of such public importance, that he must, in some way or other, bring it before parliament.Mr. Prendergast
l wished to put a question to some hon. members, whom he then saw in their places. He read from a newspaper, the proceedings of the Missionary Society, at a public dinner. To those resolutions were signed the names of Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Babington, Mr. Grant, and Mr. H. Thornton. The part to which his attention was particularly directed, was that Resolution by which 250lMr. Prendergast
745 rose to move that the Report be taken into farther consideration that day month. He said that the conduct of the Petitioners throughout was highly praise-worthy, and such as must excite the greatest sympathy for their misfortunes. He, however, deprecated the idea of reviewing the general policy of the government of the country in an investigation of this nature. If any gentleman saw anything wrong in the general policy of the government,—it should be brought forward as a substantive measure, and not blended with the sufferings of any particular class of
745Mr. Davies Giddy
 gave his testimony also to the temper and patience of the Petitioners. He hoped their good sense would see the impossibility of that House interfering to compel the masters not to lower their prices, and that they would wait with patience till the circumstances of the country would effect; their relief; applying themselves in the interim to the other, branches of the trade which could be turned to any account.—The motion then passed in the affirmative.Mr. W. Smith
749ll admitted that the tax as it stood was free from many of the objections which attached to it in its original state. It had been matter of astonishment to him that, as it first stood, any minister should have ventured to propose such a tax for the endurance of a free people, or that it could have been pressed down their throats without military force. The rigid inquisition into the private fortunes of individuals had been even more offensive than its inequality; now, however, it was certainly less objectionable. In its original Slate it was almost exactly the tax, which the revolutionary tribunal proposed to impose in London, provided they conquered it, as had been shewn in one of the daily prints at that time. But even to the tax as it existed at present, he thought the hon. baronet's objections well founded. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the notion of a tax upon capital would lead to a levelling principle, if pushed to an extreme; but suppose the principle of the tax on income, which it was at present, were pushed to an extreme; a person having 60749llMr. W. Smith
 in referring to the orders in council, did not think that as yet the advantages arising from them were so great, or the dangers to be apprehended from their continuance so alarming, as to make persons quite positive as to their ultimate result either way. He confessed, however, that even from what they bad already done, if he was not very sanguine, he indulged strong hopes; they had revived our trade, and almost annihilated that of the enemy. He spoke highly of the merits of the petitioners.Mr. Wilberforce,
 hoped, that by the next session gentlemen would be disposed to acknowledge the propriety of passing some general act upon this subject; as the Insolvent acts now operated, they did almost as much evil as good, as they certainly let out a great number of fraudulent debtors.Sir T. Turton
 shortly replied. He never had an idea of taking the whole tax off the lower classes, and placing it on the higher; but he thought a medium of approximation might be hit upon; and it was on the principle of contributing according to ability, that he wished to advocate the measure, if ever there was a period in which there was necessity for ministers to consider how far the people could contribute from inability, the present was unquestionably that period. Every thing that could be done by courage and noble exertion he was confident would be effected, but the struggle he was convinced would be long, and it would be highly necessary to husband our means of carrying on the war. It was impossible we could hold out otherwise against the superior population of Prance, because for every 5,000 men we lost, they could afford to lose 20,000. This motion had engaged his serious attention for a great length of time, and he thought it so important, that even if he should now fail in it, he would certainly bring it forward in the course of the next session.Sir T. Turton
lllllll rose in pursuance of the motion of which he had given notice. He thought it was most evident, that the Property-tax, as it was called, was very unequal in its operation, and very oppressive on many classes of society. A person who had 200lllllllSir Thomas Turton
 said he was not aware of any difficulty under which Mr. Mason laboured, as to the possibility of bringing forward his case. He did not believe that any act of indemnity followed the year in which he was confined and therefore it was competent to him to bring his action. He was sure the House would agree that persons might be confined upon information which government could not disclose, without shutting itself out from such sources of information in future. If the question was brought before a jury, if it was evident that government was not actuated by any malicious feeling towards the individual, and that the Habeas Corpus act was not unnecessarily suspended, he was sure that no judge or jury Mould award damages, and therefore Mr. Mason might have acted properly in not appealing to the law. He thought his right hon. friend was right in recording the motion, especially as the House would be able to pursue the subject in a committee of its own, if it should not approve of the conduct of the investigators now appointed,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
755 said, the doctrines laid down by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to him of such a nature, that if they were true, we appeared to have no security for personal liberty in this country, more than what was possessed by men in other countries. If a gentleman was to be kept in solitary confinement for two years, and the grounds upon which government acted were not to be made known to him, it was impos-
755Sir F. Burdett
 in explanation said, that he only justified bills of indemnity in cases where rebellion was known to exist, and where its existence was recognized by parliament, and not in the general way attributed to him by the hon. baronet.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that at the time of the suspension of that act in Ireland, a rebellion (lid exist; and it was necessary' that government should be entrusted with greater powers than usual.Sir C. Burrell
 said, he should be sorry in voting for the present motion, if any one should suppose that he was any wise reflecting on the character of lord Hardwicke, of whose administration the leading features were lenity and conciliation. At the lime when Mr. Mason was arrested there was no rebellion in Ireland,' but merely an alarm and suspicion; and there was every appearance, from the anxiety which that gentleman displayed to have his case examined into, that he was innocent but in sending this investigation to the Irish government, there was no imputation thrown on the Irish government, because it was perfectly possible for the chief governor, however amiable, to have been misled, and for acts of the greatest outrage to have been committed under his auspices under the pretext of keeping down rebellion; and though he was not for charging the noble earl with countenancing these oppressive measures, yet he would say, that the greatest outrages which were committed in 1798, were not committed by the rebels, but by those who acted under the government. To his knowledge several innocent individuals had been ruined by the measures adopted towards them, and then let loose on the country without retribution or compensation.Mr. Hutchinson
 presented the Tenth Report of the Committee of Public Expenditure, which was laid on the table. In moving that the Report be printed, he begged leave to call the attention of the House to it, as it contained what he conceived to be matter of the greatest importance. It related to the speedy audit of accounts, which would tend more than any thing else to check an improvident waste of the public money. He had long wished to bring the subject of the tardy examination of military and regimental accounts before the House, but had never been able to do so till this session. These accounts were even in a worse condition than the civil accounts. Regulations were proposed to remedy the evil; and though much yet remained to be done, he trusted that a most useful foundation was laid. The execution of the de tails he left to his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who he believed was well disposed to these improvements.—The Report was then ordered to be printed.Mr. Bankes
 said that neither he, nor his hon. friend (Mr. Wilberforce) had ever heard of the measure alluded to till it was read at a meeting of the society for propagating the knowledge of Christianity in Africa chiefly, and also in the East. But he had felt no alarm at the passage in question. It referred merely to a recommendation of the Committee of that society in the East, that the Scriptures should be read in public to the people in their native language. The Hindoo and Mahometan Scriptures were read publicly already, and the reading of the Christian Scriptures in the same manner, would give no offence whatever. But even this could not be attempted without the sanction of the government; and the regulations of the government on this subject, if at all erring, fired rather on the side of extreme prudence and caution. He trusted he need make no apology for the Committee in this country'. There was no intention to enforce this measure by any authority of government, or any compulsory means whatever. It was only proposed to leave the matter to make its own way.Mr. Grant
760 called the attention of the House to the case of a soldier who had been lately condemned to be flogged in the Isle of Wight, for being absent at night. It appeared from this, that the discretionary power given in the mutiny act, was not likely to be attended with much effect in prevent-
760Sir F. Burdett
, in reply, said, he, did not well know how to answer the question of the hon. member. He did not see why the duties of the respective offices might not be discharged in the same manner as they had hitherto been, though held by one person. Whatever business belonged to the office of Chief Secretary would be done just as if the Chief Secretary was not Chancellor of the Exchequer, and whatever belonged to the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer would be done as if the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not Chief secretary The arrangement was merely an experiment, which need not be persevered in if it was not found to succeed. For his own part, he could not understand what was meant by a control of a board of treasury over the executive government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
753 seconded the motion. As far as his noble relation and himself were concerned, they wished for investigation; but there were a few points in the speech of the right hon. gent., upon which he was desirous to make some observations. The right hon. gent. had said, that this was an instance of unexampled oppression; this unexampled oppression, however, he had brought forward two or three times before, but had always appointed a late day for the discussion, and after several disappointments, submitted it at length almost on the last day of the session. Surely if the case did amount to an unexampled oppression, the right hon. gent. would not have, delayed so long. But the right hon. gent. had said, what the petition itself did not state, that the gentleman on, whose behalf; he applied to the House, had been confined in a place described to be loathsome and abominable. The Report of the commissioners said the contrary. The right hon. gent. had also maintained, that if the grounds upon which any person was confined were not stated, individuals would be exposed to constant oppression: but the gentleman in question was confined under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act and the argument, if good for any thing, would go against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act, which was not the point at issue. The fact was, that from the Revolution down, the Crown had constantly exercised such a power, for the purpose of prevention not of punishment. He approved of the wish manifested by the petitioner to retrieve his character; it was honourable—and as it was proposed that government itself should give him the opportunity, he should feel himself guilty of an act of injustice were he to refuse. He hoped the intelligence he had received might prove to be false. Mr. Mason was taken up at the time when the detestable insurrection broke out, in 1803,
753Mr. Yorke
 bore testimony to the mild government of lord Hardwicke, and expressed his confidence, that however this investigation might turn out, that noble lord would be found to deserve the think of the House.Sir H. Montgomery
 said he was satisfied with the explanation, and would not press his motion.Mr. Prendergast
759, after stating that no one could be more desirous than he was to extend the light of Christianity wherever it could be done with effect and advantage, observed that he felt himself called upon to bring the subject of Missions to the East before the House, in consequence of a pa-
759Mr. Prendergast
 said, that such was the lenity of lord Hardwicke, that when Secretary, he had been desired by him to examiner in to the cases of the several prisoners, and to report them to him, with the anxious desire to find out any thing in their favour. He then mentioned the treatment of Mr. Mason, which, he was satisfied, would be found to have been perfectly proper.Mr. Long
758757 denied that any charge was meant to be brought against lord Hardwicke. All that was alledged, was that lord Hardwicke had been deceived. But the chief point to which he was anxious to advert, was, the view which had been taken of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. Most erroneous notions were entertained even by lawyers on this subject. Many gentlemen appeared to think, that by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, government might upon the slightest suspicion, seize any one, and confine him without a trial as long as it pleased. The suspension gave no such power. He maintained that it never had been so acted upon since the Revolution till Mr. Pitt's administration.
758757Mr. Sheridan
752751750 said, the case of Mr. St. John Mason, which he was now bringing before the House, was one of the most
752751750Mr. Sheridan
754 wished to do away every unfavourable impression which the distance of time might make on the mind of the House. He had met the petitioner occasionally at the house of a common friend, and if any delay had taken place in bringing his case forward, he could take it on him to say, that it was not attributable to him, though other gentlemen might innocently enough be the cause of it, because he would take it upon him to "ay that Mr. Mason was incessantly endeavouring to forward his petition. If Mr. Mason had not good and sufficient grounds, he could not imagine he would be so anxious to procure an examination in public, in private, or in any other way. He acted like a man conscious of his own innocence. It might very well happen that, in a country like Ireland, where parties were in such a state of exasperation, if anonymous information were listened to, an innocent man might become the victim of party spleen and malice. The right hon. gent. (Mr. Yorke) had said, the argument extended to all Habeas Corpus suspension cases. He confessed he was more anxious for the general than the individual case. The public safety mightdemand occasional suspensions of the
754Mr. W. Smith
 said that his right hon. friend who brought forward the motion was not acquainted with the time in which the petitioner was imprisoned. He (Sir Evan Nepean) was not in Ireland when Mr. Mason was taken into custody, but having arrived there shortly after, he had entered minutely into an investigation of the circumstances, and concluded from thence, that if government had not arrested him, it would have been guilty of misconduct. He had afterwards, by the order of lord Hardwicke, examined into the cases of all the state prisoners, and if there were any favourable circumstances in that of Mr. Mason he should have been glad to have released him. He had also examined the place of his confinement, and found it to be clean and comfortable; and, having gone at periods when he was not expected, found every thing conducted with an attention to the comforts of the prisoners.Sir Evan Nepean
761, in requesting the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give to the House some explanation of the motives which had led to the arrangemet by which the Chief Secretary for Ireland was to hold the office of Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer, did not intend to express an opinion against it. He should wait to form his opinion upon the explanation that might be given. He could not help, however, viewing it with some suspicion, because it seemed to be altogether inconsistent with that principle, which ought to govern the finances of Ireland; the principle of a superintending control of a board of treasury. It had been an object for many years in the Irish parliament to acquire such a control. The Bill which established it was termed the Responsibility Bill, a name implying that so long as the management of the finances was in the hands of the lord lieutenant, there was no adequate responsibility.—Now, this proceeding of making the lord lieutenant's secretary Chancellor of the Exchequer, looked very like a recurrence to the old system; and as if it was intended to put aside the board of treasury. If this was the case, it would be as well to say so, and then the public might be saved the expence of paying salaries to a number of useless lords of the treasury. As the chief secretary for Ireland was in that capacity subordinate to the lord lieutenant, and would be in the capacity of Chancellor of the Exchequer, subordinate to the right hon. gent. opposite, (Mr. Perceval) from his being first lord of the Irish treasury; the question to which he more immediately required an answer was this; whether the communications that would hereafter be made to the several boards of Commissioners in Ireland employed in the collection of the Revenue, would be made in the name of the lord lieutenant, or in the name of the treasury, and with the concurrence of the right hon. gent? The answer to this question would decide whether or not the finances of Ireland were to
761Mr. Parnell
762 was glad to find the measure was merely an experiment, because he was sure, after what had fallen from the right hon. gent. that it was an impolitic one, inasmuch as the constitutional control of a board of treasury over the finances of Ireland was to be set aside. Such a control over the lord lieutenant was absolutely necessary; because it was the influence and patronage which the lord lieutenant derived from the revenue department that
762Mr. Parnell
775 after some prefatory observations, in which he said that he had received a letter from the under sheriff of Lincoln, declaring that Mr. Finnerty had offered money for other apartments; as also a statement from a magistrate, in contradiction of what had been advanced by Mr. Finnerty, presented a Petition from Mr. Merryweather, the gaoler of Lincoln Castle, setting forth775Mr. Chaplin,
 said, it was not a felon's cell; bat designed for those confined for misdemeanors.Mr. Chaplin
 utterly denied the charge of solitary confinement, which was not even alledged in Mr. Finnerty's petition. As to the gaoler having thirteen rooms in his house, they took that from Mr. Finnerty's petition. But supposing it to be so, the gaoler's house was his freehold, and he was not bound to give up any part of it to the prisoners. It ought to be recollected that he gave a large security to the sheriff for the safe custody of his prisoners. He had been making ail the inquiry he could; and the result was a conviction that for some pans of the complaint of Mr. Finnerty there was not the slightest ground, and that the rest had been excessively exaggerated. The apartment assigned to him was 22 feet by 11, and 16 feet high, and raised above a yard of some extent, of which Mr. Finnerty had almost the exclusive use. But if there was a stench, or any other real grievance in the case, steps had been taken to remove them.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 defended the conduct of the gaoler, who had given Mr. Finnerty the liberty of walking in his garden, and shewed a disposition to grant him every indulgence consistent with his situation, till his own improper conduct rendered a closer confinement necessary. As a proof that no political motive influenced the gaoler, lie had only to advert to the satisfaction expressed by Mr. Drakard at the manner in which he had been treated.Mr. Chaplin
 expressed his firm conviction that there were cases in which severe corporeal punishment in a regiment was indispensable, unless indeed death in such cases was to be uniformly resorted to. As to solitary imprisonment, that he was persuaded was in few instances practicable. The hon. baronet was proceeding to explain his views of the subject, whenSir C. Burrell
781 declered, that if the hon. gent, thought it necessary for any one of his Majesty's ministers, by a disavowal of the publications which had been described, to clear himself from the implication of the criminality attached to them, he was very glad that an opportunity had been afforded him for making such a disavowal; but he did trust that the hon. gent. had shewn more than necessary anxiety on the subject. He had no hesitation instating that he could not conceive the existence of any circumstances which would justify the promulgation of sentiments, such as had been described. He perfectly agreed with the hon. gent., that putting out of the question the divine prohibition of murder, those who were disposed to have recourse to such means of hostility, would find them injurious rather
781The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 interposed, and suggested the propriety of abstaining from any general discussion, there being no question before the House.The Speaker
 declared it to be his intention, in the next session, once more to bring Mr. Palmer's Claims under the consideration of parliament in the shape of a Bill, when he trusted that this subject would receive its final discussion and decision.Colonel Palmer
 said, that facts had been stated which amounted to solitary confinement, though these words were not used.Mr. Brougham
776 said that no answer had been given to the charge of solitary confinement. He knew that Mr. Drakard had been well treated; but this only placed in a stronger light the injustice done to MR. Finnerty. The sentences were the
776Mr. Brougham
 stated, that the motion of which his hon. friend, who was not then present, had given notice for the next session of parliament, was not founded on any particular instance of severity, but would proceed on the general question of the expediency of corporeal punishments in the army.Mr. Brougham
 admitted, that the case of this individual was not one of peculiar severity, but at the same time contended that it by no means operated against the argument for the abolition of flogging. Since the last discussion on this subject, he had received a letter, which to him appeared practically conclusive upon it. It was from a person having the chief" command of the recruiting parties in a district of the country in which the temptations to recruits to act in a manner meriting punishment were peculiarly strong. This officer, however, declared in his letter, in the most emphatic language, that he found corporeal punishment to be completely unnecessary, and that the triangles, if there were any in his district, were mouldering away in a garret.Mr. Whitbread
780779778 observed, that as the House was unoccupied at that moment, he hoped he might be indulged with saying a few words, which it was otherwise his intention to have offered to their notice on the question of adjournment. His object in rising was to give the right hon. gent. opposite, or any other of his Majesty's ministers, an
780779778Mr. Whitbread
 thanked the right hon. gentleman for his frank and honourable disavowal. He would not quarrel with him because he had added to that disavowal incitements to national exertion. He trusted that no expression of his would be construed into the declaration that he was a fatalist, or that he thought it impossible to resist the power of France. Ha must be a fool, indeed, to entertain such an opinion at a moment when the power of France was resisted more effectually than at any former period of the present awful contest. Whatever he might think of the ultimate fate of the nations of Europe—whatever opinion he might entertain of the intentions of providence with respect to that extraordinary being who had hitherto possessed such a powerful influence over that fate, he was not the less convinced of the duty of resistance to his designs—of the duty of defending our liberties, even should extermination be the consequence. But it was not for an individual to step forward, and with a criminal hand attempt to accelerate the result. Such attempts were ever destructive of their object. He welt remembered the rejoicings that were occasioned in this country by the news of the assassination of the emperor Paul. It was then said that Russia would turn against France. She did so turn. A most absurd coalition took place between Great Britain and Russia—and what followed? that Russia was completely subjugated, and that the successor of the assassinated Paul became one of the firmest friends of France.Mr. Whitbread
 was glad that this Petition of the gaoler had come forward, as it contained a specification of the charge against Mr. Finnerty. But, supposing it true, it was not therefore proper that Mr. Finnerty should be kept five or six weeks from air and exercise, at the discretion of the gaoler. He had a letter from Mr. Finnerty, however, purporting that the turnkey had made the offer to him for a bribe, and on his refusal had told this story in order to be before hand with him. Then there was no answer given as to the stench in Mr. Finnerty's cell. The hon. gent had said, there was no stench when he was there. That might well be, fur it often happened that the prevalence of stench in any particular place depended on the direction of the wind. He hoped the prayer of the petition would be complied with; but it was clear a gaoler ought not to have the power of increasing or mitigating a sentence of a court of justice at his discretion.Mr. Whitbread
777 adverting to a case mentioned by an hon. baronet (Sir Francis Burden) the other evening, of a man of the name of Evans, who had cut his throat in the Isle of Wight to avoid being flogged, observed that the hon. baronet laboured under considerable misapprehension on the subject. On inquiry he learnt from the general of the district, that the name of the man alluded to by the hon. baronet was not Evans, but Avery. He had come to the Isle of Wight from Tilbury, as a recruit of a suspicious character. As soon as he had received the final payment of his bounty, this man with three others deserted; but being subsequently taken in plain clothes by a press-gang at Ryde, he was brought back to the depot, and tried by a court martial. Before, however, the sentence of the court martial had been promulgated, this man attempted to cut his throat. Such was the statement
777Mr. Manners Sutton,
882 rose to move for certain papers, upon the subject of the prosecution against a man of the name of De Yonge, convicted of selling guineas. To this motion he understood
882Lord Folkestone
883 should not have been surprised at the motion of the noble lord, if he had imputed to those who carried on the prosecution against De Yonge any unnecessary delay, or improper conduct in bringing it on for trial; not having so done, he could not see on what grounds he desired the papers. He had not imputed blame to any one, and with respect to the delay which had necessarily taken
883The Attorney General
 admitted that great learning, and much research had been displayed in the arguments. He did not mean by stating that the arguments were incomplete to impute a defect, but to shew that the judges were not satisfied with them.Lord Folkestone
888887ll886885884 said, before he moved the first reading of the Bill brought from the Lords, he wished to make a few observations respecting it, both as to its provisions, and to the circumstances by which he was induced to give it his support. It was with a sentiment of deep regret that he could even come to parliament for the purpose of recommending such a Bill, but this sentiment became much stronger from a consideration of the advanced period of the session, and the limited attendance that could be expected on a discussion of such peculiar importance. The regret that he felt in the first place was founded on the recollection that for the last fourteen years the paper of the Bank of England had been able to uphold itself in public estimation. During those fourteen years, trials and exertions had been undergone by the country of the severest and most extensive nature, difficulties of unexampled magnitude had been encountered, and yet the circulating paper had maintained its credit. Through this long period of danger and of exertion, while the military operations of the country abroad were carried on upon a scale the most extensive, bank notes had retained their current value, and the prosperity and strength of the, country, had flourished without diminution or decay. It was, then, not our, great and glorious
888887ll886885884The Chancellor of the Exchequer
890889 said, that although it was unusual to enter at large into any discussion upon the first reading of a Bill, yet as the right hon. gentleman had given so ample a statement, and as he was desirous of leaving the debate on the usual stage, the second reading, to his hon. friends, who would enter fully into the question, he trusted he might be permitted to make a few observations in the present instance. The right hon. gentleman, in support of a Bill which he could only consider in itself as a Bill calling on that House to be a party in committing a gross fraud upon the public; as a Bill, threatening in its consequences ruin to the established forms and institutions of the country, set out with an attack on the conduct of a noble lord (King) whom he was proud to call his noble friend, because he knew his private worth, and his incapacity to do any thing inconsistent with public virtue. He begged leave to ask the right hon. gentleman whether, before he heard of the intention of the noble lord, he was ignorant that Bank notes were depreciated 20 per cent.? and if he was not thus ignorant, what ought the House to think of a minister, who, perfectly sensible of what it was the interest of the land owner to do, could have intended parliament to separate on the supposition that the land owner would not choose to prosecute his evident interest, and his legal right? Was he ignorant of the law, and did he presume that by virtue of his office, he could oppress and intimidate any individual, who, during the recess, might venture to act upon that interest? Sensible that such conduct in individuals afforded a contradiction to all their arguments, which was plain and palpable to the understandings and business
890889Mr. Abercromby
 thought the motion unnecessary, and took an opportunity of explaining what had fallen from him early in the evening on the subject of making bank paper a legal tender. He had said if the present measure did not succeed, (and it might not if a combination were formed against it) the same necessity which had imposed this, might drive him to the measure of which he had spoken. He hoped this would prove effectual, but at the same time, if it did not, justice might require that they should go further, and make bank paper a legal tender.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
903902 said, that for the last 14 years they had always been liable to such a proceeding as that adopted by the noble lord, at the caprice of any individual, and the wonder was, perhaps, that they had gone so long without some such inconvenience occurring; and yet they might have gone on longer had it not been for a want of moderation in the bank in issuing their notes. For the present unfortunate state of things, there was, in his opinion, no certain cure, except in regulating those issues so as to enable the bank to resume payments in cash. But he would not restrict them peremptorily to the period of
903902Mr. Bankes
905904 would not have trespassed on the time of the House in the present stage of the proceeding, were it not for the unjust attacks which had been made on a noble lord for doing no more than he was entitled to, and which justice to his own family required him to do. How could it be pretended that a landlord was not entitled to demand his rent to be paid without depreciation, at the very time when the tenant was selling the produce of his farm with reference to this very depreciation in the paper currency of the kingdom? He recollected the language, which, at the commencement of the French Revolution, was held by gentlemen on the other side of the House with regard to the French assignats. Their tone, however, was now completely changed, and was to be compared to nothing but what they then attributed to Robespierre and his associates, from which the down-fall of the credit of France was prognosticated. He trusted, however, that the present measure would have this good effect;
905904Sir F. Burdett
l906 most perfectly accorded in the view taken of the subject by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He considered the whole honour of the measure to be due to lord Stanhope. He did not wish to speak disrespectfully of lord King; but when his leases expired, he thought that noble lord would find some difficulty in getting the same respectable tenants again. He had found no difficulty in posing bank notes, except that which
l906Sir C. Burrell
 did not intend to notice the whole of the arguments made use of by gentlemen opposite, but he felt it necessary to explain some points of his speech, which had been commented on in the course of the debate. With respect to what he had said on the subject of the limitation of the act as to time, he should be sorry if the House were to separate with an idea that he wished it to be understood that the measure was wholly to terminate on the 24th of March. He had pointed to the manner in which the act was framed, to shew that it must again, come under the consideration of parliament early in the next session, and not to insinuate that there was a probability that at the period named, all necessity for such a measure would be at an end. An hon. gent. had asked him what he would do with respect to the mode of enforcing the Bill? On this subject he had to observe, that on such a Bill coming from the Lords without any penal clause, it by no mean followed, that no such provision was to be made, as a clause of that description could not originate in the other House. It was his intention to propose one in a future stage of the Bill.—He then proceeded to vindicate what he had advanced on the subject of lord King's conduct, and defended himself from the charge of having thrown any unjust aspersion on the character of that noble lord. When he used the expression of "pedlaring and smuggling," he had merely said, "that he did not believe that in any case but in transactions of that description, any person could be found to have adopted the mode of proceeding recommended by the noble lord." The change of opinion which had been spoken of, had only occurred when it was found that there was a large party disposed to encourage, countenance, and patronize such conduct, though no one had avowed an intention of following it. When that was found to be the case, the measure was thought to be necessary to guard against interested persons taking advantage of the opportunity afforded and encouraged by the applause bestowed on the noble lord.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved that the Bill be read a second time on Monday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, disclaimed any intention of wishing to be considered as giving any other opinion than that of a private and individual member.Mr. Baring,
897896895 said, that those who had
897896895Mr. A. Baring
 announced it as his determination to oppose the Bill in every stage. He complained of the absurd provisions made by one of its clauses which went to exclude Ireland from the pretended benefits of the Bill, though the evil it professed to remedy existed to so much greater an extent in that country than in any other part of the united kingdom.Lord Archibald Hamilton
900899898 said, that after hearing the speech of the hon. gent. who had just sat down, it was impossible for him to give a silent vote on the present occasion. More monstrous doctrine he had never heard in that House than the doctrine which had just fallen from the hon. gent. He pitied the members who had left the House two months ago, after they had been told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the present question had been then set at rest. He told them then, that the intrinsic value of Bank notes was not equal to their nominal value; and this the right hon. gent. did not choose to dispute; but he solved the difficulty by stating, that Bank notes were equal to guineas in the public estimation. After having reported this to their constituents, it was rather unfortunate that one of the first things they should hear of was, that Bank notes were to be made a legal tender. And who were the advocates for this measure? Its advocates were two of the most suspicious characters in the world—the Chancellor of the Exchequer and a Bank Director.—(Hear, hear!) Much had been said about sounding an alarm; but no person could give occasion to a more well founded alarm than the gentleman who had just sat down. When he heard such monstrous doctrines, he thought the only safety for the country Was to take the alarm, that they might save their property from destruction. The hon. gent. had said that the Bank had no interest in the present state of things. He believed, however, that there was an understanding between the Bank Directors and the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this subject; and he believed that even if such men as lord Stanhope and lord King had never lived they would have fallen on this plan, because it had been avowed by the right hon. gent. over the way, that such a plan was in Mr. Pitt's mind. He did not believe that Mr. Pitt was of opinion that a compulsory tender would be proper. He acquitted Mr. Pitt of ever entertaining any such opinion, whatever hostility he might have shewn to his measures. But the pre-sent Chancellor of the Exchequer saw the matter in a different light. He saw no other remedy, but this measure—and so said the hon. Bank Director. But it seem-ed there was to be a bargain between the high contracting parties. You who are in the government, are pot to be so profuse
900899898Mr. Tierney
 moved as an Amendment, "That the House be called over on Monday se'nnight.Mr. Tierney
 would not oppose the first reading of the Bill, as he did not object to its introduction to the House, although in its passage through, there were parts of it which he might feel it his duty strongly to object to.Mr. Dent
894893maximum892891 expressed his surprise, that after the very able speech of his hon. and learned friend, none of the right honourable gentlemen opposite should have thought it necessary to say something in answer to the objections which had been so strongly urged against their own measure—for as such he should consider it. He thought that the right honourable the Chancellor of the Exchequer had indulged in observations which were by no means warranted by the conduct of the noble lord upon whom they were intended to bear so hard. That noble lord bad done nothing more than he was justified in doing, both in law and in equity. He thought, too, that the insinuations which were so invidiously thrown out by the right hon. gentleman against another noble
894893maximum892891Mr. Whitbread
 said, the right hon. gent. in objecting to the motion, seemed to think that what fell from a person of his eminence in debate, was not enough to render it necessary to take any particular step, and justify the enforcing of the proposed call of the House. He could however recall to his memory one instance in which Mr. Pitt had taken such a step on such an occasion. In consequence of some opinion expressed by Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt thought it right to persuade the House to stop in their proceedings, and come to a decision on that opinion before they did any thing else. What was the origin of the present Bill? When it was brought in by lord Stanhope it was thought unnecessary, but in consequence of what had come out in debate, ministers had changed their opinion. The right hon. gentleman had now, in the course of debate, said that on the subject of making Bank-paper 3 legal tender, which called for the most serious consideration, and therefore he thought the House ought to be called over.Mr. Whitbread
 observing that there were about 40 members of the corporation of the Bank of England who had seats in that House, and being of opinion that they were not fit persons to legislate on the subject of the present Bill, and that 100 in the absence of the country gentlemen, while at the same time he was anxious to put on record a comparison of the nature of the interests of those gentlemen, and of the noble lord who had been so grossly calumniated in the present question, gave notice that he should, previous to the second reading of the Bill, submit to the House how far the persons alluded to were fit and proper persons to be allowed to vote on such an occasion.Mr. Creevey,
901 also protested against any such inference being drawn from what ha said; and, in answer to the charge against the Bank of a wanton and extravagant issue of notes, stated that instead of 23 millions, as returned to the House, the amount of notes outstanding on Saturday last did not exceed 22 millions. The public owed to the Bank, in the amount of its capital and in loans subsequently advanced, about 19½ millions, which was little short of their issues. He begged of gentlemen to consider this, when they talked about the solvency of the Bank. Mr. Pitt on this ground had been ready to give parliamentary security for the notes. The public had a right to know the amount of the Bank issues, and there was no wish for concealment on that head. No less than thirty-six returns had been made to the House of the amount of these issues. They had a right to know that their security was good, and he assured the House that the
901Mr. Manning
ll917 commented with some warmth upon the extraordinary auspices under which the present Bill had been introduced to the House, and the equally as extraordinary manner in which it had been at first resisted, and finally supported by his Majesty's ministers: a compulsory law to support public credit, was one which was enough in itself to excite very general alarm; the fickle conduct of his Majesty's government in first opposing, and then suddenly giving all their aid in forwarding this measure, was enough almost to excuse the suspicions which had by some persons been so unwarrantably indulged in respecting all public men. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had told them, that if that Bill failed in doing what he expected it would do, that it would then be necessary to make Bank notes a legal tender. Those, therefore, who did not expect any thing from this measure, were to argue it with a reference to that Bill, which they were told would follow after it. It was certainly but just, that if we compel the public creditor to take that paper, we ought to protect him from the loss arising out of its depreciation; but it was necessary to shew that this Bill could so protect the public creditor, before they could prove that it was necessary. He did not think that it would have any such effect; but of this he was certain, that if they were sincere in their wish to protect the public creditor from the injustice complained of, they might remove the measure that created that injustice. In alluding to the conduct of a noble lord (King), the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that certain gentlemen, who had originally opposed the Restriction act, had done so, because they apprehended that it would create a double price, and yet these same persons approved of the conduct of lord King, though so much more likely, if generally instituted, to produce that effect. To this, he would answer that lord King's conduct could have no such possible tendency, and that with respect to the apprehensions of a double price being the ultimate result of the Restriction act, they had been proved by the event to hare been but too well founded. The result of that act had verified all the predictions which had been made by those who opposed it. There was, in fact, a double price, though it could not be proved conclusively from the habits of the small retailers who bought to sell again. So that
ll917Mr. Herbert
937936ad valorem935lll observed, that the hon. gent, had gone into so much general matter, and filled his speech with so many reproaches against ministers, with so many alledged charges against judges, together with a plan for winding up the national debt at one stroke, that it would be wandering from the question to pretend to follow him. Before the decision of the judges in the cases of De Yonge and Wright, it had been imagined that the traffic in guineas was illegal, in the manner it had been carried on by those persons. But as the judges had decided that such a traffic was not illegal, he presumed the object of the present Bill was to supply the defect. He approved of it, as it shewed that the government was resolved to try all milder measures, before they resorted to the compulsory one of making Bank notes a legal tender. While they received these notes in payment of taxes, they were resolved not to allow any individuals to take them at a depreciated rate. And, as to the high price of bullion, that was the consequence, not of depreciation, but of the embarrassed state of the country. If they did not at once resort to the legal tender, it was only because they imagined the evil would stop here. If the example of the noble lord who had demanded his rents in gold were followed, the legal tender must be adopted. When suspicion was abroad—when the tenantry and yeomanry were to be imprisoned—in that convulsed state of things, this measure must be resorted to. The Bill he thought highly useful, even in its present shape, but still it might, in some respects, be altered and modified with advantage. There were two cases upon which it was intended to operate; first, upon bargains and sales, which were completed at once; and next upon standing contracts. He understood that a case had happened, where a man bought some laud from another for 400937936ad valorem935lllMr. Milne
l941lll940ll939 understood the hon. baronet to oppose the Bill, from an idea that it was unnecessary, as he conceived it to be very unlikely that the example of the noble lord would be followed to any extent. Now, after what they had heard in defence of the principle and of the practice of
l941lll940ll939Mr. Rose
ex post facto944943942 said he was at a loss how to judge of the present measure, as among the variety of persons who approv-
ex post facto944943942Lord Folkestone
971970969968967966965964963962maximummaximum961maximum960959958l957slss.l956955954953952951950949ex post facto948sl947946 rose and said:971970969968967966965964963962maximummaximum961maximum960959958l957slss.l956955954953952951950949ex post facto948sl947946Lord Castlereagh
974s. conceived that the bill contained extraordinary provisions, and had been introduced under extraordinary circumstances, in order that ministers might thereby read a recantation of the doctrines they had introduced under the resolutions grafted on the report of the Bullion Committee. The bill went to falsify all those resolutions, namely, That Bank notes were equivalent in value to the current coin of the realm. So far from that being the case, he thought that the ground of bringing the bill in was, that tenants would, if the law was not declared otherwise, be compelled to purchase guineas at the rate of 27974s.Mr. Marryatt
l.llll condemned the plan of the noble lord (King,) as leading to the most fatal consequences. If every man of great landed property were to demand guineas for their rent, would the farmer be enabled to pay them in that coin? would he not rather say, if a depreciation of 18 or 20 per cent had taken place, and the landlord should demand 120l.llllMr. J. Smith
 was not disposed to return the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer his thanks for the Bill; on the contrary he thought it most unfortunate. The conduct of lord King, which led to its introduction, he had heard panegyrised and extolled, but he believed, much as that conduct had been applauded by certain persons, there was not a respectable landlord in the country who would follow his example. Parliament, in his opinion, ought to have trusted to the confidence and honour of the country, and have rejected it altogether. The hon. gent, conceived that the House ought to be in possession of the best legal authorities in the land, as to the question whether the Sheriff's officer would be liable, in case of hurry and confusion, or what redress the tenant would obtain in a court of equity. In his opinion the only radical cure that could be resorted to, was, that of a limitation of the paper currency, which would be the means of extricating the country out of the embarassing situation into which it was plunged.Mr. Bankes
979978in terrorem.977976975 would not detain the House at that late hour of the night with any detailed discussion of the Bill before them, but would endeavour to confine himself to a few observations
979978in terrorem.977976975The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, after some observations on the necessity which would be imposed on parliament before the prorogation, to adopt measures for the relief of the suffering manufacturers in various parts of the kingdom, particularly at Nottingham moved as an amendment, that the Bill be committed on that day se'nnight. The amendment was negatived without a division, and the original motion was put and carried.Lord Folkestone
ll915 said, that after the many able and eloquent speeches which had been made on this subject, he should not trouble the House at any considerable length; but he felt it impossible to refrain from expressing his repugnance to the tendency and principles of the measure under consideration. If the Bill possessed any merit, it was in being totally inadequate to the object which the supporters of it had in view, namely, to sustain a paper currency which was not exchangeable into any thing of intrinsic value. If parliament consented to this first proposition, they must proceed to measures of a still more injurious nature. They must be compelled ultimately to adopt the maximum, and to make Bank of England notes run the full career of French assignats. The effect of that clause which prevented the provisions of the Bill from extending to Ireland, would be to give to every guinea in Great Britain a free and unincumbered passage to that country. He warmly defended the conduct of the noble lord oh whose requisition to his tenantry the present measure affected to be founded. It
ll915Mr. Eden
980 said, that the right hon. gent, had been extremely comical upon one of the most serious subjects that ever came before the House. He had joked upon his conspiracy with lord King, and he had joked, also upon his secret intrigue with lord Stanhope, and he had, then joked upon his secret consultations with lords Grey and Grenville; but here the joke was against the right hon. gent; because it Could not be forgotten, that if lords Grey and Grenville bad been willing, the right hon. gent, would have been very glad to have entered into consultation with them.—In alluding to lord King, he paid him every tribute of praise; but had he been in lord King's place, he confessed he should not have taken the step that noble lord had done. (Hear!) He wished to be perfectly, understood, in saying this, as not meaning the most distant censure on lord King, whom he believed incapable of an unworthy act. He contended that this measure was, to all intents and purposes,; making Bank notes a legal tender. What said the bill? You shall not take a guinea for more than twenty one shillings, and you shall not take a Bank note for less. Guineas: you, cannot get, therefore you must take notes, and yet this was not making them a legal tender. The passing of this bill declared to the world that the Bank of England could not goon without support. After the passing of this Bill, Bank notes would not be the notes of the Bank of England but of parliament. The Bank had been spoken of as a body of independent merchants trading on their Own capital, but it was now well known
980Mr. Tierney
 explained, that he referred to the striking off two thirds of the debt due to the public creditor, not as a proposition of his own, but as the grossest, most fatal, and most unjust of all expedients, but yet as one likely to result from the measures, the perseverance in which was recommended on the other side.Mr. Brougham
934maximum933iotall932llllllllll931930s.929928927lll926925924923, adverting to the recommendation by his hon. friend who had just spoken, to other hon. gentlemen to forget their theories, and to consider the subject singly and practically, lamented that his hon. friend had not followed up his own principle, and had not applied his excellent understanding solely to the Bill before the House. Instead of that, his hon. friend had indulged in details on the general subject; a subject out of which the present measure arose, as the presumed necessity for it was unquestionably occasioned by the rejection of the Resolution" of the Bullion Committee, but which, in any other point of view, was not only unconnected with the consideration of the present Bill, but in some degree foreign to it. His hon. friend had furnished answers to his own arguments. For instance, he had told the House (and the whole of his speech was erected on that foundation) that Bank notes were not depreciated; for that guineas and notes had equal power in the procuring of the various commodities of life; and he then urged the necessity of parliament's doing that by the present Bill, which, if his premises were true, was already done to their hands
934maximum933iotall932llllllllll931930s.929928927lll926925924923Mr. Brougham
973 said he agreed in one of the concluding observations of the noble lord, that any attempt to limit the issue of paper of the Bank of England, would not be right. He agreed also that it was not fair to compare the paper of this country with that of France. The hon. gentleman said he was of opinion the bill did not stand on the mere act of lord Sing; the discussions which it had undergone in parliament, and the opinions which had been there given, gave it a most important feature. In various cases persons had demanded cash for the debts due to them. In one instance a country bank had been prosecuted for a small sum, which' the proprietors refusal to pay in gold, and the judges cast them in the debt and costs, which they were compelled to pay. Every country banker was liable to the same form of proceeding for all the Bank notes he might issue under five pounds. The effect which might have been produced upon country banks but for this bill was incalculable, for when tenants applied to the banker for gold, he might be unable to pay, and so it would run on through all ranks and gradations, each person demanding of the other payment in gold, and perhaps all unable to comply with the demand. The sudden demand for gold would, of course, have the effect of rising the price, as in the demand for wool some years since; it was fair, then to anticipate the evils which would naturally follow from the trade in gold. He should support the bill on the ground of necessity, but he could not think it was desirable to carry it into a permanent system. The bill of 1797 was necessary, and as far as it went an admirable one for its purposes. It would not be proper, in the event merely of alarm or invasion, to allow the conversion of paper into gold, and, there fore, as in 1797, it was highly expedient to provide against that evil, not departing from the system of 1797, as a temporary measure. He should have given his consent with reluctance to the bill, had he not heard from the Bank directors, that the issues of paper were restricted, and consequently that the circulation of that species of medium did not amount to more than when the Bank Restriction act passed. Adverting to the issues from the Bank of Paris, he observed, that the restriction on that bank conduced to the restoration of the value of their notes. He must object to that part of the bill which provided for the non-exchange
973Mr. H. Thornton
922921920919918 reprobated the comparison of Bank of England paper with French assignats. At one period there were no less than 130 millions sterling of assignats in circulation in France. The whole of the Bank of England notes at present in circulation in this country did not exceed twenty-three millions. What just comparison could therefore be made between the two descriptions of paper? This language shewed to what a length the heat of
922921920919918Mr. Calcraft
 said he should postpone his Resolution to another stage of the Bill, as pressing it at that late hour might be productive of inconvenience. (Hear!)Mr. Creevey
938ss.s stated that he had objected to the resolutions of the Bullion Committee; first, because be was averse to the specification of any particular time for the resumption of cash payments by the Bank, and next, because he did not believe that Bank notes were depreciated. Upon the same ground he opposed this Bill, for if it passed, the public would immediately think that there was no doubt but that the notes were actually depreciated. He was convinced the motives of the noble lord who had been the cause of this measure, were good; but the effect of his example, if imitated, would be dangerous. The notice was the most extraordinary he had ever seen; it assumed the fact that a depreciation had taken place. But the noble lord had no right to take that for granted. What was depreciation r Depreciation, he apprehended, existed wherever the real value of the circulating medium was less in common estimation than its nominal value. If in the common transactions of life, a Bank note was reckoned less valuable than 20938ss.sSir T. Turton
l995l994 said, he should not follow the noble lord through all the desultory matter he had introduced into his speech, or through all the cases he had thought proper to bring forward, without any reference to the question, and without any previous notice; but as the case of the Fisguard had attracted much attention from the public, he felt it his duty to move for papers in order to answer the charges. He was surprised to hear the noble lord accuse him of misstatement with respect to the King's proctor; his assertion was, that the affairs of the navy were better situated in the hands of one man of great responsibility; and to that opinion he still adhered. The noble lord had said, that fewer causes were litigated by the
l995l994Mr. Rose
 defended the court of Admiralty from the imputations cast upon it by the noble lord.Captain Parker
l in explanation, said, that the noble lord was, he believed, the only officer who would suspect him of throwing a shield over the navy agents. As the noble lord had returned to the charge of bribery, he thought it necessary to repeat what he had already said, that the 500lMr. Rose,
 said it was true that the law officers of his Majesty had not been present at all the causes in the court of admiralty, but this he could say, that all the little assistance he could render, always had been rendered. The cases Were fully discussed in consultations, and he had never failed to attend the Privy Council. If it was imputed to him as a great omission that he did not constantly attend in court, he could say it was impossible. He trusted that those who knew him and his practice, would not suspect that he deserved what had been rather harshly imputed to him in his absence. He had always made his private business yield to his public duty.The Attorney-General
 had never heard a more preposterous doctrine than that advanced by the hon. gentleman who spoke last. What, because the ground upon which the charges of the noble lord were built, was taken from him, that, therefore the House was bound to grant the motion. It was a proceeding that could not be tolerated. The king's proctor had been charged without due notice given to him of the charges; for all that was known on the subject previous to bringing it forward, was a notice on the book of the table, "for papers relating to ships taken by the Fisguard." In this notice was there any tittle of evidence or charge of bribery against the king's proctor, so that it could be met! Was there, indeed, any misconduct imputed to that officer? Yet in the statement of the noble lord he very broadly charged corruption in every instance in the office of the king's proctor, and promised, if a committee was granted, that he would prove his charges. The answer which had been given by his right hon. friend to the charge relative to captain Skene, would condemn the noble lord in the first instance, and in any charges which he might make in the next session. Was it to be endured, that because the noble lord chose to invest himself with the delightful office of public accuser, and to desire that he might be allowed to keep charges hanging over the heads of meritorious and honourable public officers all the vacation, that he should have his desire? Did the House think, that next session, judging from past experience of the noble lord's motions, that he would be prepared to make good his charges? Was it possible, on such a statement as that he had now made, the House could grant an inquiry? He had talked of bringing forward a bill to amend the law. That he might do, and if any thing was found wrong in the present laws on the subject, to be sure the noble lord's suggestion, which he was justified in making from his known experience, would be attended to; but he could not suffer this House, merely at the request of the noble lord, to be turned into a channel for libel and slander to aim their course against any individual. The House he thought would do well to reject such motions, which, brought forward as they were at the end of a session, prefaced with inflammatory speeches, could be productive of no public benefit.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in justice to the kings proctor, stated, that in the prosecution of all cases from abroad,' he had found that officer as honourable a man as ever existed.Captain Beresford,
10071006l being particularly alluded to by the hon. gent., hoped he should be excused in troubling the House. The hon. gent. had by name referred to him as the member who in 1797 applied to the Speaker for advice. The fact was so, and he had no intention of correcting it. There was not, however, the least similitude between the two cases. In 1797 on the proposal of the then Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Pitt, a bonus was granted to the subscribers to the loyalty loan. Feeling that if he had given his vote for the Bill, he should have been voting 1,00010071006lMr. Maninng,
 denied, that in 1797 the proprietors of Bank stock ought not to have voted on the Restriction Bill. That measure had not been brought forward for their benefit; although it had eventually turned out to be advantageous to them, it was a question of general interest, and as such, the proprietors of Bank stock were as fully entitled to vote upon it as any other members of parliament. His opinions were the same on the present occasion. On the principle maintained by the hon. mover, the possessor of landed property ought not to be permitted to give his vote on the present Bill, for such ant individual was much more deeply interested in the question than the most extensive proprietor of Bank stock in existence.Mr. Bankes
 thought that as the measure of 1797, restricting the cash payments of the Bank, was of great service to the proprietors, they should not have been permitted to vote on it; and the same argument applied to the present case. Bank notes, which, it was said, had suffered an artificial depreciation, would, under the Bill lately introduced, be taken for their nominal value. Of course every stockholder had an interest in the authority of parliament being pledged, as it would be, if the Bill passed. He hoped the House would decide against permitting the votes of the directors to be taken, not from any hostile feeling against the Bank, for, if he could indulge in such a feeling, his utmost wishes, he was convinced, would be fulfilled by enacting the Bill then before them. He was an enemy to monopolies of every description; and he would leave to the hon. gentleman opposite the monopoly of making personal attacks. But he could not held remarking the feeling which was manifested when the brother of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was mentioned. The noble lord (King) when he was censured, was not present to defend himself any more than the other noble person. But there was this distinction between the two cases, that the conduct of low King was in reference to his private concerns, while that of lord Arden, took place before a Committee of the House. Yet, because his hon. friend had taken that name which stood at the top of the paper, a feeling of indignation appeared to be raised.Mr. Abercromby
ss said, it I seemed from the explanation given of the introduction of the noble lord into the discussion, that nothing invidious was meant. He was merely selected as standing first on the list, and not at all as being brother to the person opposed to the hon. gentleman. The noble lord might certainly have been brought forward as a Bank-Proprietor, but why he should be mentioned as a person who had been examined by a Committee of that House, he was at a loss to conceive. With respect to the mention of lord King, he really thought, from the nature of the question, it was impossible the debate could have gone on without referring to him; for the whole argument turned on the propriety of permitting or preventing him from pursuing a certain line of conduct. He did not think the same necessity existed for mentioning lord Arden. The hon. gentleman had, however, introduced him; whether in a complimentary manner, or otherwise, he could not say; and perhaps, it was no great matter which. He denied, that he had ever called lord King a Jew or a pedlar. AH lie had said was, that the noble lord was the first person in his exalted situation, who had acted on that principle, which none but Jews and pedlars had before recognised. With respect to the general question, he agreed with his right hon. friend, that every member who possessed Bank notes was as much interested as the proprietors and directors: for, if the Bank note was considered as only worth 16ssThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 took the opportunity of directing their attention to a matter connected with this subject. He alluded to the new three shilling tokens, issued by the Bank. He thought it wise to have a metallic small change; but considering the character, honour, and prosperity of a country to be most intimately connected with the arts, he could not help reprobating, in the strongest terms, the paltry, wretched, and clumsy manner in which these coins were executed. The French coinage was, at this moment, infinitely superior to ours; and in the world there was nothing so bad as these tokens, with the exception of the king of Sardinia's coinage. He expressed his hope that this subject would, hereafter, be attended to, and the country not be disgraced by such slovenly impressions of the King's head on the current coin.Mr. Bankes
 adverting to the difficulty of getting silver for notes, as described by an hon. and learned gentleman, said that he had seen even a hard guinea given for 20 shillings.Mr. Vansittart,
 suggested the expediency of dividing the bill into two Bills.Lord Folkestone
 thought it but justice to the Bank to state, that they had lent themselves to the public service with considerable loss and inconvenience to themselves. Every body was aware that the silver coinage of the country had nearly disappeared. Under the present circumstances a new coinage was impracticable. If government were, at the present moment, to coin a number of shillings and sixpences, they would not be current a week.—(Hear, hear, from the opposition benches.) How would the hon. gentlemen correct this evil? He had heard gentlemen talk very flippantly of obtaining bullion as easily as claret. But with what would they purchase it? it was impracticable to procure it, and in this state what was to be done? Would they reduce the intrinsic value of the coin of the realm? The propriety of doing this had been discussed a century ago. It had been advocated by Mr. Lowndes, and resisted by Mr. Locke and others. The latter triumphed; a silver coinage of full value, which occasioned to the country a loss of two millions and a half, was issued, and it instantly disappeared. With respect to the execution of the Bank tokens lately issued, it could not have been better, but by a delay that must have been injurious. The Committee of the privy council on coins had called 30 or 40 merchants and bankers together, and had asked them whether it would be advisable to prevail on the Bank to issue these tokens? They answered unanimously in the affirmative. Application was in consequence made to the Bank, and they instantly complied.Mr. Rose
1017 thought it would be improper, at the end of at. Ses-
1017The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 before putting the question, observed, that, after a debate of this kind, it might be expected by the House, that he should give an opinion upon the subject. The question was of a mixed nature, involving law and fact. On the former only would it be becoming for him, or, perhaps, would the House permit him to speak. The rule was very plain. If they opened their Journals, they would find it established 200 years ago, and then spoken of as an ancient practice, that a personal interest in a question disqualified a member from voting. But this interest, it should be further understood, must be a direct pecuniary interest, and separately belonging to the persons whose votes were questioned, and not in common with the rest of his Majesty's subjects, or on a matter of state policy. So it was, that on a canal bill, a person whose name was down as a subscriber, could not vote. On the; same principle, the question raised on the Loyalty Loan was rightly decided; for that was neither more nor less than to give a certain pecuniary remuneration to persons who had sustained a loss. It was equally clear, that the House had done well on questions of taxation or colonial policy, which were held not to disqualify any votes. Such was the law on the subject. How far the fact applied to the present case it was for the House to decide.The Speaker,
 observed, that the proper time for such a proposition would be after the disposal of the present question.The Speaker
 said he had not charged him with any wilful neglect; all he contended for was, that if he could not attend, he ought not to be paid.Lord Cochrane
 said, he had not accused the right hon. gent. of partiality to the agents, but only that he ought to have made more enquiry, and give further information.Lord Cochrane
998997ll in reply, said, that he had not been answered in a single point. (Hear! hear!) He repeated, in not a single point. He had asked, why the answer of Cook and Halford to the right hon. gentleman's letter, No. 5, had not been presented among the other papers? He had pressed that question strongly, but had got no answer. The right hon. gent, had, indeed, read captain Skene's letter, approving of the disbursement of 500998997llLord Cochrane,
dsl993992991dsll990dsldsl989sl988dslldslll987ll986 rose and said:dsl993992991dsll990dsldsl989sl988dslldslll987ll986Lord Cochrane
 opposed the measure. He considered it as one of general interest, and would think it hard to exclude any particular class of men from giving their votes upon it. As a merchant of thirty years standing, he gave his tribute of applause to the conduct of the Bank. Whether granting or refusing accommodation required of them, he had never during all that period heard their conduct arraigned. He adverted to the conduct of lord King, in considering which, he thought they ought never to lose sight of his declared opinions, but always measure his actions with a reference to them: seeing no chance of a change of system, and holding that the depreciation of notes would go on most rapidly, he had, as it were in despair, endeavoured to arrest them in that course.Mr. Hibbert
 thought, if the object of the Bill was not to send all the remaining gold of the country as fast as possible to Ireland, he could see no reason for not extending the Bill to that country.Mr. Tierney
1014 entertained such an insuperable objection to the principle of the Bill, that he was persuaded no modification of that principle in a Committer would render it an expedient, or even a harmless measure. He would avail himself of the present opportunity to ask some few questions respecting the non-descript currency that had recently been issued by the Bank. He understood that it had been coined at the national mint. Was that the fact? If so, by whom was the expence defrayed The nominal value of these tokens was three shillings. What was their real value? Certainly they were not worth three shillings. How were they debased? Was it by the introduction of alloy, or by the diminution of weight? Why not affix two, shillings and sixpence to them as the nominal price, and then procure an Act of parliament to make them pass for three shillings? This would be to put them on a footing with the notes., It was well known that there had been a great want of change all over the kingdom, and no
1014Mr. Brougham
 stated, that the object of the Bill would not be effectual, as paper might first be sold for commodities, and gold bought with these commodities, in such a way as to have no difference in effect from the practice struck at in the Bill.Mr. H. Thornton
996 wished to express his indignation at the cruel manner adopted by the noble lord of treating public men. The noble lord had brought a charge against the King's proctor, which, if true, must render him unworthy to hold any situation. Yet what course did the noble lord pursue? Did he impeach him? No; but he moved for certain papers, which had no more relation to the case than to any other case which was not yet in contemplation. Why did not the noble lord adopt another course? Why did he not go to the first lord of the admiralty, whose conduct he was obliged to compliment? He had said that he had proofs: why did he not go to the court of King's-bench, and produce them? But no, he was satisfied with merely moving for some accounts which he considered a consistent conclusion to a charge of bribery. This was not the way to treat public men. Supposing that a charge had been made against the noble lord himself at that late period of the session, accusing him of peculation, or some other crime, and that all this was followed up by a motion for the production of his accounts, would he not complain of being most improperly treated, and say that every principle of justice and humanity had been violated with respect to him? But it appeared after all that the King's proctor had not received the bribe. He begged leave to remind the noble lord of a former occasion, upon which he had accused the King's proctor, and compelled the government to lay open to the world the agency of a gen-
996Mr. Stephen
 said that though the Attorney-General could not always attend in court, the crown and the captors had the advantage of his advice.Mr. Stephen
 did not think there was a gentleman in the House could be influenced in the vote he should give; if there were any such, it was the duty of his hon. friend to point them out. He thought my lord Arden had been dragged in head and heels for the purpose of being abused. Instead of taking the name of my lord Arden, his hon. friend might have taken the first on the list, and there he would have found the name of the Speaker; and the noble lord was introduced because his hon. friend was aware that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had too much of dignity, too much of feeling, to answer the observation, and therefore he thought himself secure, arid that he should go scot free. With respect to the statement of the profits of the bank, that he did not think correct, and stated a history of the bank from their first formation, in 1696, to shew that they had always kept up a close connection with the government.Mr. Dent
 did not object to the Speaker leaving the chair, but took occasion to state his opinion, that a resolution of the merchants to receive and pay Bank notes at their nominal value, as was done on the 26th of September, 1745, would have been sufficient to remedy the threatened evil, and have completely superseded the necessity of this Bill. As a temporary measure only, he gave it his support'.Mr. Dent
1016 said, that the state of the country did not call for this measure, there was no parliamentary grounds shewn for it, and no necessity attempted to be asserted in the Bill. There was specie enough in the country, as might be shewn from the reports of the Bank directors themselves, if measures of confidence were adopted to call it into circulation. The Bill went to shake the best securities, and to alter all the valuable standards of the kingdom. The present was a measure brought forward, he conceived, not so much because the corporation of the Bank were bankers, but because they were the agents of the government. If they went en to improve the advantages of their situ-
1016Mr. P. Moore
999 conceived that the House ought to grant the motion, in order to give the noble lord an opportunity of making good his charges. When a person standing forward in the light of a public accuser, brought on charges, which were answered, and notwithstanding that answer, repeated the charges, it was in common justice due to that person, to afford him the means of grounding a mo-
999Mr. P. Moore
1008ll was satisfied that every gentleman in the House would see the motive which induced the hon. gent. to select the name of lord Arden. It was invidiously introduced—[Mr. Creevey denied that he Had so introduced it;] The manner, the time, and the observations, were too glaring not to convince the House of the motives of the hon. gentleman. He had no doubt, but that if his name had begun with a instead of an A, and that therefore he had been at the bottom instead of the top of the list, he would have been equally Selected. If the noble lord had not himself answered the questions put to him, he had, however immediately referred to his deputy, who knew better than he did; and this deputy did give the Committee as much satisfaction as they could desire with respect to the amount of lord Arden's emoluments. There was a prodigious difference between the case of the loyalty loan, where the decision of the question put 5001008llMr. Long
l1012 shortly replied. He did
l1012Mr. Creevey
llbonus1005llll100410031002 rose, for the purpose of submitting to the House a Re-solution for disallowing the votes of certain members in the further stages of the Gold coin Bill. Previous to which, he desired
llbonus1005llll100410031002Mr. Creevey
l1015l in reply to some of the questions of the hon. gentleman, stated that the three shilling Bank token weighed nine pennyweights and eleven grains; and that at the present price of silver, it was worth two shillings and nine-pence halfpenny. These tokens had been issued by the Bank, solely for the convenience of the public. It had been said in another place, and by a high authority, that the Bank had made great sums by their issues of coin. Now, what was the fact? Four millions of dollars had been issued since 1804. When the Bank raised their nominal value to five shillings and sixpence, there might be three millions in circulation (one million having probably been melted), in which there would therefore be a loss of 75,000l1015lMr. Manning,
 reprobated the idea of making Bank notes a legal tender, a thing the legislature, though they might have the power, had not the right to do. He referred to a work of Thomas Paine, a man whose assertions in general ought to be taken, not with grains, but with ounces of allowance, but who had, in a certain pamphlet, uttered many things extremely worthy of notice relative to the national debt of the country. He approved of the remedy of double prices proposed by an hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham), and referred to the cases of America and France.Mr. W. Smith
 declared, that he had not the slightest intention of making an accusation against the right hon. and learned gent. He was not aware of any abuses which fell within his correction, which had not been attended to. But this he knew, that there were many cases of strong injustice in the admiralty court.Mr. W. Smith
1001 thought the House would not object to grant the motion. With respect to the rest, he hoped the noble lord would withdraw them. At the same time he felt himself inclined, should the noble lord next session bring forward any motion respecting abuses in the Admiralty court, to support him. He conceived that the interests of the public might have suffered from the very high character which the officers in that court held, he meant the learned judge and advocate. He knew that abuses, notwithstanding their respectable characters, really did exist. Cases had been mentioned to him of abuses,
1001Mr. W. Smith
1010sll1009 could not help observing, that however just might be the disapprobation expressed of any allusion to the motives of one noble lord, the sentiment was equally applicable to the censure passed upon the conduct of another. With respect to the objects of his hon. friend who had brought forward this motion, he had not the smallest doubt of the purity of his views, although he did not think he had fully succeeded in proving the direct pecuniary interest of the Bank proprietors if the present bill, and if any indirect interest was permitted to operate as an exclusion, it would on many occasions-cut off half the votes of the House. The question, however, now was quite distinct in its nature; it was a question between the interests of a monopolizing company (he did not mean to speak invidiously) and the interests of the public. Now, he had never heard of a corporation of barley growers, or of a corporation of West India planters, or of any act of parliament, to defend them against the lawful demands of their creditors. If in 1797 a motion similar to the present had been made, he could not believe that it would have been resisted, it being then clearly the direct interest of the proprietors that the restriction should take place. He did not assert that they first suggested or brought that measure forward, or that any censure ought to be passed upon them for their conduct on that occasion. Their evident and immediate interest in the question ought, how-ever, he conceived, to have prevented them from publicly voting in favour of it. The right hon. gentleman had said, every holder of a Bank of England note might, by the same rule, be excluded from dividing; but he surely forgot, not only the very small and temporary interest thus held, but also that every holder of a
1010sll1009Mr. W. Smith
una voce after the honourable acquittal which, in the judgment of the House must be pronounced, would not have troubled them with any observations, but for the pertinaciousness of the noble lord, who still maintained that he could prove his charges. The noble lord had no right to say, that if the papers were produced, they would prove his charges to be correct. When he stated that the officers of the navy had been defrauded of 30 percent, he inculpated all the officers of the court of admiralty, not even omitting the right hon. and learned judge. The noble lord had moved for the papers on the subject last session. Wishing to throw every light he could, he had seconded that motion, and from time to time furnished additional papers. All of these went to prove, that there was not the slightest ground for the accusation of the noble lord. Indeed, the House had, una voceSir J. Nicholl,
 from the allusion which the hon. gent. had made to him, was called upon to say a few words. If the hon. gent. had stated to him, in the way he had now described, those facts he had mentioned, he should have enquired into them. He begged to remind the hon. gent. that would have been the proper mode of proceeding. It must be obvious, that the only course was to bring cases of abuse under the cognizance of the regular authority appointed to inquire into and correct them. If he had declined to institute that inquiry, then the next course for the hon. gentleman to have pursued, was to bring them before the notice of the House, and the accusation would be against him for refusing to exercise the authority vested in him. Not having done so, the hon. gentleman must excuse him if he complained of injustice, because the statement appeared to charge him with having refused the aid of his powers. He hoped that for the future the House would not have to enquire into every complaint, un-less it was proved that the courts of justice had tailed in the due execution of their authority.Sir W. Scott,
 stated that the vessel was a mile and a half from the shore at the time the circumstance occurred. A coroner's jury, therefore, could have nothing to do in the matter. The sentence of the court martial proceeded on the narrative of having maturely weighed the whole circumstances of the case, and on that narrative found that there was no malice nor any intention on the part of lieutenant Richards to cause the death of the seaman, and therefore acquitted him of the charge of murder. After that, was the House to be told that no trial for murder had taken place?Lord Walpole
 said no reason whatever had been urged for the concealment of the minutes of the court martial, for which his hon. and learned friend had moved. He thought his hon. and learned friend quite justified in declining to mention names, recollecting that those who complained of any abuse in any departments, were certain to tall under the displeasure of ministers. The conduct of the officer in this case appeared to him to be entirely undefended and at common law amounted to murder. The hon. bart. then cited an opinion, as he stated, from Blackstone, that a man shooting at game without a licence, and killing a man through accident, was liable to be tried for murder. It was also laid down in all our law books, that the smallest participation in any felonious act rendered the accused amenable to all the consequences attending the act itself.Sir F. Burdett
1033 lamented that his hon. and learned friend had not thought proper in the first instance to submit the cases which he had adduced to the consideration of the Admiralty, and in the event of their having been neglected, then to have brought them before Parliament. In the present instance, it appeared that the officer had been tried by a competent tribunal, and although acquitted of murder, convicted of cruelty, and that the severest sentence which the court could inflict for
1033The Attorney General
 in explanation of his former statement observed, that the trial had been ordered by the admiral on the station, not by the Admiralty.Lord Walpole
1035 observed, that the hon. and learned gent, must entertain a strange notion of the effects of office, if he conceived that against the name of a person who gave information of a foul murder, gentlemen in office would set a black mark in their minds, and that they would be indisposed from that period to do any thing kind of fair by such an individual, so strongly was the hon. and learned gent impressed with this notion, that he thought even his own friends, were they in power, would be influenced by considerations of' that nature. The observation would be unfortunate for the hon. and learned gent., if at any future time he should himself get into office, as
1035The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in support of the opinion of his hon. and learned friend, that persons preferring complaints were liable to the resentment of the higher powers, called to the recollection of the House the case of admiral Montague, who, soon after he had made a complaint to the Admiralty, was put on half-pay.Sir F. Burdett,
 disclaimed any assertion on the subject; he had merely said that there was a strange coincidence between the complaint and the dismissal.Sir F. Burdett
 declared that this latter circumstance arose out of the misstatement of admiral Montague himself. As soon as the error was discovered, his son's wrong was redressed.The Attorney General
1026—I do not know whether the House expects me to reply to the questions which the noble lord has put to me, perfectly new as one appears to be; but, as far as my information goes, I will give it, if the House thinks fit that I should do so. (Hear, hear!) With respect to the privileges of the House, I know of no means of enforcing its privileges, but in the usual way, from time immemorial, by its own officers; and I never knew one instance of any-officer having been sent across the seas at the instance of any member, on a complaint of insult offered to him
1026The Speaker.
 regretted that his hon. and learned friend, for whose talents he entertained the highest respect, had brought forward the present subject. The principal part of his hon. and learned friend's statements had been most fully answered. Adverting to the question of military punishments, while he acknowledged that those were the best regiments in which flogging was not resorted to, he was obliged conscientiously to say, what-ever odium might follow the declaration, that in his opinion, it would be impossible wholly to abolish the practice of flogging in the army.General Tarleton
10311030 wished the hon. and learned gent, had confined himself to the subject of the motion which he concluded with, and had not introduced irrelevant matter. He felt concerned that he should have thought it necessary to introduce the ano-
10311030Mr. Yorke
 agreed with his hon. and learned friend in objecting to the motion on three grounds; first, because the case was one of the most frivolous ones he had ever met with: secondly, because the noble lord, if he had just cause for complaint, should have made it at the Admiralty, and that board would have investigated the complaint; and thirdly, because the complaint, instead of being Made by the noble lord, was, by his own shewing, a complaint against himself. He had this to state to the noble lord, that if he had not been an officer on half-pay, he would have heard from the board of Admiralty in a different Way. With respect to the Marshal exercising the office of Proctor in conjunction, be would recommend an inquiry to be made, as it was contrary to the express provisions of an act of parliament. But with respect to the noble lord's case it Was, he must repeat it, one of the most frivolous cases ever brought before parliament.Mr. Yorke
 replied, and repeated his former statements.Lord Cochrane
1032 was of opinion, that although the discipline of some ships might
1032Lord Cochrane
—Sir; It was at first my intention, to have moved an address to the Prince Regent, to recall the Judge Registrar and Marshal, to answer for their conduct and proceedings, contrary to the ex-press words of acts of parliament; but on consideration, and in compliance with the suggestion of the first lord of the Admiralty, I have thought it better to move, "That a Committee be appointed to examine into the conduct of the Judge Registrar and Marshal, and their Deputies, of the court of Vice Admiralty at Malta, for the violation of the 37th, 38th, 39th, and 41 St sections of the 45th Geo. 3, c. 72."Lord Cochrane.
1025"Notary Public.""On the 2nd day of August, 1811, the aforegoing attestation was duly sworn at Malta, where stamps are not used:—before me, "CHA. EDW. FENTON,"MURRAY MAXWELL.""C. ROWLEY,"PERCY FRASER,102410231022102110201019in toto1018 rose and said:1025"Notary Public.""On the 2nd day of August, 1811, the aforegoing attestation was duly sworn at Malta, where stamps are not used:—before me, "CHA. EDW. FENTON,"MURRAY MAXWELL.""C. ROWLEY,"PERCY FRASER,102410231022102110201019in toto1018Lord Cochrane
 observed, that, in addition to admiral Montague's being put on half-pay, his son had been denied the privileges of the school at Portsmouth, until the subject was mentioned in the House of Commons.Lord Cochrane
 explained and stated the extreme reluctance with which he had listened to the information that had been given to him, until he became satisfied of its authenticity.Mr. Brougham
1034 in reply, declared that be bad not heard a single argument against the production, of the Minutes of Evidence. There were two parties whom
1034Mr. Brougham,
 resumed, and contended, that the individual in question ought to have been tried, not by a court martial, but by the Admiralty's jurisdiction. If there was one species of jurisdiction, to the proceedings of which greater publicity ought to be given than to any other, it was that of courts-martial. As to mentioning the names of those from whom he received his information, he should be very cautious on that head. He did not mean to say that the board of Admiralty-would distinctly visit their resentment on such individuals. They would not for instance put them at the bottom of the list. They would not set a black mark against them in the Admiralty books, but they would set a black mark against them in their own minds. They would be biassed to their future prejudice. This he said without reference to any particular set of men, for he should have the same apprehension were his own political friends in office. He cordially closed, however, with the proposition of the right hon. secretary of the Admiralty, to state to him the name of the ship in which the transaction that be had described happened. He would obtain as soon as possible the name of the man, and some approximation at least to the date of the occurrence, for the purpose of communicating the whole to the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Brougham
10291028 rose, and observed, that some time ago he gave notice of a motion for the production of the minutes of evidence taken in the harbour of Barbadoes, before a court martial upon lieutenant Richards, of the Dart sloop of war. It was with very considerable pain that he now felt himself com-
10291028Mr. Brougham
1027 could not avoid applauding' the benevolent motive of the hon. gentleman, who had seconded the poor outcast of the noble lord. With respect to the conduct of the learned judge alluded to, he was satisfied it was the opinion of the House that he had done nothing amiss—that the dignity of his office required that he should exert his authority after the direct insult that the noble lord had offered to the court. The charge against the noble lord was for taking down the public document of the court, a charge which he, had not denied, nay indeed, the noble lord had exhibited what he termed a fac simile of the table of fees, and so closely imitated, that the very impression of the wafers—the document itself, and its smoke-dried appearance, seemed to proclaim its originality. The conduct of the noble lord, when required to answer for this contempt, was not merely that he refused to obey the monition, but that he pulled out a pistol and threatened to shoot any man, who at tempted to execute it upon him Chapman, the officer, therefore (and the fact was confirmed by two witnesses), thought it not prudent to execute a warrant at the point of a pistol, and had, not the courage
1027Mr. Stephen
 was surprized that the hon. and learned gent, should suppose that any persons who gave information of abuses to the board of Admiralty, would expose themselves to its displeasure. He could assure the hon. and learned gent, that the board of Admiralty was fully disposed to listen to all complaints brought before it, and had within his knowledge thanked several individuals by whom those complaints had been preferred. As to the anonymous cases which bad been mentioned, if the hon. and learned gent, chose to keep the names of his informant and of the persons accused secret, yet if he would only stale the name of the ship from which the man jumped overboard, the Admiralty would institute a minute inquiry into the circumstances of the case. For a long series of yearns no accusation, not even an anonymous one, had been passed over by the Admiralty without investigation. As to the old practice of sending convicts on board men of war, the Admiralty had for several years opposed it with the utmost determination.Mr. Croker
 supported the motion, and trusted that the discussion would have as good an effect on the regulations respecting the discipline of the navy, as the discussion brought forward by an hon. hart, near him had had on the regulations respecting the discipline of the army.Mr. P. Moore
 seconded the motion, not from any knowledge of its merits, but thinking, that if the matter of charge was not inquired into, it would reflect upon the House.Mr. P Moore
1036 denied that the one was in consequence of the other; and observed that this was another of those unfounded assertions which, the hon. baronet was in the habit of making in greater number,
1036Mr. R. Ward
 stated several instances in' which the admiralty had paid great attention to complaints brought before them.Mr. Creevey
 said be had been 37 years in the naval service of the country, 22 years of which he had been in actual service, and he had never on any one occasion seen gagging resorted to.Sir R. Bickerton
 observed, that he understood it had been settled, that the hon. and learned gentleman was to discuss those Resolutions in the debate on the third reading of the bill. After this bill was disposed of, the hon. and learned gentleman, if he thought proper, might take the sense of the House upon his Resolutions, and enter them on the Journals.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then moved, that the Bill be now read a third time, upon which,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1059105810571056sss1055s105410531052ad valorem1051105010491048l10471046maximummaximummaximum1045dss1044104310421041v10401039 rose and said: I hope my hon. friends will do me the justice to believe, that I have felt very great pain when compelled to differ from them in every stage of this proceeding; but still entertaining the opinions which I had occasion to deliver when the Bank Restriction bill was passed, and on the discussion of the Bullion Report, it was impossible for me to have acted otherwise without a dereliction of character and consistency. When the Bank-Restriction bill was enacted I was a very young member of the House, and I did not venture to oppose a measure which seemed to meet with general concurrence; but I took the liberty of stating my very great apprehensions, lest it should be followed by all the calamities which in every country have resulted from giving to paper a compulsory circulation; and since the depreciation, which I then foresaw, has become manifest, I consider it an imperative duty to use my endeavours, however feeble, to persuade the House to retrace its steps.1059105810571056sss1055s105410531052ad valorem1051105010491048l10471046maximummaximummaximum1045dss1044104310421041v10401039Mr. Johnstone
 observed that it was not surprising the unfavourable stale of our foreign exchanges should make an impression so injurious to our currency; and that as to what his hon. friend had said of the trade of the country with the continent having flourished so much during the last two years, it should be recollected that the mere export or goods could not operate on the exchanges until they were turned into money, and the payments came round. He denied that the increased price of wheat was any proof of the depreciation of paper. That increase had been originally occasioned by a season of scarcity, and it was well known how difficult it was, when a commodity had risen in price from any cause, however temporary, to bring it down again. He considered the measure taken by lord King as an unfortunate one, and as tending to the reestablishment of the old principle of barter, which would be a most inefficient mode of carrying on the present extensive commercial dealings of the country. He admitted that our situation was one of difficulty; we were exposed to a severe trial, but it was not of our own seeking, and we were bound to endure it manfully. The national debt was unquestionably great, but the operation upon it of that powerful engine, the Sinking Fund, was very considerable, and in the event of the restoration of peace, we should soon be lightened from the burdens which now pressed so heavily on the country.Mr. Paterson
1086108510841083108210811080 said, he was seldom anxious to join in the debates of that House on important subjects, being content to leave the discussion to members of superior talents and ability to himself. The Bill then under consideration was, however, of such peculiar importance, and, he thought, pregnant with such fatal consequences, that he could not refrain from availing himself of some opportunity to express his sentiments upon it, and enter his protest against its passing into a law. He had given the fullest consideration to the subject in his power; he had listened with attention to every thing that had been sad upon it in all its previous stages; and
1086108510841083108210811080Mr. Western
10881087 contended, that it had been, the policy of the country for centuries, to prevent the coin of the realm being sold. The Bill, therefore, far from infringing the rights of the subject, did but enact what had long been understood to be the law, and what, if not the law, had been intended to be the law. With respect to what had been said of its protecting the debtor against the creditor, he observed it was only intended to protect the tenant against charges which might be made, but could not be equitably made. The tenant, it should be remembered, if he charged a higher price for the produce of his lands, was obliged to pay a higher price for every article he consumed, and therefore it was doing no more than was right, when they protected him against such charges. It was too much to say, that the example of lord King would be followed by no one else whose motives were less honourable than were those of his lordship. The advance in the price of wheat was, in a great measure, to be ascribed to our corn laws, which had laid on it three or four and thirty per cent. within the last 15 years. It was the duty of parliament to protect the tenant, not against lord King, but against the merciless landlord who might distress him to gratify a mercenary disposition. The price of gold was four pound per ounce at the beginning of the last century. It had been at the same price within the last two years. It would be found by a table in the Philosophical Transactions, left by the late sir G. Shuckburgh, that the prices of most articles were more than doubled since the first mentioned period. Thus it would be seen, while other commodities doubled their prices, gold remained stationary. Our imports had been greater than they
10881087Mr. Rose
 considered the Bill as likely to be much more dangerous in its effects, than that practice which had caused it to be introduced, and which had been spoken of as tending to destroy all the bonds of civilized society. After some observations on its probable effects on the country banks, he concluded with observing, if they were obliged to pay in cash, instead of its being a disadvantage to this country, it would be the means of keeping within it the money which was now sent to France for her produce, and he was convinced that France would be obliged to send her produce here, and take our manufactures in exchange.Mr. Herbert
10981097 was convinced the bill proceeded on the erroneous notion held out by a noble lord in another place, that any thing would answer for a measure of value as well as gold. But what rendered gold peculiarly fit to be a measure of value, was its intrinsic value in exchange among all nations, and to pretend by any act of parliament to make a thing of no intrinsic value, equally acceptable
10981097Sir Francis Burdett
1102lll11011100ex post facto hoped the House would indulge him for a few moments while he stated the reasons that induced him to vote against this bill; and he rose thus late because he had been anxious before he spoke, to hear the opinions of some other members of his profession, especially those connected with the government, upon a subject so important—a bill deserving their attention more than any that had passed that session. It was an 1102lll11011100ex post factoSir S. Romilly
 having been alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman, begged to state what was the purport of his opinion, namely, that the House was called on to see that effectual protection was provided both for the person and the property of tenants. He had declared it to be his opinion, that it was better in such a case to rely on a moral than a legal sense of duty; that had been found an effectual protection for 14 years, and lord King, for reasons best known to himself, and into the propriety or grounds of which he had no right to inquire, had been the first to make an infraction on this moral law. This had imposed on the House the painful duty it was now in the course of discharging; and he only hoped that the remedy adopted would be effectual.Lord Castlereagh,
l explained, that in what he had said of the directors, he had not dealt in insinuation, but had merely observed that it was unfair in them to represent themselves as under no other influence than the 2,000lSir F. Burdett
 said, there was one part of the hon. and learned gent.'s Resolutions, which he believed few would be disposed to think was not the perfect right of every man, that of giving away his property. He begged also to say, that he did not think the Bill would add to any such disposition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1110 did not think the bestowing money for charitable purposes could be called throwing it away. The hon. and learned gent, had not fairly interpreted his last observation, and might have recollected, that Swift
1110The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—Does the noble lord conceive, that an inquiry into the errors of the Sicilian government can be justly said to bear on the present question, according to the known usages of the debate? I was unwilling to interfere as long as the noble lord was pleased to keep within the widest limits prescribed by the ordinary rules of debate.The Speaker.
 said, he did not mean to argue either for or against what seemed to him to be a self-evident proposition. He wished merely to explain that he conceived the hon. and learned gent, to be one of the last from whom a reproof of using too high a tone in debate, came with any grace (a loud cry of hear! from Mr. Perceval and his friends). He trusted at the same time, that he should always hold a sufficiently high tone to do justice in, that House to any character which might belong to him out of it.Mr. A. Baring
1099 in reply to the observation of the hon. baronet, said that the bank directors certainly made no corrupt use of their influence, nor could they, without injuring their character in society. If the hon. baronet had any charge to make against them, it would be more manly and candid to do it directly, than to deal in suspicions and insinuations. He agreed with the member for Yorkshire, that this bill was a palliative, and not a cure for the disease. The only cure was to reduce the expenditure, which would enable the bank to reduce their issues. Another remedy, though an unpalatable one, was further taxation, to bring the receipts and expenditure nearer a level, instead of going on continually with a system of loans. Adverting to the plan suggested by the hon. and learned gent. (Mr. Brougham) of cutting off a third of the debt, and putting an and to a part of the dividends, he observed that this might answer very well, if the landholders and others were to contribute in equal proportion. But this was 100 violent an expedient, and could not safely be resorted to. He saw no ground for the despondency with which some gentlemen appeared to regard our financial situation. If the supplies and expenditure were equalized, the operation of the sinking fund would free us, from our embarrassments: and he suggested that some taxes would bear augmentations, since by the depreciation they were not now paid at so high a rate as they were three years ago. When it was considered that the funding system was one of which the efficacy depended upon intervals of peace, and that we had been at war for the last
1099Mr. A. Baring,
109410931092l said, that he should wave the farther explanation he was about to give of the internal state of Sicily, which certainly was no farther connected with the question, than by occasioning enormous expence to us, instead of making it worth the people's while to defend their own island and government; in doing so, be presumed, however, that it was not intended that he should abstain from mentioning, that in addition to the treasure sent to. Sicily, for the purposes he had already mentioned, one item alone of the extraordinary expence of our army amounted last year to 180,000109410931092lLord Cochrane
10911090 said, that had not every argument been used by the gentlemen, who had spoken, during the different stages of the present bill, that was likely to be urged either for or against the measure, and likewise in a similar debate on the Bullion report, he should not have presumed to trespass on the notice of the House, upon a question so foreign to his pursuits as one of finance, or political economy. But as the defects of the depreciation of our currency appeared to him to hare been alone dwelt on, or the originating causes traced no farther than to an excess in the issue of paper by the
10911090Lord Cochrane
1106110511041103 rose amidst a strong cry of
1106110511041103Mr. Tierney
11091108l said, that before he had been instructed, from the authority of the Chair, that it was irregular, he had intended to move his Resolutions as an amendment to the question of the third reading of the Gold Coin Bill. In now moving them, for the purpose of having them entered on the Journals, he did it, not with the object of creating a debate, although he knew that many gentlemen near him were not indisposed for it, even at that late hour of the night. His Resolutions' would contain a censure on the conduct of the Bank Directors; which he conceived they had too well merited. Notwithstanding the sneer of an hon. Bank director, on a similar observation of his, a sneer that seemed to meet with so favourable a reception from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he had to state that he still felt as much distrust as ever in power,—and not only in power, but also in monopoly. But where power and monopoly were united, and when it was shewn that they were working together for a common end, he conceived a case was made out sufficient to excite the jealousy and vigilance of every man who professed or felt a regard for the constitution, He was the more strongly impressed with the necessity of this censure, on hearing, not a little to his surprise, the high tone lately assumed by an hon. Bank director, a tone as little as possible warranted by the conduct of that corporation, of which he was a member. When he heard it said that the mere possession of the qualifying sum of 2,00011091108lMr. Brougham
 said, he had no wish to spoil the jokes of the right hon. gent, but would remind him that the Bill itself positively prohibited any person from giving his Bank note for less than it was worth.Mr. Brougham
 replied, that he perfectly agreed in the doctrine of dean Swift; and it was under its influence, that when he heard the right hon. gent, enter into a discussion of the expediency of preventing the keepers of turnpikes from collecting silver, or becoming petty traders in silver bullion, he had not been able to keep his countenance.Mr. Brougham
 expressed a wish to be allowed to bring forward, in the first instance, his Resolutions on the subject.Mr. Brougham
1095 said he should detain the House but for a short while upon some points which did not appear to him to have been touched upon before, and if, when he came to those points, the House disapproved of his proceeding, he would sit down. In his opinion this question should have been left untouched by the House, whether the paper was depreciated or not, while the public did not murmur. He regretted much that his right hon. friend next him (Mr. Sheridan) did not take up the subject, as he would much rather have attended to him than undertaken the task himself. The Restriction Bill in 1797, like the present Bill, was declared to be temporary; but how many temporary measures had, in the most insidious manner, been converted into perpetual measures? It had been renewed from time to time, till we had got the present length, and till we did not know how to turn ourselves. He hoped the House would indulge him till he traced the steps by which the country had got into the present difficulties. He then went into a history of the several renewals of the Restric-
1095Mr. P. Moore
1096 adverting to the mention made by his hon. friend of a foolish joke which he had used when the Restriction passed, observed, that the joke had been remembered better than the application. The Committee for investigating the affairs of the Bank, with Mr. Bragge at its head, reported the willingness of the Bank to pay in cash, if political circumstances would allow it. Upon which, Mr. Pitt applauded the Committee and the Bank, but said that political circumstances would riot permit the resumption; and it was on that occasion he had said, that Brag was a good dog, but Holdfast was a better: not, however, approving the conduct of Holdfast, but quite the contrary. His honourable friend, who had made such an able speech, had expressed his wish that the House should hear him (Mr. Sheridan); this was somewhat surprising, because his honourable friend knew that he differed from him totally in opinion. Before he could be convinced that parliament ought not to interfere on the present occasion, he must also be persuaded that a change of system would not put an end to the means of supporting the great contest in which we were engaged, nor disturb the whole commercial arrangements of the country. Could any thing be more unjust than to compel the public creditor to take Bank notes, and yet leave it in the power of others to refuse them in payment from him? He, himself, had for four years encountered Mr. Pitt, and proposed resolutions as to the state of our finances, in which he had been followed by others. Upon these, Mr. Pitt had been in the habit of proposing amendments. The great difference between them was, as to the
1096Mr. Sheridan,
 denied that he had ever despaired of the resources of the country. With respect to his vote on the Bullion Committee, that he had given conscientiously, but if he had had the good fortune even to have heard his right hon. friend's speeches, he did not think they would have altered that vote. His right hon. friend seemed to think that the finances of the country were gone, and Buonaparte, therefore, was more generous, for he allowed that they would stand ten years. He lamented that the House was not in a Committee, for then he could have confuted all his right hon. friend's arguments" which the rules of the House would not permit him to do.Mr. Sheridan
 was of opinion that the present measure, if not a cure, would be found the best palliative that could be applied to the existing evil. This was not denied even by those who were loudest in asserting the depreciation of the Bank note, and he should therefore vole for the Bill.Mr. W. Taylor
1089Spatium requi emque doloris' said, that while he agreed in certain points with those who supported the present bill, and concurred in others with those who opposed it, there were at the same time, other views of the question in which he had the misfortune to differ from both sides; and first, he was ready to admit that while such apprehensions were afloat in the public mind in consequence of the conduct that led to this discussion, the government must have felt the adoption of some expedient to prevent great general distress and confusion indispensibly necessary. Of the conduct that compelled the government to resort to such an expedient he was willing to say little, but this much he could not well avoid saying, that of alt others he should have least expected, that a noble lord of the high rank, finished education, and just pretensions of lord King, would have thought it wise and fit-to resort to such an experiment. He was ready to make every allowance for the good intentions of the noble lord, but the noble lord was bound to have reflected that a variety of persons in an humbler sphere of life, and whose sole motive was the sordid one of gain, might be glad hereafter to shelter themselves under the high authority of the noble lord, and push his example to the extent of a mischievous and criminal abuse of it. Such men might talk very profusely about political economy, while they had nothing else but private emolument in view. Under such circumstances, therefore, it became the bounden duty of the government to do something, and so far he agreed with the supporters of the bill; but when these gentlemen would go farther, and instead of looking upon it as a temporary expedient to gain time, 1089Spatium requi emque doloris'Mr. Wilberforce
* rose for the purpose of calling their lordships' attention to the documents, which lay upon the table, and had been produced in consequence of a motion made on a former day by his noble friend (the earl of Moira,) whose absence he regretted upon this occasion. The documents which had been produced as a ground for issuing the Circular Letter to the sheriffs and chief magistrates of the principal towns throughout Ireland,*The Marquis of Lansdowne
98 felt it to be his duty to oppose the present motion, because no sufficient grounds bad been laid for agreeing to it; and because the information already on the table was sufficient to answer the object of the motion made by a noble lord the oilier night. That noble lord's motion was confined to the production of a single document, and the letter
98The Earl of Liverpool
10d considered it right to keep clear altogether of the merits of the question on which these proceedings had occurred, and thought the only question before them was, whether the strong steps taken by the Irish government could be justified. It was certainly possible that they might; but there was nothing on their table to prove it, and they could not come to such a conclusion without the advantage of farther and more particular information. Notwithstanding the recent assertions of the friends of ministers, and the statements so often made in some of the public prints, supposed to speak the sentiments of government, that Ireland was in a state of perfect tranquillity, the publication of this strong and irritating letter shewed that Ireland was very far from being in such a situation. After a lapse of 18 years, he should have considered the Convention Act, passed at a disturbed period, as obsolete. At that time, acts of considerable strictness were passed in this country, and which he believed were justified by circumstances: yet they were subsequently done away here, and he should think that the same step should have taken place in Ireland. It was curious to learn that ministers should have no knowledge of the subject, when they must have known that the Letter of Mr. Hay had been written for five weeks. It was curious that Mr. Pole left this country only on the 310dEarl Grosvenor
13 thought it probable that the Irish government had resorted to measures of conciliation before issuing the circular Letter. The Letter of Mr. Hay, was, it was true, dated the first of January; but it did not appear that it was circulated on that day; it was probable that it was not circulated for some days afterwards, and then, perhaps, privately, so that some time would elapse before government
13The Earl of Ross
 admitted that the assembling of a convention of delegates would have been dangerous to the public peace; and observed, that what he meant to say was, that no danger would have arisen merely from the number of Catholics which it was proposed to assemble.Earl Grosvenor
14 observed, that the noble earl who spoke last but one, had supposed that measures of conciliation had been resorted to by the Irish government previous to issuing the circular Letter, but what they wanted was the proof of that fact upon the table.14Lord Holland
18171615 felt himself called on to defend the principles upon which the Catholic Committee had acted upon this occasion so frequently alluded to; and was prepared to contend, that upon any fair and candid view, as well as from what was incontrovertibly apparent on the face of the proceedings, no such conclusions as those drawn by noble lords opposite, particularly by the noble earl who spoke recently, could be deduced from them. The object of the Catholic Committee in assembling the meeting of so many of their brethren, appeared to be no other than to give greater weight and effect to the petitions, which they had to present to both Houses of Parliament. For this purpose they proposed to collect the sense of each county in Ireland upon the petitions, without which they could not be said to express the real sense of the country; and the petitions were consequently kept for the signatures of the most respectable individuals of the Catholic persuasion, if they should approve of their being presented this session. It was under this impression, and with
18171615The Earl of Donoughmore
1211 could not but offer a few observations on the present occasion. The noble Secretary of State, who had risen to answer the speech of his noble friend, did any thing but answer the more prominent points of that speech; and, indeed, in avoiding to do so, he acted wisely. His noble friend pressed for an explanation of the reasons which induced the Irish government so long to have delayed the putting in force of the Convention Act, if the Letter from the secretary of the Catholic Committee was really the cause of their resorting to a measure so rash and intemperate. He, however, pressed in vain for that explanation. It was therefore natural to conclude, that some other grounds existed in justification of such a measure; and a knowledge of those grounds it was the object of his noble friend's motion to obtain. In expressing his decided disapprobation of this rash and intemperate proceeding, he desired not to be considered as prepared or disposed to vindicate the cause of any description of persons, who meant to act in an illegal manner. On the contrary, he would always do his utmost to ensure obedience to the law: and if it could be shewn that this measure was the only, or the ready and natural mode of prevention of an unlawful meeting, he should agree to it. If the Catholics had any intention of establishing a permanent convention to represent them, he should be sensible of the dangers of such an attempt, and would be the first to resist it. But of this there was no proof: as little was there any proof of any kind effort on the part of the Irish government to admonish them of the dangers of such an attempt, to make allowances for the irritation they must feel, at seeing themselves excluded from an equal participation of the privileges enjoyed by their Protestant fellow subjects; an exclusion which must naturally prove so galling to freemen. Such forbearance and such admonition, would have only been the act of a mild, beneficent, and paternal government: but such a disposition was not to be expected from the noble lords opposite; though they might well suppose it to be the disposition of the illustrious
1211Lord Grenville
109 thought it right to call the attention of the House to a point which he conceived to be of considerable importance, relating to the case of the Berkeley Peerage. In all questions of this nature, it was the practice of the House to give notice to the person who had the semblance of right to the Peerage claimed, in case the actual claimant did not make good his claim, in order that he might appoint some one to attend at the bar, to take care of his interests. In the present case, the person who would be entitled, if the now claimant to the Berkeley Peerage did not make good his claim, namely, the son of the second marriage, in fact was a minor, and could not, therefore, legally appoint any one to take care of his interests, and lady Berkeley was appointed his guardian. Lady Berkeley was anxious that what was right should be done, and as it was highly desirable that her ladyship should be relieved from the peculiarly difficult situation in which she would stand between the interests of her two sons, he. suggested that the most satisfactory course would be to address his royal highness the Prince Regent to direct one of the law officers of the crown to attend at the bar, to take care of the interests of this younger son. His lordship concluded by giving notice of his intention to move to-morrow for a
109The Lord Chancellor
*110 called the attention of their lordships to a circumstance which he considered of the greatest importance: he alluded to the verdict of a coroner's jury in January last, on the body of a person deceased in the Marshalsea prison, and who was stated to hare died from want. The particulars of this case were peculiarly afflicting. The unfortunate individual was immured in the Marshalsea prison in November last, for a debt of only seven pounds. It appeared that he was in the greatest distress, and had no other means of subsistence than the charity of his unhappy fellow sufferers in the same prison. He was reduced even to gnaw the bones which were thrown into the yard; he had neither bed nor cloathing; the miserable room which he inhabited had no window; and when the jury viewed the body, it was in a state which it was impossible to describe. The coroner's jury had actually returned a verdict of "starved to death," but upon re-consideration, they finally returned the mitigated verdict of "we verily believe that the deceased's death was caused by want of food and cloathing, and of proper attention in his illness." The facts which he stated could be proved in evidence, is thought necessary, at their lordships' bar. He thought it right to mention, that two shillings were found upon the deceased, but from all the circumstances that had transpired, (here was every reason to believe, that these two shillings, if not conveyed into the pocket of the deceased after his death, were at least given to him at a period when it was too late to be of any service to him. From the slow process of the law, five months must elapse before the prisoner for debt could obtain from his creditor who kept him in prison, the miserable pittance of six-pence per day, and this wretched individual had, in the mean time, been reduced to this dreadful state of distress. He thought it his duty to make a motion, in order that this case might be brought before the House, and more particularly at this time, when the law of Debtor and Creditor was under their lordships' consideration, upon the I bills which had been by the noble and learned lord (Redesdale) presented to their notice. If their lordships had any wish to stand well with the people, he was cer-
*110Lord Holland
Ex Officio148147Hard words and hanging, if your judge be Page?146145Ex OfficioEx Officio144eo intuituEx Officioll143si justitœ causâ cur non in omnes? si misericordiœ cur in hunc?noli prosequi142Ex Officioeo intuituEx Officio141Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx Officio140Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx Officio139obiter dictumEx Officio138Ex Officio137Ex OfficioEx Officio136obiter dictumobiter dictumEx OfficioEx Officio135134133in parimateriâ132131primâ facieex officio130 rose and said, be had little apprehension, when he first gave notice of his motion, that it would meet with any opposition. It was indeed a motion so consonant to parliamentary usage, so obviously enjoined by the duties of the legislature, and so natural a consequence of measures recently adopted by the House, that he had hoped it might have met with the entire concurrence of their lordships. In this, however, he was mistaken—he had received an intimation (for the politeness of which he acknowledged himself obliged) from a quarter where he knew that opposition in that House was seldom fruitless, and it had therefore become necessary for him to trouble their lordships more at length than he could have wished, to explain the grounds on which this motion rested, and at the same time to state as explicitly the ulterior objects to which, if acceded to, he should call their attention.—The motion he had to submit was merely for information, it was merely for a list of such
Ex Officio148147Hard words and hanging, if your judge be Page?146145Ex OfficioEx Officio144eo intuituEx Officioll143si justitœ causâ cur non in omnes? si misericordiœ cur in hunc?noli prosequi142Ex Officioeo intuituEx Officio141Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx Officio140Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx Officio139obiter dictumEx Officio138Ex Officio137Ex OfficioEx Officio136obiter dictumobiter dictumEx OfficioEx Officio135134133in parimateriâ132131primâ facieex officio130Lord Holland
153Ex Officio claimed of their lordships' justice, their attention for one moment. He appealed to their recollection, both as to what had been said by him, and as to the manner in which it had been attempted to be answered. He would not say, merely, that the learned lord had not stated the facts, but that he had stated what was directly contrary to the facts; the learned lord had charged him with denying the legality of 153Ex OfficioLord Holland
163Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx OfficioEx Officio162 said, that after the very able and eloquent manner in which the subject under discussion had been treated by noble lords of distinguished talents and learning, he could have been well satisfied without offering himself to the attention of the House. But, as he was anxious that the vote which he should give, if his noble friend (Holland) should divide the House, might be subject to no misconception, he begged shortly to state the grounds on which that vote would be given. And he was the more anxious to be clearly understood, after witnessing the extent of that misconception which prevailed in the mind of the noble and learned lord (Ellenborough), upon what had fallen from his noble friend. Feeling, as he did, that the English language did not afford terms of sufficient energy and expression to enable him to signify the surprise he felt at that misconception and misrepresentation, he wished to guard particularly against a similar danger. He fully concurred in the opinions of the learned lords
163Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx OfficioEx Officio162The Marquis of Lansdowne
165 said, that the same motives which induced the noble lord to give his reasons for voting in favour of the motion, prevailed with him to give his reasons for voting against it. The motion was for information, and the question which would naturally suggest itself upon this was, whether such information was necessary or not? It appeared to him that it was not necessary: for every information of this kind could be obtained by other means than an application to parliament. He knew perfectly well, that, if it was in contemplation to follow up the motion by any parliamentary proceeding, such an application should be made; but when the operation of the motion was to bring suspicion on the administration of justice, which he agreed ought not even to be suspected, when this was the case, he must say that the course for the noble lord would be to select any prosecution of which he complained as oppressive, and then to make his motion for inquiry. To tell them that the prosecutions for the three last years exceeded in number the prosecutions of former years, was telling them nothing; it might proceed from different causes, from the diffusion of learning, or even from the circumstance of too great lenity having been shewn before. He believed if they looked to the libels of different times, they would find that they were much the same, or perhaps if they differed in any thing, they were worse in former times: but after this admission he must observe, that though perhaps in particular instances the evil was not as great, yet the extent to which it was carried, in those times, required a more vigorous prosecution. The frequency of libels in modern times, arose out of the progress of civilization. Publications of all kinds became more numerous than formerly, and libels also might be expected to multiply; but when it was said that the prosecutions of the Attorney-General were subjects of such universal complaint, he believed that if the complaints were collected, it would be found that the far greater number charged him with too much lenity. He would refer for the character of his prosecutions to their results, to the decisions of the juries upon them, and they would find that of all the prosecutions actually brought to trial, only two had failed. It might be necessary for the peace of the country that prosecutions should increase. The House in the exercise of its coastitutional
165The earl of Liverpool
Ex Officio174versus*versus*imprimatur173Ex OfficioEx Officioprimâ facieprimâ facieEx Officioprimâ facie172primâ facieEx Officio171Ex Officio170Ex Officioin toto.169nondum finitus OrestesEx Officio168167166 rose in reply and said: My Lords; I rose before to claim of your lordships' justice the right of explanation. I rise now to ask of your courtesy that which is never refused to the mover of a question, the privilege of saying a few words, at the close of a debate, on what has passed in the course of it. I cannot, however, pretend that I rise to reply, for what arguments have been adduced by the other side that have not been answered by my noble friends, that have not been triumphantly exposed and refuted in the excellent speech of my noble relation (the marquis of Lansdown)? Any observation on objections so refuted would be ill-judged and unnecessary; and yet, my Lords, I must trespass for a few minutes on your time, for I feel myself called upon, not, indeed, to answer arguments, but to repel accusations and charges; not to combat objections to my motion, but to vindicate my character from aspersions which have been thrown out, I will not say in a disorderly and unparliamentary manner, but, at least, in a style and tone which, fortunately for the dignity of your deliberations, is rare and unusual in this
Ex Officio174versus*versus*imprimatur173Ex OfficioEx Officioprimâ facieprimâ facieEx Officioprimâ facie172primâ facieEx Officio171Ex Officio170Ex Officioin toto.169nondum finitus OrestesEx Officio168167166Lord Holland
prima facie160Ex OfficioEx Officioof Ex Officio159Ex Officio observed, that he could say with his noble friend that he also felt grateful for the honours with which a gracious master had rewarded his humble services; and that humble as his efforts might have been, those who were to inherit those honours from him would know that he had done his duty. As to the distinctions which had been drawn between the proceedings in the case of treason and libel, it should be remembered that in the former the accusation rests upon general principles—in the latter upon an alledged specific fact. He believed that no Attorney General had prosecuted more libels than it had fallen to his lot to prosecute when he held that office. He acted on a conviction at that time, certainly, that the publication of libel was one of the most formidable weapons then wielded against the constitution; and that it was an engine which was directed to the subversion of the government of the country. It was grateful to him to reflect that he had, by his conduct then, done his part towards its preservation. As to what had been introduced on the subject of special juries, he could not perceive how that was at all connected with the object of the noble baron's motion; but he would remind the House, that if any alteration was attempted in the present mode of regulating special juries, the same principle would equally apply to some change in the system of summoning common juries, who were all returned at the discretion of the Sheriff. (Hear, hear!) He did not know the meaning of this exclamation, but he could assure noble lords he spoke for the purpose of being heard. It was his decided opinion, that the mere fact of the number of prosecutions having increased, by a considerable number, in the last ten years, was not a sufficient ground for inducing them to accede to the motion of the noble lord. He must do that noble lord the justice to say, that he had, when the late act respecting prima facie160Ex OfficioEx Officioof Ex Officio159Ex OfficioThe Lord Chancellor
 observed, that after the able speech of the noble baron near him, it was unnecessary for him to obtrude a single word on their lordships. That speech had remained unanswered and unanswerable; except the misrepresentation of the noble and learned lord (Ellenborough) could be considered as an answer. He felt the deepest regret at hearing the sentiments that fell from that noble person. He thought that his noble friend had laid before the House good and substantial grounds for his motion, and he should, therefore, support it. Enough had been stated to justify an investigation into the practice of the Attorney General's office.The Earl of Grosvenor
155154Ex Officioin terroremEx OfficioEx Officio. in justice to his noble friend, could not help stating, that in point of fact he certainly did not question the legality of Informations 155154Ex Officioin terroremEx OfficioEx Officio.Earl Stanhope,
, in explanation, said, that while the noble lord was professing not to dispute the legality of information, he was, in fact, questioning it.Lord Ellenborough
152Ex Officio151Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx Officioobiter dictumEx Officio150noli prosequi149 had expected that, in I bringing forward the motion, which had
152Ex Officio151Ex OfficioEx OfficioEx Officioobiter dictumEx Officio150noli prosequi149Lord Ellenborough
161 said, that as it had not been his lot to institute any prosecutions for libel, while he was Attorney General, he could at least give an unbiassed vote on this occasion. From his acquaintance with the gentleman who now filled that office, he was enabled to say, that he was sure no man could feel more pain than he did in discharging the irksome duties of his situation. It had been insinuated, that he acted by the advice and under the direction of ministers; he would not deny that this might be sometimes the case; but it ought
161Lord Redesdale
Ex Officio157156Ex Officio said, that in his way of considering the subject before the House, it was not necessary that his noble friend, who had moved for the informations tiled within the last ten years, should be able to establish by evidence a probable ground of abuse to entitle him to have the papers he asked for. It would be sufficient for him to show that from any cause, from the increase, for instance, of printing and of periodical publications, a very large body of the people were daily subject, in the exercise of useful and honest occupations, to a prosecution, not attempted to be vindicated by the greatest law authorities, but as an anomaly in the constitution for the punishment of enormous offenders against the very existence of the State. On this principle he admitted that Informations Ex Officio157156Ex OfficioLord Erskine
 in pursuance of his notice, moved for the appointment of a Select Committee, to consider and report what measures may be most expedient to adopt, for the purpose of expediting the hearing and determining of Appeals and Writs of Error in the House of Lords. His lordship observed, that he should not attempt to anticipate what the recommendation of the committee might be. It was clear that some measure was necessary, there being now upwards of 270 appeals and writs of error before the House, and it being quite impossible, unless more time was devoted to hearing them than had hitherto been employed for that purpose, that the arrear of business could be got through before another arrear as great or greater had accumulated. Neither should he now observe upon what regulation it might be deemed necessary to make respecting the proceedings of the courts of equity below, in consequence of a larger portion of the attention hitherto devoted to those courts being given to the judicial proceedings of that House, as that subject would most probably come under the cognizance of the committee.The Lord Chancellor,
 opposed the motion, on the ground that it was not applicable to the present stage of the proceeding, the object for consideration being simply what means should be adopted to do that which had evidently become necessary, namely, to expedite the judicial business of the House. When the committee made their report, it would then be for the House to determine finally what measures should be adopted. The motion was negatived.The earl of Liverpool
 then entered into the consideration of the subject at length, for the purpose of shewing that the grounds of the judicial decisions of the House ought to be put upon record. His lordship, in the course of his speech, stated the number of appeals now before the House, up to yesterday, to be, from the courts of King's-bench, Exchequer, and Exchequer Chamber, in England, 35; from the courts of Chancery in England and Ireland, 43; and from Scotland, including two from the court of Exchequer, 195; making a total of 273. The delay thus arising was so great, that if not remedied, what was said by the witty lord Chesterfield to a lord complaining of a horse which he could not keep from breaking down his fences, except by putting him in a court enclosed by high walls, "Put him into the court of chancery, depend upon it he will never get out;" might be applied by some future witty lord to the court of last appeal in that House. His lordship concluded by moving, "That it be an instruction to the said committee to consider, whether it would or would not be highly advantageous, in the distribution of justice, that this House should put concisely upon record, the points or principles of law, which shall form, in future, the grounds of each of its judicial decisions?"Earl Stanhope
 agreed that there was much weight in many of his noble friend's observations, but they could not induce him to endanger the passing of the Bill. He was so wedded to the principle of it, that he would overlook many imperfections in it, rather than not have something of what it aimed at. If absolute perfection could not be immediately attained in such matters, what was less objectionable should in the mean time be adopted, until they might gradually arrive at that perfection which every noble lord must feel to be so desirable.—He should not therefore oppose the Bill, hoping however that the noble and learned lord who brought it in, would exert his abilities to render it as unobjectionable as possible.Lord Holland
365 supported the arguments of lord Redesdale. He thought the proposing of an oath in the first instance the only practical mode of proceeding under all the circumstances of the case. How else could any thing like correct statements be expected to be given in by debtors, who, in the different and distant prisons of the country, could not be examined as to fair or unfair statements of the amount of their effects in the chief towns of their respective counties? Ought it not moreover to be a national consideration
365The Lord Chancellor
 complained of the expression "the honest creditor," as if it insinuated that those who felt for the unfortunate debtor had lost sight of the claims of the honest creditor.Lord Holland
 disclaimed any intention of imputing such motives to any noble lord; and observed, that as the noble and learned lord who brought in the Bill had many amendments to propose, whether it might not be better to allow that noble and learned lord now to propose his amendments, than to have the Bill, as amended by him, printed, and afterwards to re-commit it as thus amended, for the further consideration of their lordships.The Lord Chancellor
363 rose to express his dissatisfaction with the provisions of the Bill, the principle of which he was, notwithstanding, anxious to support. To many of the different clauses of the Bill, he had strong objections. To the first clause in the Bill, that which went to the appointment of only one person to preside in the proposed court, he must particularly object. He should prefer the suggestion offered on a former occasion by a noble and learned lord, that three or four persons should be appointed instead of one; simply for this reason, that where three or four presided, justice was more impartially and properly administered than where only one presided. Besides, it was well known that the time and attention of the Lord Chancellor were otherwise so much engrossed, that he could not; indeed, it was impossible for him to give the time and attention it required, to the transaction of the bankrupt business. He should therefore imagine, that if three or more fit persons were appointed to the court proposed by this Bill, the business of bankrupts might be safely transferred to that court, and thus relieve the Lord Chancellor from that weight of multiplied business by which it was evident that the noble, and learned lord must be encumbered. He had also to object to the clause which proposed an oath, in the first instance, to be taken by the debtor, instead of allowing him to give in a statement of his effects, which he might afterwards be called upon to confirm by oath. To take the oath in the first instance, when recollection might not serve him to state minutely and accurately the exact number of his creditors, the sums which were respectively due to them, &c. together with a detailed and correct account of his own estate and effects, would have the effect of making him liable to perjury, or at least to the suspicion of perjury. The form of the oath was, besides, too long, and might be wholly unintelligible to that class of persons, Poor Debtors, by whom it was to be taken. Here, moreover, was an unnecessary addition to the many oaths. Excise oaths. Custom-house oaths, &c. which but too much familiarised people with that sacred and awful declaration, on which
363Earl Stanhope
 complained that he had been misrepresented by the noble and learned lord, and that to many of his objections no answer whatsoever had been given. He would still insist that it was absurd in the first instance to propose an oath, for though it might not have the effect of making the debtor perjure himself, it would lead him to forswear himself, which, in his opinion, was making light of the most serious and solemn obligation by which it was possible for man to bind himself.Earl Stanhope
364 was not very tenacious of the provisions of the Bill, as they now stood, so as the suggested Amendments did not trench on the principle, or depart from the precedent, on which the Bill was framed and founded. He could see no necessity, at least no immediate necessity, for the appointment of three, instead of one fit person to preside in the court. If one person should be found competent to the task it imposed, why appoint three or four, especially at a time when economy was so necessary, and so frequently inculcated; for it could not be expected that a person, qualified for the discharge of such important functions, should bestow his time and labour on the discharge of such functions, without an adequate remuneration? That remuneration must be extended to three instead of one, if three instead of one were to be employed; and thus the burden on the public would be unnecessarily trebled. As to the objection of proposing an oath in the first instance, he could see no foundation for it. In framing the present Bill, he had constantly in his eye the provisions of former Insolvent Acts, in all of which a similar oath was prescribed. Indeed, without some guard and sanction of that nature, he was at a loss to see how too wide a door might not be opened to the fraudulent instead of the unfortunate debtor, or how the justice that was due to the honest creditor could
364Lord Redesdale
370 did not see the necessity of the clause, or the propriety of the mode in which the noble earl would
370The Earl of Liverpool
371 acknowledged such to be the disposition and the practice of government both here and in Ireland, but still he did not see the fairness of the noble Secretary's argument, that, by admitting the proposed clause, that disposition would be called into doubt. Such he could not conceive to be the nature of a legislative declaration such as that proposed by his noble friend. On the contrary, the object of such declarations was not to give rise to, but to remove doubts, if any such happened to exist. He felt how very important was the point now under discussion. Their lordships would not forget that the part of the United Kingdom to which it chiefly referred had long been most productive for the recruiting service, and promised to be still more, and the demands for that service were more likely to increase than diminish. Of what importance, therefore, was it that no impediment or discouragement should exist in a part of the United Kingdom so resourceful, in this respect, to the success of our military means. If any doubt should exist in so delicate a point as that of conscience as to modes of faith and wor-
371The Marquis of Lansdowne
 asked if there was any alteration in the Bill since last year?The Duke of Norfolk
 stated, that the only material alteration was giving a discretionary power to Courts Martial, either to inflict corporal punishment, or to sentence to imprisonment.—The House then resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill.The Earl of Liverpool
368 suggested an alteration in a part of the Articles of War, which, however, he did not mean to press at the present moment. By one of the Articles, the Judge Advocate (in cases where there was no private prosecutor) was directed to prosecute at Courts Martial in the name of his Majesty. The Judge Advocate was also the adviser of the court. It happened in one instance within his knowledge, that there was an argument on a point at a Court Martial, between the Judge Advocate, who was the prosecutor, and the counsel for the prisoner, and the court being about to deliberate upon the point, strangers were ordered to withdraw, and the counsel for the prisoner was, of course, obliged to retire, whilst the Judge Advocate remained. He thought in such
368The Earl of Radnor
 observed, that the practice generally was to appoint a prosecutor, if there was no private prosecutor, and that at all events the Judge Advocate had no right to vote at the court. He would, however, make inquiry, and consider the noble earl's suggestion.The Earl of Liverpool
 then suggested the expediency of altering the clause respecting the period of bringing offences before Courts Martial. At present it stood that no Court Martial could be held respecting any offence which appeared to have been committed more than three years before. This time, he thought, was, in some instances, too long, and in others too short. He proposed to reduce it to a year, with respect to Courts Martial summoned by subordinate authorities; that it should be three years with reference to Courts Martial directed by his Majesty, giving a larger period, extending to five years, in distant parts.The Earl of Radnor
 promised to make inquiry, and to consider the suggestion by the next stage of the Bill.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought the period of a year would be in many cases too short, as evidence could not probably be obtained, particularly respecting matters of account, within the time.The Earl of Rosslyn
369 rose to propose a separate clause to the Bill, of the justice, policy, and propriety of which, he was confident that every noble lord must be sensible. The clause which he should have the honour of moving would go to rescue a very numerous class of men from the most despotic tyranny, the most desperate oppression which was ever attempted to be exercised over human beings. Their lordships must be aware of certain circumstances which, from their recent occurrence, it was unnecessary for him to state, which made the adoption of the clause he had in view, not only expedient, but absolutely necessary. Their lordships must bear in mind, that nearly the half of the British navy and army was composed of dissenters from the established church, that those dissenters amounted in number to four or five millions of persons, if not more; and that the House must be sensi-
369Earl Stanhope
 briefly replied. He said he exulted in having brought forward a clause, the principle of which no noble lord had been hardy enough to question, and to have gained this point was to him matter of great triumph, and would be felt as such by all honest, impartial, and reflecting men. That consideration alone was fully sufficient to induce him to persevere in his motion.Earl Stanhope
 could not but consider the clause as unnecessary. He happened to have been in a situation which enabled him to know that the orders issued at that time by the commander in chief had been strictly attended to; and that they had since been executed with equal strictness and attention. As long therefore as they were punctually executed, he was not aware of the necessity of any legislative measure in this respect; but as he approved of the principle of the clause, so would he be ready to support it any time when he should see a fair necessity for its adoption.Earl Spencer
 observed, that as the noble lords to whom the noble earl alluded had expressed no wish of deferring till Thursday the third reading of the Bill, he could see no just ground for not proceeding in the Bill during their absence. Had they intimated such, he should undoubtedly have acquiesced in it, from the usual courtesy observed on such occasions; but no such wish having been manifested, it was unnecessary to interpose any further delay in the progress of the Bill, the more so, as the period of its expiring so nearly approached.The Earl of Liverpool
 vindicated both the government of Ireland and England from imputation or blame with regard to their conduct towards the Roman Catholic soldiers.Lord Clancarty
 thought it would greatly promote the recruiting service that a general legislative-declaration should be adopted, to remove all doubts and hesitations on this very important point.Lord Rosslyn
ex-parteex-parte was furnished with a sufficient answer to the arguments of the noble earl, by the acknowledgments in his own speech. The noble earl confessed that the only case which was reported to the noble commander in-chief in Ireland, met with immediate redress; and that with regard to the case in Sicily, it came to the noble earl in the shape of an ex-parteex-parteThe Earl of Liverpool
 briefly replied, and said he should not divide the House on his proposition, as the noble lords connected with Ireland were absent, who, if present, would have strenuously supported him—The noble earl's proposition was therefore negatived without a division; the Bill read a third time and passed.Earl Stanhope
 observed, that within these few years the Mutiny Bill had not passed that House before the 27th March.Earl Stanhope
386385 next rose to propose a rider to the Bill, which, in his opinion, contained matter of much importance, and which could not fail of having a most salutary tendency. The ground adduced on a former night by the noble Secretary of State, for rejecting the amendment which he had the honour to propose was, that no fact had been stated to prove the necessity of adopting the amendment. He had remarked at the time that he did not think it necessary to state any facts—that he rested the propriety of his amendment on its justice and expediency, and if he abstained from mentioning facts and names, it was because he felt anxious to forbear from every thing that might tend to irritate and inflame. But as the noble Secretary slighted his amendment because it did not come backed by facts, he should now state a few facts which he challenged the noble Secretary to controvert. The noble earl then read extracts from letters which minutely detailed the case of a private in the Enniskillen regiment, who had been sentenced to perform duty publicly in a turned coat, and condemned to several days confinement in the black hole of the prison for having refused to attend Divine Service, according to the rites of the established church. The case of this private had been communicated by a Mr. Vernon, a barrister to the earl of Harrington, and almost immediately on that noble earl having received the communication, orders were issued by him for discontinuing such practices, and for faithfully adhering in this respect to the general orders which
386385Earl Stanhope
384 expressed his surprise, that, after what had passed on a former night, when the Bill was under discussion, the noble Secretary of State should have brought forward the third reading that night, when those noble lords who took a more particular interest in the question, and who wished to pay every possible attention to the state and concerns of Ireland, were unavoidably absent, and that for the laudable purpose of forwarding the interests of a benevolent Irish Institution. Another business (the Message respecting the Subsidy to Portugal) had on that account been postponed from Monday till Thursday; and he was at a loss to see why a question which more nearly interested the feelings and opinions of the representative peers of Ireland, should not also be deferred till that day.
384Earl Stanhope
 complained that ministers had given no better reason, in his mind, a most absurd one, for opposing the noble earl's Amendment, namely, that it would call into doubt the sincerity of government in issuing the orders which were to prevent any obstruction to the free exercise of their religion by the Roman Catholic soldiers. Could a legislative declaration create, did it not rather remove all doubt in such circumstances? and as making the matter clear and intelligible to all the world, it was his opinion that such a legislative declaration should be adopted.The Earl of Carlisle
387 vindicated the conduct of the Irish government with respect to these matters, both during the five years he had been employed in that country, and also during the government of his predecessor. For the whole of that
387The Earl of Hardwicke
 did not object to the first reading of the Bill, but reserved to himself the opportunity of expressing his sentiments with respect to such a measure on a subsequent stage. He continued, however, to think that such a legislative provision was wholly unnecessary.The Earl of Liverpool
445 rose to move, pursuant to notice, for the printing of the evidence and the verdict given at the inquisition of the coroner of Surry, on the view of the body of the unfortunate man who died in the Marshalsea prison. The noble lord prefaced his motion with a variety of observations, tending to shew the propriety of the proceeding he recommended, and also of a further investigation into the business. There appeared to him, on his view of the evidence, a degree of inconsistency between what had been so delivered, and the verdict pronounced by the jury. A degree of mystery seemed to hang upon it, and even in justice to the jury, the proceedings, he thought, should be printed, and the whole case further investigated. Were his interference on the present occasion attended with no other effect than to call the attention of the legislature generally to the state of the pri-
445Lord Holland
 entertained a different opinion upon the subject, and referred to some instances in history, where, in cases nearly similar, such transactions were held to involve a depreciation of the paper currency. He coincided with his noble friend, with respect to the identity of the dollars so circulated with the current coin of the realm. Such a miserable attempt at distinction, was, he observed, amply refuted by Locke, and other intelligent writers upon the subject.The Earl of Lauderdale
, in explanation, denied the inference, that his Majesty's government had declared them a legal tender.Earl Buthurst
 made some observations with respect to the state of the paper currency, particularly in Ireland, where it was in far more favourable a state than some noble lords seemed to think. The issues of the Bank of Ireland had narrowed considerably since the investigation took place; the state of the exchange with Ireland was improved; and the difference between a guinea and Bank paper was, in that country lately, only four-pence.The Earl of Ross
 adverted to the causes of the improved state of the Bank of Ireland currency, as alluded to by the noble earl; it was principally to be attributed to the great reduction of the issue of Bank of Ireland notes, which took place soon after the inquiry.The Earl of Lauderdale
450449 rose, for the purpose of moving an Address to his Royal Highness on the occasion. It was one, he observed, on which he naturally expected that under the circumstances of the case, the general concurrence of their lordships, would be signified. The facts and circumstances to which the message referred, were of indisputable notoriety, and the policy and wisdom of the measure to be proposed rested upon principles of public faith, and incontrovertible grounds of public wisdom. On these grounds, in the present stage of the discussion, it would be the lessnecessary to enter into the reasons upon which his Royal Highness founded his expectations of receiving the general concurrence and support of their lordships. They all knew and should feel, that the present moment was the very crisis of the fortunes of our magnanimous ally; she was in the very zenith of her exertions, co-operating with us against the common enemy; and surely it was impossible to think that an idea or a desire could be entertained of checking or suspending the successful progress of our common exertions. The exertions made by Portugal, independent of the aid she received from this country, were of themselves considerable; but how much more efficacious these may be rendered with due assistance from this country, may be inferred from what was now well known to their lordships to have resulted from the aid already afforded by us to Portugal. She had been stimulated thereby to a degree of exertion before unknown in the annals of the country, and these efforts, when assisted by and combined with those made by Britain, had produced a tide of success unparalleled in the history of any country in Europe. Her present formidable military force has risen from a lower scale of establishment and discipline than could be paralleled in any country of Europe; but it had proceeded progressively under the inspirating auspices of excellentand skilful British officers to its present state of perfection. To prove the value and efficiency of the Portuguese troops, he need only add, that during the campaign which had just passed, they had been sharers in all the toils endured, and partners in all the glories achieved, by the British soldiery. But this was not all; the system to which his Royal Highness in his gracious message referred, had proved a pregnant and perennial source of other important advantages. It tended
450449The Marquss Wellesley
458 was surprised the noble lord should complain that no intimation had been given of the amount of the
458The Earl of Liverpool
 rose to explain.Lord Grernville
 said, the noble lord would have an opportunity when he had concluded.The Earl of Liverpool
461460459 continued to ob serve, that such had been at the time, not only the view of the noble lord, but it wag widely entertained by many who were most anxious to give every assistance to Portugal, and who differed totally from the noble lord in sentiment. They had in this instance proposed the measure submitted by the motion of his noble friend, upon no speculative ground, but founded on an experience of exertions on the part of the Portuguese, which had exceeded the expectations even of the most sanguine; and far surpassed any calculations in which he himself' had ventured to indulge. As to the general policy of subsidies granted to foreign powers, he had frequently before discussed that subject with the noble baron He knew that it was the opinion of many, that they generally tended rather to
461460459The Earl of Liverpool
462 observed, that
462The Earl of Grosvenor
 entertained similar sentiments with noble lords on his side of the House, respecting the recent conduct of the bank directors. He reprobated it as a transaction of which the foulest advantages might be made, in case of the directors having given private notice to their friends of their intention to raise the price of dollars upon such a day. There had been cases as bad. It was known that some individuals had by some means extricated certain secrets from Mr. Pitt, when at the head of affairs, and by means of such secrets, they had acquired large properties. The motion was then agreed to, as was also a motion for an Address to the Prince Regent, praying, That copies of the correspondence between his Majesty's government and the Bank of England, on the occasion in question, be laid before the House.Earl Stanhope
 urged, as a reason to the contrary, the extreme brevity of the Bill, which contained but two clauses, and was very unlike those cloak-bags of acts, which the noble and learned lord was used to.—He notified his intention to move the second reading of the Bill on Tuesday.Earl Stanhope
 addressed their lordships on the great fitness and propriety of enacting, by a separate legislative provision, the proposition he brought forward on a former evening, and proposed as a clause or rider to the Mutiny Bill. The title of the Bill he now proposed to introduce was, "An Act for the better securing Liberty of Conscience."Earl Stanhope
 took occasion to observe, that such a step was not regularly in the power of ministers. By the law and the constitution, that power was vested elsewhere.Lord Ellenborough
 made a few observations in consequence of what fell from the noble lord. He expressed his desire for every proper investigation to be made into the affair alluded to, and his individual willingness to exert himself to that end; but he suggested that the appointment of a Committee to inquire would be a much more efficacious mode. His lord-ship also observed, that the buildings and repairs alluded to by the noble lord, for the better accommodation of the prisoners, were in considerable forwardness.The Earl of Aylesford
 expressed his satisfaction at the subject being brought forward, as no persons could be more anxious for its investigation than the members of his Majesty's government, who readily took ail the responsibility on themselves. With respect to one pointed remark of his noble friend, he must observe, that any man must plainly see the difference between the regular current coin of the realm, issued by his Majesty, and the Tokens of the Bank, which were only to be regarded in the same light as Bank-notes. He must take that opportunity to protest against any conclusion drawn from this measure, as to the depreciation of Bank paper; all that could be inferred from the transaction, was a rise in the price of silver. This might be attributed to various causes, especially, perhaps, to an increased demand for that precious metal, but it could, by no means, be attributed to any depreciation of the notes issued by the Bank.Earl Bathurst
446 said he should beg leave, before their lordships proceeded to the order of the day, to call their attention to a circumstance which appeared to him of the utmost importance. What he was about to advert to, every man was acquainted with, namely, the Directors of the Bank of England having taken upon themselves to exercise the highest prerogative of the sovereign, not less than to raise the denomination of the current coin of the realm, and by the advice of a Committee of the King's privy council. He confessed that all the ideas he had formed of the monarchy under which we lived, and even all his ideas of the parliamentary constitution of the country, were erroneous, if the measure to which he alluded were justifiable. It was further to be considered, that these steps were taken without even referring to or consulting parliament; and this too at a moment when the House of Commons was actually engaged in the consideration of the subject. He proposed to move for a copy of the Resolution of the Directors, in order to bring the facts of the case regularly under the purview of the House, and to enable their lordships to form their opinions, not only upon the particular measure, but upon the great subject con-
446Lord Grenville
447, in reply, observed, that the time would come when the Bank Directors would have to answer for their conduct with respect to other matters, as well as that in question; but in the pre-
447Lord Grenville
457l456455454453452451 said, that the situation in which their lordships at present stood was peculiar and unexampled, a situation which would by no means justify any relaxation in the discharge of their duty to the country, but which imposed on them embarrassments and doubts as to the manner in which that duty ought to be discharged. It was notorious that, on account of the calamity which had befallen them, the constitutional relation between the crown and its ministers and Parliament was completely suspended. He had no idea, however, that the functions of Parliament were also suspended. He had no idea that they were not to adopt what measures might appear best for the interest of the country—that they were not to adopt what would place the country in
457l456455454453452451Lord Grenville
 said, that had he misrepresented his sentiments that night, he should have waited to the end of his speech; but as he was misrepresenting his sentiments on a former occasion, it was proper to expose the misrepresentation immediately.Lord Grenville
526525524 rose and said; I rise, my Lords, to bring forward the motion of which I had the honour to give notice on a former evening. In introducing it, I shall endeavour to preclude, as far as possible, all difference of sentiment, by abstaining carefully from any topic upon which a difference of opinion may have been formed. I shall therefore confine myself to the direct question to which my notice referred, and upon which I trust I shall have the unanimous support of your lordships. It is to pay the tribute of our decided approbation and applause, to the gallant army under lieut, general Graham. An army and a commander, my Lords, who have given the most signal and brilliant proofs of valour and skill, of
526525524The Earl of Liverpool
530 observed, that the situation of affairs now and in 1793 were extremely different: at that period, the great evil complained of was the want of a circulating medium. Surely no one could now complain of the want of a circulating medium of Bank paper. It was admitted by the noble earl, that a measure of this nature ought not to be resorted to, to cure the evil arising from an over-stocked market through excessive speculation. But if the evil was the want of a market, how such a measure could remedy it did not appear from the speech of the noble earl, and at least it ought to be shewn, before such a measure was resorted to, that the evil was only temporary, and Would, in all probability, cease in a certain
530Lord King
531 said that he could not conceive any measure to differ more from that of 1793 than the present. Then a relief became necessary to the internal circulation of the country, while at present that circulation was not in the least affected. There was no want of circulating medium at this moment in the country, and the present distress was such as no circulating medium could remedy. In truth the government could not interfere in the present difficulties without violating all the general and received rules
531The Marquis of Lansdowne
 did not see any grounds for departing from the acknowledged principles of political economy on the present occasion. He thought that the man must be bold indeed who, in the present commercial distress, durst oppose the present measure. The reason alleged for the distress in the report was contradicted by the magistrates and merchants of London, who considered that the overtrading to South America was but a very small part of the cause of that distress, and that it was principally to be attributed to the warehousing system. An additional capital could only then add to the calamity. A noble earl had strongly urged the benefit derived from the measure in 1793; but the difficulties then were such as without any legislative interference would have had a favourable termination. To attribute the ensuing prosperity to that measure was like the physician taking credit for a cure which nature would have operated without his assistance.The Earl of Lauderdale
532 observed, that those
532The Earl of Ross
 replied to the arguments of the noble lord who had just sat down. He observed, that if the present distress of the commercial world arose from the causes assigned by that noble baron, it was rather extraordinary that it was only a particular class of the mercantile community, that had experienced embarrassment. If the noble baron's opinion were correct, it was not any particular class, but the whole commercial body, that would have been affected. In ordinary times the established principles of trade and commerce should be inviolably observed, and any evils which might happen to arise, should be left to correct themselves in the regular routine of commercial enterprises. But there were moments of extraordinary and unnatural pressure, when it would not only be wise, but must be indispensible to depart from those general principles; when a feeling of humanity, no less than a regard to public interest, called for and authorised the grant of public assistance to the unfortunate sufferers, but most particularly when their embarrassments and distresses may have arisen out of the extraordinary circumstances of the times and the unavoidable difficulties of the country, brought on as they had been by the unparalleled injustice and monstrous measures of an unprincipled enemy.The Earl of Liverpool
527 expressed his approbation of the candour, with which the noble secretary had brought forward his motion, and declared himself to be equally anxious to abstain from touching upon any topic which might give rise to a difference of opinion on such an occasion as the present. The noble earl had certainly adduced sufficient grounds for the unanimous vote of thanks in the relation he had given of one of the most brilliant services ever performed by a British army. He could not, however, deny himself the satisfaction of expressing his own most cordial concurrence in the motion. As far as the British arms were concerned, the affair was entitled to the most unqualified praise. If Cadiz was not relieved from the pressure of a siege, it was not for want of exertion on the part of the British army. The affair was of that nature in all its circumstances that promptitude and decision were principally called for, and it was impossible to describe, in adequate terms, the skill and energy with which that decision was formed, or the celerity and vigour with which it was carried into effect. It was never exceeded by any of those actions to which the glorious feelings of national pride looked back with satisfaction and delight. It was certainly a proud recollection for the natives of these islands, that not only their power at sea, when fleet was opposed to fleet, and ship to ship, was so decidedly superior, but that also on land, and on an occasion too, where British troops were placed in a situation, by circumstances not of their own creating, they had also evinced a decided superiority! The action, he repeated, as far as the troops under general Graham were concerned, was entitled to unqualified praise. But he could not suppose that his Majesty's ministers were so destitute of discrimination or of feelings, with respect to an effusion of British blood, as not to adopt such measures as would in future prevent the recurrence of such an event as occurred. He would not now introduce topics which might create feelings adverse to the unanimity that ought to prevail; he trusted, however, that firm representations would be made against conduct that so long had favoured the success of the enemy, and that such a system of vigour and determination would be acted upon, as would evince it was not yet too late for the achievement of complete success. He
527Earl Grey
, although he did not approve of the violation of the general principles of political economy, yet the emergency was so urgent, that he thought the extension of this relief likely to produce very important benefits.The Earl of Harrowby
 adverting to the precedent of 1793, observed, that upon consideration he was inclined to doubt of its wisdom and policy. In 1803, application had been made to him by several merchants who experienced distresses at that period; but he was persuaded it would have been impolitic and ultimately injurious to encourage their application. At the same time, on this occasion, the cases were so different, and the calamity of such a nature, that he could not bring his mind to refuse the relief proposed to be granted. He was not prepared to say the relief would certainly be attended with its desired effect; but it was calculated to do good, and on that account it should not incur his opposition.Viscount Sidmouth,
 moved the second reading of the Commercial Credit Bill. Upon the question that the Bill he committed, the noble earl observed respecting the Bill, that if the commercial embarrassment arose from overstocked markets, the consequence of excessive speculation, then such a measure could not be advisable; because to hold out that a relief from government would be given to commercial men under such circumstances, would be removing the salutary check that ought to exist upon excessive speculation. The commercial embarrassment, however, which at present existed, was not wholly attributable to that cause. It arose from the circumstances, that returns had been made from South America for the goods sent there in produce, to be sent to the Baltic and the European markets, but which, from the circumstances of the continent, could not be sent there, and were warehoused here. From this circumstance, the merchants, and consequently the manufacturers, bad become embarrassed; these goods could not be sold except at a ruinous loss, and in the mean time money was wanted by the merchants to pay the bills which they had accepted. The merchants, therefore, and the manufacturers, required time in order to bring their concerns round again to their natural course, and for this purpose it was that this measure was resorted to.Earl Bathurst
 could not restrain the strength and impulse of his feelings, without expressly declaring his heart-felt satisfaction at the vote proposed to their lordships. He felt proudly gratified in thus contributing his portion of applause to an officer endowed with such military talents, skill and bravery as general Graham. He had the happiness of experiencing the benefit of these qualities on the part of the worthy general, when he had his professional assistance on a former important occasion. He cordially concurred in the sentiment of the noble earl opposite (Grey), that the victory in question was gained under circumstances which rendered it equal in glory to any blazoned in the page of English history. He supposed the noble earl alluded to the glorious victory obtained by one of their immortal sovereigns. The gallant officer in question, had neither the choice of his ground nor of his position, as was the case in the ever-memorable action alluded to. His lordship then referred to some of the prominent circumstances of the action at Barrosa, for the purpose of illustrating the great and unqualified applause which was due to the gallant general who commanded. Every corps of the army, and every individual who composed it, seemed influenced by the spirit and intrepidity of their illustrious leader; his glorious example was every where seen, every where felt! It was unnecessary for the noble earl to draw the most favourable attention of his Majesty's government to the transcendant talents and intrepidity of the gallant officer in question. From his own knowledge of the worthy general, no rewards or honours could be too great for his professional merits. He was happy to see the perfect unanimity that prevailed, but could not give a silent vote on an occasion where he felt so strongly.Lord Mulgrave
 observed, that this victory, which so eminently deserved the thanks of the House, was one of the results of that state of efficiency into which the British army had been brought by the exertions of the illustrious prince who was so long happily at its head.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
538l537536in toto535534533 rose and addressed the House at considerable length upon the policy of this measure. He adverted to the irregularity of discussion which had interfered with the natural course of the debate, for he did not perceive how the calculation of the rate of exchange in Ireland was connected with the merits of the Bill upon their lordship's table. It had been expressed by some noble lords during this night's debate, that no one, whatever variety of opinion might exist upon the policy of this Bill, would be bold enough, to give his opposition to granting this relief to the distresses of our merchants. For himself, he was desirous that he should not be included in that general observation. No love of popularity, no dread of public obloquy, should ever intimidate him in the discharge of his parliamentary duty. During the many years of his public life, he had ever been determined to act on ail occasions as it seemed best to his own judgment, without any regard to the praise or the censure of the world, ever satisfied with the consciousness of having done his duty according to his own notions of rectitude. From these principles, which had at all times actuated his public conduct, he was determined never to depart; and on this occasion he must declare, for one, that he was prepared to give his opposition most decidedly to this Bill. But at the same time, it should be understood, that he was by no means disposed to deny relief to the distresses of the merchants and the manufacturers of this country. No; on the contrary, it was from his wish to afford them relief that he was led to oppose the present measure. The very ground and reason of his opposition was, that instead of this Bill being likely to produce in its effects any relief to the distressed commerce of the country, it was calculated to aggravate all our commercial calamities. Even the very evils
538l537536in toto535534533Lord Grenville
 observed, that what had been enforced by those noble lords who preceded him, left him nothing to add in the expressions of approbation and applause. With the noble earl he agreed in the propriety of avoiding topics which might lead to a difference of sentiment. He could not avoid on such an occasion, referring to those particular circumstances of the action which rendered its result the more brilliant and glorious; and the more so, when the system of policy which tended to induce those disadvantages, was considered. With respect to the two battalions of foreign troops adverted to by the noble earl, as having greatly distinguished themselves, it was a circumstance which afforded him great satisfaction. He had never entertained a doubt that foreign troops of any description whatever, properly disciplined and headed by British officers, would, if time were allowed for the exertion of their skill and diligence, acquit themselves in action in a way very little inferior, if not equal to British troops themselves. This was an opinion which he had given, and acted upon long ago, and he fell additional gratification in the present confirmation of an opinion so long entertained by him, but he had to regret the system was not acted on to a fuller extent. In conclusion, his lordship adverted more particularly to the great professional merits of the gallant general in question, and lamented that the great merits of one who had displayed such extraordinary zeal, during so long an interval, in the service of his country, should not have been long since brought forward in a way commensurate to his deserts; and be afforded fair and adequate opportunities for the display of those talents, skill and intrepidity, which, on the occasion before their lordships, he had so decidedly evinced.Lord Grenville
 gave notice, that he should move a clause on Monday, to prevent the Bank from purchasing the Exchequer Bills issued under this act. His lordship also stated, that he should then prove that he was correct in stating that the Bank of Ireland had diminished its issues after the report in 1804, and which had been positively denied by a noble earl on the former evening.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he had not denied that the Bank of Ireland had diminished its issues at the period alluded to; but what he maintained, and was still prepared to contend, was, that the exchange became more favourable to Ireland previous to any diminution of its issues by the Bank. His lordship then proceeded to notice a statement in the Report of the Bullion Committee, which, he maintained, was founded in error; namely, that the Bank of England had increased its issues between June 1804 and 1806, whereas it was proved by documents, that, during that period, the issues were diminished.The Earl of Ross
 compared the present state of the paper currency with former depreciations, contending that the same cause, namely, an excessive issue of paper, would infallibly produce similar effects to those produced by that means in the reign of William 3; to the depreciation of assignats in France; and to what had been witnessed in every one of our colonies. In consequence of an excessive issue of paper, the coin disappeared, and the paper became depreciated—an evil which was only cured by limiting the quantity of paper.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the very same arguments that were now used, by those who contended that the paper currency was not depreciated, were used in France, to prove that assignats were not depreciated.Lord Holland
l614 observed, that the assignats were issued on the best security in France, namely, the land, and
l614The Earl of Lauderdale
 wished to understand clearly what was meant by this argument, as supposing the issue of Bank notes to be doubled, how would it then apply?The Earl of Rosslyn
 contended that it was merely a collusion for the Bank to issue notes to the bill-holder to pay his bills with.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the argument did not apply to an excessive issue without the means of return, but to the actual issue, as at present, of Bank notes, only upon securities.Lord Redesdale
 admitted the cause of the depreciation of assignats, but contended that the assignats were issued by government for provisions, for the armies, and other articles, without any prospect of their being returned, whilst the notes of the Bank of England were issued on securities in payment of which they must be returned within a short period. The Bank notes were merely similar to assignats before their depreciation.Lord Redesdale
 contended that Bank notes were in a different situation from assignats, being issued on securities which must be paid in a certain and short period, and in payment of which the Bank notes were returned.Lord Redesdale
663 moved to leave out the clause, empowering the Commis-
663The Earl of Lauderdale
 again adverted to the question of the exchange becoming favourable to Ireland, contending that it was not the result of a diminished issue by the bank of Ireland.The Earl of Ross
 denied the necessity of the clause.—The question was put that the clause stand part of the Bill, and agreed to.The Earl of Lauderdale
 then moved to leave out the clause empowering the Commissioners to advance exchequer bills to the incorporated banks of Scotland, upon the ground that there was no necessity for it, the banks not standing in need of any such assistance.The Earl of Lauderdale
 then adverted to the notice he had given on Friday, his object being to leave out the clause empowering the Bank of England to purchase exchequer bills issued under this act, and to substitute another clause prohibiting them from so purchasing them. His lordship observed, that the analysis of the measure with this clause as it now stood, was, that the merchants having a quantity of goods for which there was no market, the Bank could not accommodate them with discount, but by the interference of government, advancing exchequer bills to the merchants, the Bank would take the exchequer bills as a security, and issue their notes for them to the merchants, thus increasing the issue of Bank notes, which was already too great.The Earl of Lauderdale
664 contended, that this would be, by a side wind, destroying the advantages of the Bill, as the exchequer bills, which the Bank were prohibited from purchasing, must necessarily be at a discount, whilst other exchequer bills would be at par. Nor would it prevent the issue of bank notes, as those possessed of the exchequer bills must sell them in the market, and purchase others which the Bank could take, and for which of course bank notes would be issued. There was, besides, a
664Earl Bathurst
 observed, that the clause merely empowered the commissioners to take heritable bonds as an additional security. The same clause was in the Bill of 1793, and no inconvenience resulted from it.Earl Bathurst
 declared himself to the same effect.Lord Holland
 again explained, and said, that surely nothing could be more foreign from his mind than to make any unhandsome allusion to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, for whose estimable qualities, as a man and a judge, he had ever entertained the highest respect.The Lord Chancellor
 doubted whether the noble earl had succeeded in convincing any noble lord in. that House that the letter was a violation of the law. He said the object of the Convention Act was well known. It might be a question, however, whether even at common law such an assembly of delegates would not be illegal. It was the uniform course of parliamentary proceedings for instance, that no petition should be received, except from the individuals, subscribing it, or from corporate bodies; and though sometimes petitions of an opposite description were received, yet it proceeded merely from inadvertency. That principle was recognized on a late occasion, when a Petition from the Livery of London was presented, signed by the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, who not being authorized to represent the Livery, the Petition was refused. On looking to the preamble of the act of the 33d of the king, the object of the act would be found very clearly expressed; and though the noble earl had attempted to draw a distinction between managers and delegates, the name under which these delegates were elected, was of very inconsiderable importance,: if they were delegates in substance. They were guilty of a contravention of the act of parliament in every fair view of that. act. When Circular Letters were sent to the different counties of Ireland, for the purpose of procuring representatives to sit in the Catholic Committee, no man could doubt that this was a contravention of the Convention Act. It had been asked if the Committee was illegal, why was it allowed so long to continue its sittings? He had no doubt that from the moment representatives began to sit in the Committee, it was an illegal meeting, but it might not be expedient to put the law in execution on every violation of it. He saw no ground for the motion of the noble earl.The Earl of Liverpool
breakquiet and inactiveactivityinactivitystirred up697696 wished to recall the attention of the House to the real state of the question. The question at issue was not whether the meeting in Dublin was legal or illegal, or whether the electing of managers was legal or illegal, but whether the mode of proceeding pointed out in the letter of
breakquiet and inactiveactivityinactivitystirred up697696Lord Holland
698 justified the general tenor of the Letter; though he was willing to confess that in some parts of it, the words were somewhat slovenly got together. The Convention Bill, to which such frequent reference had been made, had not in its view the Catholics of Ireland. It had in contemplation the assembling of any description of persons who met together for the purpose of electing others who were to interfere in matters of church and state. It was the nature and intention of such meetings that made them legal or illegal. It mattered not under what denomination they were known; whether delegates, managers, or any other. They would take their character from their mode of proceeding. If the assembly which these delegates or managers proposed to elect was an unlawful assembly, so would the assembly be which should elect them. The elected, or appointed, according to the nature of the object for which they should have been chosen, communicated the legality or illegality of their
698The Lord Chanceller
700 in reply, thanked the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, for the candour and fairness which he had displayed that night. It had saved him from the trimming which he had prepared for him. Had any other lawyer attempted to hold a different language, he should have given that lawyer a complete basting. He rejoiced in having brought forward the present motion. It had drawn from the noble and learned lord many useful confessions; and it had drawn from his two noble and distinguished friends (lords Grenville and Holland) the soundest doctrines, and the most appropriate observations He was therefore, determined to
700Earl Stanhope
695694 rose, in pursuance of notice, to make a motion respecting Mr. Pole's Circular Letter, [See p. 1.] His lordship first moved, that the letter be read, and also the Convention Act of Ireland; which having been read, he said he should reverse the usual practice of the House, by stating his motion first, and giving his reasons afterwards. He stated his motion to be for declaring the letter of Mr. Pole to be a violation of the law, inasmuch as it required the magistrates to do acts not authorised by the law, and wholly inconsistent with a due and proper spirit of conciliation. His lordship observed that the Convention Act was a penal statute, and it was a well known maxim of law, that all penal statutes must be strictly construed. He then read passages of the Convention Act, to shew that it was directed against delegated assemblies, met for the purpose of discussing any alteration in matters established in church or state, and was not intended to operate against meetings for the purpose of petitioning for the redress of grievances. Were persons delegated to present a petion to be considered as delegates within the meaning of the act? If so, three millions of his majesty's subjects would be deprived of the right of petitioning. Were persons appointed to go round to get a petion signed to be considered as delegates or managers within the meaning of the act? Upon these points the law, he contended, was clear, and that such acts would be perfectly legal. The noble earl related an anecdote upon this subject of a Petition from Kent, during the last war, for peace, in which he took an active part, and where by means of Committees in the different divisions of the county, 17,000 signatures were obtained to the petition, which he presented to his Majesty. Had a similar circumstance occurred in Ireland, it would, he contended, have been perfectly legal, and yet Mr. Pole's Letter jumbled together things illegal and legal,
695694Earl Stanhope
 thought that Mr. Pole had been dealt rather harshly by during the course of the debate. He was, however, confident that no measure had been adopted by that gentleman, nor the letter in question written by him, without the advice and approbation of the law officers of Ireland. It was therefore hard to impute to him only, whatever blame might be thought to attach to the letter, though, no doubt, Mr. Pole must take his due share of responsibility for the measure. As to the intention of the Convention Act, he would confidently say, that it was not levelled against the body of the Roman Catholics, but was passed at the close of a session, and chiefly directed against the meetings of the United Irishmen, from which improper proceedings were to be apprehended at that time.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 disclaimed any intention of treating Mr. Pole with harshness or disrespect. There would be an end to all responsibility, and parliament itself would be completely useless, if no responsibility were to attach to a person for any measure which even bore his signature, and thus openly avowed the approbation and sanction of such measure by the person who adopted it.Lord Grenville
699 was willing to acknowledge the candour and the fairness with which the noble and learned lord had spoken of Mr. Secretary Pole's Letter, but he could not concur in the inferences which that noble and learned lord had drawn from the statement laid down by him. He should not now go into any detail of the arguments which might be urged on the present occasion. He would content himself with asking whether, by the mere act of being present at such an assembly, without voting, or otherwise concurring in the business of such a meeting, could subject a person to the penalties of the act? The noble and learned lord would not surely state the affirmative. Yet, by virtue of Mr. Pole's Letter, any man, merely for the crime of simply being present at such an assembly, was liable to be arrested and imprisoned. Their lordships would no doubt feel themselves bound to record on their Journals their marked disapprobation of such an interpretation of the law, and of the dangerous measure which had been grounded on it. He could not help considering such a stretch of power resorted to in Ireland, as a fresh proof of a disposition hostile to every measure and demonstration of conciliation towards that country. When duly considered, how monstrous must it not appear! What, make three millions of our fellow subjects liable to be arrested and imprisoned at the will of a Secretary of the government! How would such a doctrine sound in the ears of Englishmen? How would they relish such a practice? What clamours would be raised in England, if not three million, but three hundred, nay, if thirty persons were to be so arrested, and thrown into prison; such was the difference of opinion between the
699Lord Grenville
713 rose, pursuant to notice, to move the second reading of the Bill for preventing the granting of Places in Reversion. He felt that the present moment was not the most auspicious for carrying that salutary measure into effect; but he was not therefore discouraged from; endeavouring to do his duty, and to redeem the pledge which he had given to that effect. There were, besides, many circumstances connected with the present measure, which he could have wished to bring under their lordships consideration at the same time; but neither was the present the moment for entering into that discussion. He should, however, persevere in the line he had chalked out to himself, and persist in moving the second reading of the Bill, let the result be what it might. He knew that it was the intention of the noble and learned lord on the woolsack to oppose his motion, but he trusted that noble and learned lord would not forget that in proposing the suspension of the same bill last session, he had in a great degree acknowledged the justice of its principle. Their lordships well knew that the measure which he had the honour
713Earl Grosvenor
 never had said, and never would say that the principle of the Bill was not a good one, and fit to be acted upon; but he objected to it as attempting at the time to carry only one part, and that comparatively but a less important and less urgent part, of a great measure with which the present was but slightly connected. If the power of granting places in reversion were taken from the crown, he was at a loss to see why places in possession might not be taken away also. This power had boon vested in the crown for three, four or five centuries; and had often been exercised for the best of purposes: he was not, therefore, for withdrawing it from the crown, without being sure that such a defalcation from the power of the crown would lead to some general measure of great public utility. Besides, in consequence of the provisions which Parliament had thought proper to introduce into the Regency bill, the power of granting places in reversion was now in abeyance. To agitate the question, therefore, under the present circumstances, would not, in his opinion, lead to any practical good.The Lord Chancellor
 briefly replied; and the question being put, That the bill be read a second time, it was negatived without a division.Earl Grosvenor
 then moved, That the Bill be rejected.The Earl of Liverpool
714 thought it was going too far to reject the bill, as that implied an hostility to its principle. To this he could not consent, but under the circumstances of
714Earl Gray
 could not but think, that in consequence of the restrictions now imposed upon that power, in, the hands of the Prince Regent, the bill should for the present be rejected. He had no objection, however, to accede to the opinion of the noble earl.The Earl of Liverpool
 presented a Message from his royal highness the Prince Regent, representing the distresses which in a part of the inhabitants of Portugal were plunged by the savage barbarities exercised against them by the French army in its retreat, and expressing a desire than heir lordships' House would concur in enabling him to afford the sufferers speedy and effectual relief.—[For the Message see the proceedings of the House of Commons.] The marquis then moved, that his royal highness's Message be taken into consideration to-morrow, and that the lords be summoned.—Ordered.Marquis Wellesley
 rose and asked, whether it was the intention of ministers to lay before the House a copy of the Report of her Majesty's council, respecting the state of the King's health?Earl Grosvenor
 observed, that the Report alluded to by the noble earl was to be found in the records of the Privy Council, and that if the noble earl was desirous to have it before the House, it was competent for him, or any noble lord, to move for its production.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he should make a motion to that effect to-morrow.The Earl of Grosvenor
736 briefly observed upon the nature of the Bill, the object of which was to derive a constant supply from the Militia for the regular army, without interfering with the ordinary recruiting service. The proportion of the Militia to be allowed annually to enlist amounted to about one-eighth, but it was by no means imperative on the government to take the whole amount of this proportion, but, in the exercise of a sound discretion, only such a part of it as might be necessary in aid of the ordinary recruiting to supply the waste in the army. The militia was to be reduced to its old number, to keep up which, enlistment was to be resorted to, including a proportion of boys from 14 to 17. He was anxious that the ballot should not be struck out of the statute-book, but at the same time it was
736The Earl of Liverpool
l agreed in the propriety of the regulation as to the families of enlisted men and substitutes, but wholly differed as to the expediency of the mode proposed by the Bill of supplying the wastes in the army. His lordship entered, into a variety of details, for the purpose of shewing that the Bill, even in the view of those who proposed it, could not answer its intended purpose. The waste in the army, during the years 1808, 9, and 10, had been at the rate of 21,000 men each year, the utmost number to be produced by this Bill, and by the intended bill of a similar nature for Ireland, was 10,000 men, whilst the ordinary recruiting, it appeared by the returns of last year, did not produce more than 9,000 men. Thus, then, the whole number to be produced was 19,000, and the waste was 21,000; so that there would be an annual deficiency of 2,000 men. The operation of the Bill, likewise, would materially interfere with the ordinary recruiting. The average sum given for a substitute in the Militia was 50lThe Earl of Rosslyn
 could not but regret to see the Militia so broken in upon as it must be by the present Bill; but his chief objection was to the clause which went to convert it from a temporary into a permanent measure. The noble, lord took occasion, highly to extol Mr. Windham's plan which had exceeded in its operation the sanguine expectation of his friends: but the present measure would totally destroy all the benefits which that Salutary plan was calculated to produce, By making it perpetual, instead of temporary, it was proceeding upon principles diametrically opposite to those which he had ever maintained respecting matters of that nature; and so far, therefore, it must have his most decided negative.Lord Holland
 defended the Bill, and observed, that the ballot was not to operate till the year 1813, and that, therefore, the competition in the market between the bounty substitutes, and the bounty in ordinary recruiting, could, in the mean time, exist.The Earl of Westmoreland
 took that opportunity of stating, that the average waste of the army in time of peace was between 12,000 and 13,000, inclusive of the foreign service. The average waste during times of active warfare was 23,000, so that the 10,000 men which was to be supplied from the militias of England, Scotland, and Ireland, would cover the difference of the waste of the army in time of peace and war.Viscount Sidmouth
 acknowledged he only gave his support to the present measure upon a belief of its indispensible necessity. All were agreed as to the necessity of keeping up our army, and he saw no other effective means of doing so except by the present measure. He agreed in the wisdom of Mr. Windham plan; but denied that it had produced the
Viscount Sidmouth
737 observed, with
737The Earl of Hardwicke
746 strongly objected to the principle of the ballot, which on being resorted to under this Bill in the year 1813, would fall on a population diminished by there being taken from it 240,000 volunteers and local militia then in service, and the same number whose term of service would then have expired; it would thus operate with increased pressure upon a population diminished by 480,000, and would become a grievous burden upon this remaining circumscribed portion of the people. He objected to this the more strongly, because the object of the measure was to supply the regular army, and he thought it unjust, that particular individuals should be heavily taxed for this purpose, instead of the funds for it being supplied by the state. He regretted that Mr. Windham's plan, productive in men as it proved to be in the first and only year of its operation should not have been
746The Marquis of Lansdowne
 contended, with reference to Mr. Windham's plan, that there was no experience of its success, as the number of men produced in the year referred to, was to be attributed to the measure for filling up the second battalions alluded to last night by his noble friend (viscount Sidmouth). With respect to the Bill, he contended, that it was not the fair way of putting the argument that the ballot was to be resorted to for the purpose of supplying the regular army, it being only to operate for the purpose of supplying men for home defence, in the room of those who had voluntarily entered the regular army.The Earl of Liverpool
 contended, that the success of Mr. Windham's plan was progressive, it having produced in the first quarter at the rate of 10,000 men per annum; on the second quarter at the rate of 13,000; the third, at the rate of 21,600, and the fourth, at the rate of 24,000.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 was of opinion, that if Mr. Windham's plan had been persevered in, it would have prevented the necessity of having recourse to measures like the present.Earl Grosvenor
 moved to insert words for the purpose of suspending the operation of the ballot, after the passing of the Act, observing, that the ballot was now going on to complete the militia to 92,000 men, its present number being 84,000, which were negatived.The Marquis of Lansdowne
l747 rose, he said, for the purpose of moving an humble address to his royal highness the Prince Regent, in answer to his most gracious communication made yesterday to their lordships, concerning the propriety of affording aid to the people of Portugal. The noble marquis called to the consideration of the House the effects that had been produced in Portugal by the spirit of the people and the troops that had been raised and taken into British pay. A sentiment had been there by created of admiration of the magnanimity, the perseverance, the zealous and ardent constancy, which the exertions of our ancient and faithful ally had, with British assistance, so strikingly manifested. He called to mind the great and costly sacrifices they had made: first in the preparations for an effectual resistance to their invaders; and secondly, in bearing up with fortitude against what had since taken place, and, in the endurance of their spirit under the wanton cruelty and savage barbarity which had been exercised upon them in the retreat of the French army. He did not think it necessary to urge this subject by entering into details of what had been inflicted and what endured. What he was about to propose was justifiable, not only on motives of generosity to a people in alliance with us, but was due on the sound policy upon which he conceived every one must see that the proposition stood. But he should take the liberty of making a few observations on its general principles. There could scarely exist a doubt, that in such a contest as that in which this nation was now engaged, a fair and full view of its circumstances would justify us in raising a resistance in any part of the continent of Europe against the enemy, when there appeared any prospect of such resistance being efficacious and successful. But there had been much doubt, and experience had-confirmed the opinion, that whatever general principles of policy might justify we ought to know the sentiment of the nation which we were about to assist and encourage: we ought to know that she felt as sincerely and deeply as ourselves-the nature of her situation; and that she felt that spirit and energy to resist her oppressor which could alone lead to a steady, regular, determined opposition, which could only be expected to be successful
l747Marquis Wellesley
748 felt considerable difficulty in acceding to this motion, particularly when he considered how much had been done already for Portugal. Lately two millions of money had been granted to that country; and the reason then assigning for proposing it was, that the French were in possession of great part of Portugal, and therefore the revenues could not be received from the distant provinces of the country. Now the same reason did not hold, for the French were in possession of only a small part of Portugal; and he
748Earl Grosvenor
, in consequence of what had fallen from his noble friend (earl Grosvenor) felt himself called upon to state shortly his reasons for voting for the present motion; agreeing in the justice of the remarks made by his noble friend, he still could not consider them as a ground for resisting the motion. As applied to economy in our expeditions, and the taking care that more expence was not incurred than was commensurate with the object to be attained, he perfectly concurred; but whatever might have been his opinion regarding the policy of our military exertions in Portugal, no doubt now existed in his mind, that the efforts made by the people of Portugal eminently deserved at our hands the aid now asked, to relieve that distress into which they had been plunged by the barbarity of the enemy. Of that state of distress there could be no doubt; it was confirmed by all the accounts received from Portugal, which stated the privations endured by the inhabitants to be extreme. Whatever, therefore, might have been his opinion of any part of our policy in Portugal, or even, if he believed that lord Wellington would be again compelled to retreat, still he would vote for the present motion, convinced that by affording this timely assistance to the distressed inhabitants of Portugal, we should manifest a conduct so oppositely contrasted with that of the enemy that it could not fail to make an impression in Europe highly favourable to the British character, and tend to place that contrasted conduct in the strongest point of view. In Portugal itself it could not fail eminently to raise the British character in the estimation of the people. In thus raising the estimation of the British character in
The Marquis of Lansdowne
 observed, that his recollection did not furnish him with the reason assigned by the noble lord for the former grant, namely, that a large-proportion of Portugal was in the hands of the enemy. That was a grant founded on reasons of its own, and furnished no argument whatever against the present. It should be recollected, that the war in Portugal was not an ordinary war, nor conducted by the French on the principles usual in former times, when, though a hostile army traversed a country, yet still something was left for the subsistence of the inhabitants; but Europe had never witnessed such barbarities as had been perpetrated by the French; and the country through which they passed had been plundered and exhausted to such a degree, that British humanity alone could afford it the common and necessary means of existence; and if the aid was not speedily granted, it might come too late to effect his object. Highly as he thought of the talents of the British officers who were at the head of the allied army, he did not believe that even their talents would have produced their effect without the exertions of the Portuguese population. The pea-
The Earl of Harrowby
 moved to leave out the clause imposing penalties in the parishes for not raising the men within the time allotted. The motion was opposed by the earl of Liverpool, and the House divided on the question that the clause stand part of the Bill.The Earl of Hardwicke
 begged leave to observe that his Majesty's government were as fully aware as his noble friend or any other individual peer could be, of the great national importance of the subject adverted to. It therefore had engrossed a due share of their attention; and, as might be supposed, representations had been made, and communications had taken place between his Majesty's government and that of Spain, on the topic alluded to. They were fully aware of the advantages in a belligerent point of view, which would arise from the introduction of the principle and system, into the armies of Spain, which by their efforts had been so successfully introduced into the armies of Portugal. But his noble friend and the House would be aware, that the relations between this country and Spain were by no means of that favourable nature, for such an object, as they were with Portugal. The long, close, and ancient alliance, which subsisted between the two govern-
The Earl of Liverpool
 under the assurance his noble friend had given, should decline pressing his motionLord Boringdon,
 called the attention of their lordships to a subject which he deemed of considerable national importance. In the course of the discussion which took place on the occasion of the Thanks of the House being moved to general Graham, it appeared, that that part of the events of the memorable day on which the action was fought,
Lord Boringdon
766765764763 rose, and addressed their lordships upon the motion, of which he had on a former day given notice for a Vole of their lordships Thanks to lord viscount Wellington, and the brave army under his command, for their signal and meritorious services during the recent operations in Portugal. When he contemplated all the circumstances of the campaign, the wisdom of the original plan of operations, the cool and steady discretion with which it was prudently carried into execution in all its parts, and the final and happy result of the whole in the deliverance of Portugal, from the presence and oppression of the French army, he could not anticipate the possibility of a dissentient voice to the motion with which he meant to conclude. He would appeal to their lordships recollection as to the impressions of doubt, little short of despair, which pervaded many even of their lordships, when, with the vast accumulation of force which had been placed at his disposal, Massena first collected his formidable army on the frontiers of Portugal, and he would then ask them to contrast the despondence of that period with the well grounded confidence excited by the general result of the operations of the campaign, in order to form an adequate judgment of the transcendent merit of the illustrious general and of the eminent services of his gallant army. The ability which had been so conspicuously displayed by lord Wellington throughout every part of his career in the peninsular campaigns, had fully convinced the French government, that to succeed against such a commander required more than ordinary talents in the general opposed to him. Massena was therefore selected: Massena, the most fortunate of all the French generals, to repair the losses sustained by so many other French marshals, and an army was placed at his disposal, the largest that the means of France could collect; but as it was presumptuously anticipated fully competent to the complete reduction of the kingdom of Portugal by the speedy and effectual expulsion of the British army
766765764763The Earl of Liverpool
768767 rose, and said, that the motion of the noble lord had his most entire and full assent; and though the noble lord, in the course of his speech, had omitted nothing that could illustrate the nature and extent of the services that had been performed, yet he could not sit silent on the occasion, impressed as he was with feelings of gratitude and admiration towards that great commander who was the subject of this vote, and deriving a just national pride from the consideration, that the honour of the country had been so greatly exalted by the conduct of that distinguished general and his brave army. There were also additional motives of imperative force and of a nature personal to himself, which induced him to feel anxious to follow the noble earl and to second the present motion. In proportion to the pain which he felt in withholding his assent to the vote of thanks on a former occasion, was the pleasure which he now experienced in contributing his mite of approbation for services, as to the merits
768767Earl Grey
 said a few words on the question.Lord Suffolk
781, in pursuance of the notice he had given previous to the recess, rose to acquaint, the House, that it was
781Viscount Sidmouth
791ss790 apologized for his preceding the noble earl (Bathurst) in offering a few observations to their lordships. But his age was such that he felt himself inadequate to take any part in discussion towards the close of a lengthened debate, and therefore he was induced to make a few remarks at this early period of the evening. Their lordships would perhaps allow he was entitled to considerable knowledge respecting the question under their consideration. The knowledge he possessed was founded upon careful investigation, and upon the experience of many years. It would be in the recollection of many who heard him, that the early period of his life was devoted to the duties of a military profession and the service of his country. Having resigned the command of his brigade to that excellent officer general O'Hara, he returned home and took possession of those estates which, with his title, descended to his inheritance. The persons whose principles had ever been consonant to his own were then in administration, but they remained in only a very short period, and upon the change
791ss790The Earl of Suffolk
maximummaximum792dsssdss rose for the purpose of stating to the House, the principle and nature of the measure now under their lordships' consideration. He would as briefly as possible detail the regulations which guided the principle of this Bill, which were a relative proportion to the price of sugar and the price of corn It was not fit, heir lordships would perceive, that the price upon which the computation was founded should be too high, nor on the other hand should it he at too low a rate. The relative proportion was therefore taken, with respect to barley, at 38maximummaximum792dsssdssEarl Buthurst
793 deprecated the Bill as tending materially to injure the agricultural interests of the country, and by taking away a part of the market to reduce the demand for, and consequently the growth of barley, which on many lands was an intermediate step to the cultivation of wheat, and thus reducing our supply of food at a time when we had only a precarisous dependence for a supply from the continent. No reason had been stated for the measure; there was not' at present any
793The Earl of Aberdeen
l entered at some length: into detail, for the purpose of shewing the fallacy of the calculations stated by earl Bathurst, particularly with respect to Scotland, where grain would be completely, driven out of the distillery market from any competition with sugar. He contended that the Bill was founded upon a most erroneous and improvident policy, and that the only effect of it would be to cause a reduction in the revenue to the amount of 690,000lThe Earl of Rosslyn
 was of opinion, that no injury would arise to the agricultural interests of the country from the present measure. It was proved by the increase of the price of barley, and the increased importation of that article during former prohibitions of the use of that article in the distilleries, that no injury was done by them to the agricultural, and he was therefore disposed to support the present Bill, conceiving that it would not injure the farmer at home, and that it would benefit our colonies.The Earl of Darnley
 defended the Bill, and contended that the sugar grower in our colonies was entitled to all the assistance we could render him, and that the barley grower here would not be in the least injured by the effect of the Bill.The Earl of Westmoreland
ss794 urged, that the object of the Bill was simply this, not that the West-India colonist should be let into competition with the grower of barley, but that when barley had reached a price to let in the foreign farmer, that then the West India colonist should be let into the market for the distilleries instead of the farmers of France; and surely when the enormous sum we had paid in during the last year to our enemies for our corn, was for a moment considered, it must be deemed an object of sound policy, to give that advantage
ss794Lord Holland
sss contended that this argument was founded in a fallacy; that the fact was, that it would not pay the foreign farmer to import barley here at 33sssThe Earl of Lauderdale
 admitted, that if the contest was between the interests of the West India Colonists and the Agricultural interests of the country, that the former must give way; but here there was no such question, all that was asked was, to let in the West India Colonist in competition with the foreign farmer, the interests of our own farmer being completely pro vided for. It was shewn that neither the growth of barley nor the quantity of malt had been diminished by former prohibitions, but on the contrary, that they had increased; and therefore, there was no ground for supposing that the present measure would have the least effect in diminishing the growth of barley.The Earl of Liverpool
 urged the importance of the cultivation of barley, as an intervening step, on a great portion of land, to the cultivation of wheat, and that therefore it was most essential to the interests of the country, that the market for barley should not be lessened by taking from it the demand for the distilleries His lordship moved that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.The Earl of Hardwicke
 urged, that from the nature of the provisions of the Bill, a bounty was in fact given on the use of sugar in the distilleries to the exclusion of our own bailey, and to the vital injury of the real interests of the country, by lessening the demand, and consequently diminishing the supply of food at a time when it was more than ever necessary to increase our internal resources. He could not conceive any thing more injurious than this intermeddling species of policy, interfering with and diverting the regular course of nature, and affecting to regulate by an imaginary rule the prices of articles which ought to be left to find their own level.Lord Grenville
1133 said, he would not act so irregularly as to oppose the first reading of a Bill, but he thought it right, in candour, to state, that he could not agree with the noble viscount in the object proposed. The noble viscount founded his measure upon an opinion, that it was only by the permission of government that persons were entitled to preach those religious doctrines which they held. Now, he on the contrary, was of opinion, that every person had a right to preach those religious opinions which he conscientiously believed. He regretted that the noble viscount had spoken invidiously of persons in inferior situations of life becoming preachers, for surely they were fully as entitled to preach those religious opinions which they conscientiously believed, as those who received the advantages of the rich endowments of the church, He regretted also, that his noble friend should have at all touched upon the subject, as in his opinion it could only tend to excite dissentions. No case had been made out which called for the interference of Parliament. The exemptions from civil duties, of which the noble viscount complained, could only apply to a few persons, and it was better that those few persons should have their exemptions, than
1133Lord Holland
 in explanation, disclaimed the slightest intention of speaking in the least invidiously of the persons whom he had alluded to, on account of their inferior station in life. As to the Toleration Act, it was no part of his object at all to alter it; his only purpose was to have it ascertained with certainty what the law was. On the subject of Churches, he thought a Bill ought to be passed, enacting, that in every new church or chapel a certain portion of the area should be set apart for the admission of the people, without any charge.Lord Viscount Sidmouth,
 thought it would be better for the noble viscount to begin by some measure for building places of worship to accommodate those members of the Established Church who were now, as stated, for want of that accommodation, obliged to go to meeting-houses, before he tried his hands with the dissenters.Earl Stanhope
1132113111301129 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given on a former day, to propose to their lordships
1132113111301129Viscount Sidmouth
1170 said, he rose for the purpose of opposing this motion, because he was satisfied the Bill was composed of such mischievous and dangerous matter as would destroy the commercial credit of the country. To the common retail dealers in trade this Bill would be absolute destruction. The creditor was entirely neglected in its provisions, and he was sure that House ought, in all its legislative acts, particularly to attend to the honest and injured creditor. If this measure passed into a law, a debtor, whatever might be his conduct, provided it were not an offence coming under the description of obtaining goods by false pretences, which was made, in some instances, a transportable offence, would have the power of claiming the benefit of it, whereby he could remain no longer in prison than six months. Was it reasonable that debts generally contracted otherwise than criminally, should be subjected to so small a degree of punishment? in addressing himself to their lordships as landholders, he would put the case—suppose they had a tenant under a lease, and he were to injure the premises, hew down and destroy a family mansion, plough up an ancient pasture, and
1170Lord Ellanborough
11721171 declared, such was his respect for the opinion of his noble and learned friend, that he never rose in that House to state his sentiments in opposition to such an opinion, but he felt that diffidence which made him distrust his own judgment. But on a question of this nature he had gained such experience from turning his attention to it during a succession of years, that he felt himself confident of having some clear knowledge on the subject. Could their lordships say that there were not evils of great magnitude, which this Bill went to remove? No man would pretend to state, that the noble and learned lord who introduced the measure did not mean to have it understood, this was a measure which might not require future amendment? The Bill was not that which accorded with his own notions of what it ought to be, but that would not prevent him from giving it his firm support, for he was persuaded some measure of this description was absolutely due to the justice of our laws, and was confidently expected by the people of this country. All provisions of a legislative nature, when first made, to remove abuses or evils, were experiments, because at the time of framing a law it was impossible for human foresight to calculate all its consequences, or to anticipate all its collateral bearings. But after their entry on their journals of the evils, the abominable and oppressive grievances, which had arisen out of the present practice, that House was pledged to introduce this, or a similar measure, for the purpose of removing such evils; and if they should abandon every mode of putting an end to so much cruel oppression, their characters would' be covered with indelible disgrace in the eyes of the country. The present system or practice, he contended, was a mass of rubbish and of oppression, that, ought to be entirely removed; the soil ought to be removed from under it, before, any super-
11721171The Earl of Moira
 did not intend to support the motion, as he thought it was understood the Bill should pass the Committee, and the objection to its principle might be taken in a further stage. But, indeed, there were so many objectionable parts in the Bill, and he perceived so much difficulty in amending them, that although he was not averse to its principle, yet he was afraid when it should have gone through the Committee, and should have been re-committed again, it would not be that Bill which would permit him to give it his support, in order that it might pass into a law. The machinery was such as, in his opinion, could never operate; and if it could, as it now stood, it was not likely to give relief, without also doing injury. But he would recommend to his noble and learned friend to withdraw his motion, and having made his protest against the principle, he might oppose it in a future stage.The Lord Chancellor
 suggested the propriety of avoiding debate, and for the present to let the Bill proceed through the Committee.The Earl of Moira
 intimated the difficulty of the present Bill passing into a law and as there was an expectation justly entertained by debtors, he recommended the propriety of introducing a common Insolvent Debtors' Bill.Lord Grantley
 observed, he should not divide the House, because it would inform the public of their empty benches. Indeed, the House was so thin that he should not press his Amendment; but there was great defect in the machinery of this Bill, and the expenses were so great that it appeared to him like an oyster when it was opened; for the lawyer would eat the inside himself, and one of the shells would be left for the debtor and the other for the creditor. The noble earl, after suggesting some other defects, said, he should leave the Bill in the hands of the noble and learned lord, who might cook it as he pleased, but if he did not admit some alterations, it would not be cooked at all to his taste.Earl Stanhope
 said there was one defect—it did not punish the parsons—the parsons would by this Bill be freed from the confinement imposed upon others.Earl Stanhope
 said, he did not approve of the present Bill, though he approved of the principle en which it was founded. The noble earl then suggested several amendments to the Bill, particularly one altering the time of confinement.Earl Stanhope
1173 was convinced of the purity and justice of the noble earl's disposition, which had led him so often to bring this matter before the House. He meant no sort of incivility to that noble earl, for whom he had so much respect, and he might say friendship; but he must repeat, that all his experience and observation convinced him of the impropriety of passing such a Bill. The clause by which six months' imprisonment might free the debtor from his obligations was particularly obnoxious. He, therefore, using a common phrase, would only say, that he had nothing farther to add; but that he now wished to wash his hands of the business. His own time and attention I would, perhaps, be better directed to the
1173Lord Ellenborough
 opposed this Amendment, as being contrary to the general intention of the measure.Lord Redesdale
 said, it would depend how the House disposed of the present Bill; but he could assure the noble lord, there was not that difficulty of execution apprehended; and it would operate as a Bill of Insolvency, for most of its provisions were exactly similar to those of the last Insolvent Debtors' Bill.Lord Redesdale
 suggested that the Berkeley peerage stood again for Tuesday, and that they might probably sit late in the committee of privileges.The Earl of Rosslyn
 approved of the principle of the Bill, and thought it would tend to strengthen the established church, and make religion in general more respectable and respected.Earl Grosvenor
197 also requested that the second reading might be postponed, both for the reason suggested by his noble friend, and also to give time to those numerous and respectable classes of men, who conceived themselves affected by the provisions of the Bill, to petition the House. It was highly important that the Bill should receive the fullest discussion and examination not only with regard to its own provisions, but in the view that it might lead to future violations of the Toleration Act. He regretted that his noble friend should
197Earl Grey
 urged the impropriety of suffering a Bill of such importance to pass through its principal stage, after so short an interval, in so thin a House, and after the remaining peers had been so long engaged in closely attending to another business. He thought it would be proper to allow a considerable interval before the second reading, in order that the measure might be more generally considered throughout the country, and to afford those to be affected by it an opportunity of laying their sentiments before parliament on the subject.Earl Stanhope
 moved the second reading of this Bill. [For a copy of the Bill, see vol. 19, p. 1133.]Viscount Sidmouth
 called to the recollection of the noble lords, that it was generally understood the Bill should be read a second time this day, but that the debate on the principle of the measure was not to take place before Tuesday; and on this understanding many noble peers had absented themselves, who would otherwise have attended. Neither would the discussion of a measure of so much importance be proper in so thin an attendance as that at the present time. With respect to what was said of the sentiments of those likely to be affected by the Bill, he had conversed with several, who approved of the measure. Neither were there any who could justly complain of its being unexpected; as, it was well known that for two successive sessions he had expressly given notice of his intention to propose such a measure. However, he did not wish to press the order at present, and therefore would move that instead of now, the Bill be read a second time on Tuesday next.Viscount Sidmouth
198 observed, that the Bill certainly seemed to agitate greatly the public mind; yet a measure formed upon similar principles and proposed by himself some years since in another place, seemed to meet with general approbation.
198Lord Redesdale
 observed, that however important the Berkeley peerage case might be to an individual, the Bill of his noble friend was of much greater general importance.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
234 said he had not the slightest intention of opposing the motion. His object in rising was, that, if possible, the time of the House might be saved. He was perfectly convinced that his noble friend had been actuated by the purest and best motives in bringing forward the Bill which was now before the House, and he was satisfied that the object of the Bill had been by many persons much misconceived and mistaken. It was, however, a consideration of great importance, whether the object sought to be attained was equivalent to the inconvenience arising from the agitation and alarm that had prevailed since the measure had been before the House. If there was any one subject more than another in which he thought it impolitic for the legislature to interfere without a real and absolute necessity, it was on religious subjects. However laudable the object of his noble friend might be, still it ought to be considered that the good to be attained by the change proposed was trifling, and that the inconvenience sustained in consequence of the agitation and alarm that prevailed, was very great. Under these
234The Earl of Liverpool
235 rose and said, that he had numerous petitions to present to the House against the present Bill, the first of which he should move to be read. It was the joint petition of the three denominations of the dissenters in and in the vicinity of the metropolis, namely, the Presbyterian, the Baptist, and the Independent. He should say little by way of preface, except that he believed that that, as well as other petitions, would shew, that the people of this country were not so ignorant of the nature and character of a Bill brought into parliament, as not to see and to appreciate its consequences on their civil-or their religious liberty. He was happy to
235Lord Holland
 said, it was desirable to know, whether any of those petitions contained matter which reflected upon, or was irregular to be presented to that House.The Earl of Morton
 said, that he had been unable to read them all. Several he had read, which contained no such matter. But he should feel pleasure in having them all read to the House, if it should not be too inconvenient in respect of lime.Lord Holland
 said, that he also had many petitions to present. Such was, however, the opinion he entertained of the respectability of character of the persons who had framed them, that if there was any intention shewn of casting doubts or reflections on them, he should certainly move, that any one of those which he should present should be read.The Earl of Lauderdale
236 rose, and after some observations on the respectability of the petitioners, declared his readiness to take his responsibility for the propriety of the sentiments they contained. His lordship then presented a great number of Petitions from different places in London, Westminster, Surrey, Middlesex, Kent, Cam-
236The Earl of Moira
 then rose, and presented numerous Petitions from Bath, the Isle of Wight, Kent, and various other places, with signatures to the amount of more than ten thousand names, all which were taken as read, and ordered to lie on the table.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that persons not dissenters, but friends to the principle of toleration, had signed the petition.The Duke of Norfolk
 presented several similar petitions from different places.The Earl of Rosslyn
237 then stated, that he had above one hundred different petitions to present to their lordships on the same subject, and of the same tenor. The first petition he presented, his lordship stated, was signed by many persons not Protestant dissenters; several of them beneficed clergymen of the Established Church, who equally with the Protestant dissenters deprecated any interference with the Toleration laws, and was signed by 896 persons. All these petitions were also received, and ordered to lie on the table.237The Marquis of Lansdowne
 felt convinced, that no man was more averse to breaking in upon the great principles of the Toleration Act, than his noble friend who pro-, posed the Bill. The different modes of interpreting that act, were, however, facts incapable of contradiction; and if a man was refused a licence in one county, it was much more easy for him to go to another where he might obtain it, than apply for a mandamus to the court of King's bench, which was necessarily accompanied with considerable expence. He also knew, that the late act explained the exemptions as to the Militia: but there were great doubts as to who were entitled to such exemptions. To shew the laxity of interpretation which prevailed at one time, he could recollect that in hi" younger years, and when he was liable to be drawn for the militia, it was proposed to him to get himself exempted by paying sixpence for a licence. He knew the law was so understood at that time; erroneously unquestionably. He had known of some instances that occurred among those persons who came to take the qualifications of the most total ignorance. There were some who could neither read nor write, and who absolutely, when the name of another was written down, carried it away as their own. He believed the Bill to be well intended, and capable of doing good, but under the present circumstances he thought that to press it on the House would not be advisable.The Lord Chancellor
250249248247 said he would not have spoken, had it not been for some topics that had been urged in the course of the present discussion. The noble viscount had stated, that a misconception had gone forth with respect to this Bill, and that expectations had been held out to him by certain persons, calling themselves Dis-
250249248247Lord Holland
 explained, by declaring it to be his opinion, that though every one of the numerous subscriber" to the petitions on the table might not be fully acquainted with every minute bearing of the measure against which the petitions were presented, yet, there was not one of them who was not aware of the general tendency of the measure, and that it was injuriously calculated to restrain them in the exercise of their religious doctrines. As to the statement attributed to him by his noble friend who spoke last, that in his opinion, every person who chose it, ought to be allowed to preach in the mode he thought best, he had not gone exactly that length, He had said, and he still maintained, that the cause of religion would be promoted by allowing all those who thought that they had a call to preach the gospel, to do so to those who liked their doctrine, without disability or restraint of any kind.Lord Holland
243 said, after the Bill had received the sanction of the leaders of the different sects, as stated by the noble viscount who brought it in, it was with extreme surprize that he saw the flood of petitions against it, which had that night been poured into their lordships' House. With respect to the difference of opinions on religious subjects in the Christian Church, he observed, that the basis of that religion was the Bible; and he held those to be the most orthodox Christians, who adhered the most strictly to the doctrines laid down in that sacred volume. To explain it was the duty of all mankind, and its interpretation was confined to no particular sect. To use coercion in compelling uniformity, was not only impolitic, but while man was constituted as man, it would be impracticable. The very basis of toleration depended on abstaining from the attempt. That basis would never be infringed by the Church of England, if that Church endured in its existing form. But were it overturned, history afforded them many melancholy examples of the direction which religious toleration might take. This was all he should suggest to their lordships on co delicate a point of his subject. As for the Bill under their view,
243The Archbishop of Canterbury
255254 said, that nothing he had heard in support of this Bill had at all shaken his opinion as to its impropriety. He could truly state, that after listening to the various arguments both for and against the measure, he was more and more convinced that it would be a gross infringement upon religious toleration. He was an enemy to the principle of this Bill, which, if carried into execution, would have the effect of increasing that evil, which it professedly was intended to remedy. Civil and religious liberty guaranteed the subject in the performance of those acts, which were not hurtful or disadvantageous to the state. But he would draw this line of distinction between them—that, when an alteration was about to be made in the latter, the proofs and facts which rendered it necessary, should be stated, if possible, more distinctly and clearly, than if the alteration referred to the former. His reason for this was, that where an interference was attempted in matters of religion, a system of persecution might be introduced. The noble viscount had stated that, under the present system the evils and inconveniences were very great: but he would be glad to learn what were those evils? He supposed they must be either both or one of these; namely, persons procuring certain immunities, under pretence of teaching the word of God, which they were incapable of doing, or the persons themselves suffering great inconveniencies from the uncertainty of the law. With respect to the first of these points, he must observe, that there was no opportunity of procuring exemptions improperly; as by the 42d of his Majesty, no person was entitled to them, unless he was the minister of a separate congregation. Nor was that alone sufficient. The party applying was restricted from following any trade, that of a school-master excepted. These regulations were most minutely adhered to, both in the general and local militia; and much as he objected to the Bill, he would be content to withdraw his objections, if the noble viscount could shew him a single instance, since the Act of 1802, where exemption had been obtained improperly by a dissenter. He did not believe the slightest necessity existed for enacting any declaratory law on the subject. They had been told that the persons applying for licences had increased; and he believed they had. But he would ask, did that increase during the last few years render it necessary to introduce the
255254Earl Grey
 then presented many other petitions from Lewes, Portsmouth, Daventry, Colnbrook, Gloucester, and other places, which were also ordered to lie on the table.Earl Grey
 spoke to order, observing that no one could be more clearly convinced than himself, however he might differ with him in opinion upon this subject, of the purity of the motives by which his noble friend had been actuated. It was however irregular for his noble friend to enter into a discussion of the Bill at the present moment, when there were numerous Petitions against it to be presented, the regular course being to hear them first.Earl Grey
 presented a petition from a congregation at Bristol, which we understood his lordship to say, was intended to have been presented by the high steward of that city (lord Grenville). His noble friend could not attend in the House that night, but he was confident from what he knew of his opinions respecting the important subject of toleration, that he was favourable to the prayer of the petition. Ordered to lie on the table.Earl Grey
251 said, he never felt more pleasure in his whole parliamentary life than he had done on this very day; and if any one asked him the reason, he would tell him, it was at the immense heap of petitions that was then strewed upon their floor, and piled upon their table, and all against this wretched Bill. He liked this, because a kind of silly talk had been going abroad, that there was no public. He had always thought otherwise. And he saw to day that there was a public, and a public opinion, and a public spirit. He saw it in the multitude of petitions sent up on so short a notice; and he was rejoiced to find that public alive, active, and energetic. He would not talk of the Bill; that was dead and gone; and it would be beneath a man of sense to quarrel with the carcase. The Bill was declaratory as well as active, and it was illegal as well as either. He defied all the lawyers in and out of the House to prove that this wretched and unfortunate Bill was not illegal. He would not condescend to argue every point of it. It was unnecessary to argue upon what was beyond human help. It was all over with the Bill; its hour was come; the Bill was dead and gone; but he must, however, say something on the subject. He hated the name of the Toleration act. He hated the word toleration. It was a beggarly, narrow, worthless word: it did not go far enough. He hated toleration, because be loved liberty.
251Earl Stanhope
 presented several other petitions, from different dissenting congregations in various parts of England, which were severally ordered to lie on the table.Earl Stanhope
 observed, it was his duty to present to their Lordships the great number of Petitions which he had received from various classes of Protestant Dissenters against this Bill. The first Petition he presented was one from Market Harborough, which the noble earl desired might be read. Which being done, he next moved that the said Petition do lie on the table.Earl Stanhope
 felt very forcibly the importance which must be attached to what had been stated by his noble friend, particularly as he knew that his noble friend spoke the sentiments of government upon this subject. Still, however, he did not think that his noble friend had made out a case to call upon him to withdraw his Bill. His noble friend had spoken of misconception and mistake, and certainly there had been much misinterpretation and misconception, but if the Bill was allowed to go into a Committee, every thing that had given rise to misconception might be remedied. The noble viscount was proceeding to explain the objects of the Bill, and his reasons for proposing it, hoping the House would indulge him, by allowing him to do so, whenViscount Sidmouth
242241240239238 rose, and said, that in moving the second reading of this Bill, be should make no remarks on the number of petitions which had been presented against it, as he readily supposed that the petitioners sincerely believed what they had expressed with respect to the operation of it. His noble friend, the Secretary of State had truly stated, that great misconception and misapprehension had gone forth respecting the Bill, and he must add, great misrepresentation. The various public resolutions were, for the greater part, inapplicable to the real objects of his Bill. When the intelligent mind of his noble friend was not quite free from misconception, he could not wonder at seeing the misapprehensions of others. It seemed to be thought that some change was intended in our Toleration laws. What was it? The object of the Bill, the clauses of which might be amended in the Committee, was merely to give uniformity to the two acts on which our system of toleration was founded; its object was not to exclude any class of dissenters, but to comprehend all, according to the spirit and meaning of those acts. This was the sole purpose of the Bill. He was led to propose it from information be had a considerable time since received, of what was and is the prevalent mode of executing those acts. He lamented to think that the effect of those Bills was, that any ignorant person of depraved morals should be able, by taking the oath of allegiance, by making the declaration against Popery, and subscribing to certain articles of the church, declaring himself under the 19th of the present king, a Christian and Protestant, and a believer that the Old and New Testaments contained the revealed will of God, to claim his licence, and that his certificate should enable him to preach any where any doctrines he pleased; and that this did, in fact, till 1802, exempt him from many civil and from all military services. At first he could hardly credit that interpretation of be laws. He could state, but that he feared fatiguing their lordships, information from many magistrates of numerous applications at quarter sessions, evidently to obtain these exemptions. He had heard of what he confessed was credit-
242241240239238Viscount Sidmouth
 said, he should not farther trouble the House at that time. It had not been his intention to take up their time long; but he should reserve himself till the second reading, then more fully to explain himself.Viscount Sidmouth
 spoke shortly in reply. He would not be deterred by any thing which had passed, from pursuing that line of conduct which his duty dictated. He understood the exposition of the two acts of Toleration which had been laid down by several noble lords, was that, by the act of William and Mary, a person in holy orders, or pretending holy orders, or a preacher or teacher, was entitled to exemption. While, by the 19th of his majesty, which was intended as a further relief, the applicant must not merely be in holy orders, or pretending holy orders, or a preacher or teacher, but he must be the minister of a separate congregation. Thus, in complying with this act, which was intended for his benefit, he was obliged to assume a two fold character; whereas by the former act he was only called on in one capacity. This was a state of the law which, he conceived, required alteration, and should not be permitted to remain.Viscount Sidmouth
252, though he did not disapprove of the determination of his noble friend not to persevere in the
252The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 stated, that he had nearly 200 petitions to present on the same important subject. He should make no oilier prefatory remark, but say that they contained the same opinions on that question, which he himself maintained on the subject of the toleration act.—These petitions were presented, and ordered to lie on the table. They were from all parts of England, and some of them had an immense number of signatures.Lord Erskine
246Mandamus245244 observed, that the numerous petitions presented this evening against the Bill, were only a few of the immense number (to the amount of ten times as many) that would be received, were an opportunity afforded for their transmission from remote parts, by any postponement of the discussion on this subject. But no Such postponement was necessary; and he was in hopes he should be able in a few minutes to lay such grounds before their lordships, as would induce even the noble mover himself, to acknowledge that he was justified in proposing the Amendment, with which it was his intention to Conclude; namely, that the second reading of the Bill should stand for this day six months. From what had fallen from the noble mover, their lordships would suppose this Bill to be a bill of regulation to explain that, which had been justly called the palladium of religious liberty, the Toleration Act. Bat instead of that, he would shew that it was a declaratory act, directly repugnant to the spirit and letter of that in Valuable act. The preamble, he contended, was a direct repeal of the most important parts of the Toleration Act, which for 120 years had been administered without any difference of opinion or doubt in the breast of any justice or other individual. After the very recital of the Toleration Act, "that persons in holy orders, or pretended holy orders, or pretending to holy orders," should be free from the penal enactments it contained; this Bill went to leave all those classes, except the first (those in holy orders) excluded from these exemptions, and to be provided for by future clauses, to be introduced by the
246Mandamus245244Lord Erskine
l called the attention of the House to the votes of the House of Commons of last night, by which it appeared, that an Address had been voted to the Prince Regent, praying his Royal Highness to order the sum of 54,000lThe Earl of Radnor
269 observed, that the proceeding alluded to by the noble earl, was inconsistent with the dignity and independence of that House as a separate branch of the legislature, namely, the voting, by address, of a considerable sum of money to an individual in a way in which their lordships could not regularly exercise their controuling or separate power as an independent branch-There were not many instances of proceedings of this kind. The last within his recollection was when the House of Com-
269The Earl of Lauderdale
 entertained a very different sentiment from his noble friend, as to the case of Mr. Palmer. The contemplation of no case whatever, gave him so much pain as that, as he thought the principles of justice were far departed from. The procedure in that House upon that occasion was what he highly disapproved. Ought that House to have proceeded upon evidence stated before the Commons? He retained his former sentiments as to the justice of Mr. Palmer's Claims, and never could he hear the subject mentioned without expressing those sentiments. This however, was a point distinct from that first touched upon by his noble friend, a point upon which he would, at present, offer no opinion.The Earl of Moira
 rose to explain. He had not used words bearing the construction the noble earl had put upon them. Whatever difference of opinion he entertained from the noble earl respecting the public character and merits of the noble earl's illustrious and great friend, he never brought that grant into comparison, far less into a precedent, with respect to the case of Mr. Palmer; and that must be the more evident to the noble earl, who was entirely in possession of his sentiments on the latter ease.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that he was one of the majority who had voted against Mr. Palmer's claims; and, in giving that vote, he considered the case, both as it purported to be a claim in justice and a claim in equity.—In both views of it, to him it appeared unfounded; and that opinion he delivered, after giving it as much attention and consideration as if he had pronounced that opinion in a court of justice.The Lord Chancellor
 asked if any notice had been given by the noble earl of his intention to bring Mr. Palmer's case before their lordships that evening? If not, he did not think it fair to enter upon the discussion in so thin a House. Besides, their lordships would do well to consider in what difficulties they might involve themselves by objecting to the vote.The Duke of Norfolk
 confessed he had given no notice of his intention to mention the circumstance to the House, but had brought it under their consideration merely from what he conceived to be his duty. Neither had he any intention of renewing the question, but should leave it to any noble lord whom it might please to take it up.The Earl of Radnor
270 expressed his satisfaction that the late proceeding of the Commons had been so properly noticed in that House, and on the earliest possible opportunity. With reference, however, to his own convictions upon the subject, and the deliberate decision of the House upon it, he could not possibly hear what fell from the noble earl who spoke last, without entering his protest against it. Their lordships had decided, after the most full and deliberate consideration of the subject, not only upon evidence transmitted by the House of Commons, but on further and original evidence laid before their lordships. After what had taken place, he, for one, thought the subject would never be brought forward again.
270The Earl of Harrowby
 contended, that the noble and learned lord had no just ground on the present occasion to arraign the framers or supporters of the Bills before the House, of an inclination to intro-duce what he was pleased to call modern philosophy. The same principle upon which these Bills stood, had lately been acted upon by their lordships in the framing of a Bill to consolidate into one, all the acts which made death the punishment of certain offences against the excise laws. Some of the first legal authorities in the country had given their attention, their labour, and their approbation to that measure; and no one thought of describing it as an attempt to introduce and establish a system of criminal law, on the basis of what was termed modern philosophy.The Earl of Lauderdale
301 referred to the example of the disposition which men's minds had to examine the principles upon which our criminal code was framed, a disposition which he himself felt in early life, before observation and experience had matured his judgment. Since, however, he had learned to listen to these great teachers in this important science, his ideas had greatly changed, and he saw the wisdom of the principles and practice by which our criminal code was regulated. It was impossible to observe the various forms and aspects under which offences of the same class, and liable to the same punishments, offered themselves to our view, without feeling the necessity of allowing a degree of discretion in apportioning
301The Lord Chancellor
 addressed their lordships on the subject of the recent vote of the House of Commons, in favour of Mr. Palmer. He expressed his satisfaction at the notice taken by noble lords of the subject on a former evening; and he disapproved of such a proceeding on the part of the other House, after the question had been fully discussed, and decided in the negative by their lordships. He thought it preferable that no proposition should be made in that House, in consequence, but that they should wait until the answer of his royal highness the Prince Regent upon the occasion should be known. He, for one, as a member of his Majesty's government, or an adviser of his royal highness, should not recommend to him to sanction or authorize the grant of money for satisfying a claim which their lordships' House had decided to be unfounded.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his satisfaction at what had fallen from the noble secretary of state.The Earl of Radnor
s299298sl297, pursuant to notice, rose, to move the second reading of the Bills brought up from the Commons, and proposed by sir Samuel Romilly, for repealing the capital punishments annexed to the offences of stealing in dwelling-houses and shops, beyond a certain amount; stealing on Navigable Canals; and in bleaching grounds in Great Britain and Ireland. He first stated the origin and nature of the acts which rendered the offences in question capitally punishable. These enactments took place in the reign of William the third, and of queen Anne; and he adverted to the very different nature of the existing laws of England, from what they were at those particular periods: and also of the very material difference in the value of money. It was judged, under the circumstances of those days, advisable to punish these offences in the most compendious, though not the most efficacious, way they could devise, namely, by the dreadful punishment of death. The Bills under consideration, though evidently for
s299298sl297Lord Holland
 contended that his statement was correct. By the revenue laws, as they originally stood, there were 95 offences punishable with death; by the late Bill they had been reduced to 25.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the reason which influenced the House to refer the revenue laws to a Committee was, that, in several of those acts, the penalty of death was enacted "by reference." This was most improper, and therefore the House had thought fit to investigate the matter. Direction was given to the judges to include in one act all the revenue laws which enacted the penalty of death. This Bill was referred to a Committee up stairs, and all those who were practically acquainted with the subject were examined as to the propriety of retaining or commuting the punishment of death attached to many of the offences. The proceeding bore, no resemblance to the measure then before the House. The noble lord who brought in the Bill had passed a high eulogium on the talents of the hon. and learned gentleman who had framed it. He was willing to concur in that eulogium; but it should be recollected that the branch of the law to which that hon. and learned gentleman applied himself, could afford but little information on the criminal law. He objected not so much to the Bills themselves, as to the principle on which they were founded, which might be applied to the whole criminal code. That code had succeeded as well as it was possible for any system of criminal law to succeed. He should therefore oppose the Bills, which, while he was sure they could effect no good, might be productive of very great mischief.The Earl of Liverpool
303 said that the facts which were admitted to have been proved before the Committee on the re-venue laws, that, in many instances, the severity of punishment had increased the unwillingness to prosecute, and thereby become the means of increasing offences, were sufficient to prove the necessity of the interference of the legislature. Those who asserted that it was intended to take away all discretion from the judges were mistaken. By examining the Bill it would
303The Marquis of Lansdowne
 replied briefly" to the arguments advanced against the Bill.Lord Holland
300 thought the whole of this argument might be confined to this alternative; either there must be a high punishment for the aggravated commission of a general crime bearing the intermediate degrees between that and the lowest penalty, to be supplied by the discretion of the judge; or there must be a graduated seals of punishment, proportioned to all the shades and difference of crime. The latter mode was a the story borrowed from the Chinese code, which, in a late pamphlet, was represented to embrace the shades of difference of crime, from murder, down to those of the lowest denomination, where even the blows of the baton were not only numbered, but the size and thickness of the instrument ascertained. Such a system he contended was ridiculous, and as absurd in theory, as it would be found nugatory in practice. Judge Blackstone's authority had been referred to, but what he stat-ed on the criminal law was written at a period of his life when he was inexperienced, and though his authority was great and deservedly respected, yet it was not equal to other eminent legal authorities, The Bill which altered the law as it regarded privately stealing from the person, had, he knew beyond all doubt, increased that offence to a serious and alarming degree. He instanced some cases of gross atrocity which had come to his knowledge, at the last sessions at the Old Bailey. Two of the Bills on their lordships' table, respecting stealing from bleaching-grounds in England and Ireland, he should not oppose, on account of the petitions from those who were to receive the protection of the law. The other three, respecting stealing from shops, dwelling-houses, and canals, he should oppose; for they went to alter those laws, which a century had proved to be necessary, and which were now to be overturned by speculation and modern philosophy. He thought prosecutions were in general most sturdily pursued; and instead of prosecutions being encouraged, there was reason at all times to restrain them; for the parties appeared not to be wanting in an appetite for conviction. Juries, in general, acted according to their anxiety; and this might be called a rice inherent in the constitution of man. The discretion in Judges
300Lord Ellenborough
302 considered the discretion with which the judges were entrusted, as extremely beneficial. Allusion had been made by a noble lord to the Committee of that House, to whom the revenue laws, as far as respected the penalty of death, had been referred. The statement of that noble lord was not, however, correct. The fact was, that in the act which had been brought in, in consequence of their proceedings, the language of the former acts had been greatly simplified, but very few of the capital punishments had been commuted. In two instances, only, he
302Lord Redesdale
 said, that the British nation was confessedly the most moral of any nation now known; and if in such a nation, he observed that a great number of offences were committed, to which was attached death, he should impute such an occurrence rather to something vicious and defective in our criminal code, than to any depravity in the moral disposition of our people. When he saw that out of one hundred prosecutions, fifty or sixty convictions and executions followed, then he should be satisfied that such offences should be punished by death; but when out of a thousand prosecutions, he observed that only one conviction and execution followed, he should also infer, that the legislature must see, that the pain of death was not applicable to such offences, on this ground he should support the motion now before the House.Lord Erskine
 would not object to the engrossment, but he should feel himself compelled to say not-content to the third reading. If, however, in consequence of the failure of this measure, a common Insolvent Bill was brought in, he would not object to it.The Lord Chancellor
323 in presenting the petition of the Roman Catholics in Ireland, spoke to the in following effect: My Lords; It is with peculiar satisfaction that I rise this night, to occupy a few moments of your attention—moments which I shall devote, however, to the consideration of the most important subject that can meet your lordships' mind. It is in consequence of the indisposition of an excellent peer (lord Donoughmore) a man whose name will be ever held sacred by his country, from the zeal and proper enthusiasm he has displayed in the cause of his Catholic countrymen. It is, my Lords, in consequence of his indisposition that this honour has fallen upon me. May his health soon be re-established, that so the Catholics of Ireland may again possess an abler asserter of their rights than myself; but they cannot possess a more sincere one. No, my Lords, I feel for them in my heart. I know them well. Not merely from what I have heard, but from what I have seen and witnessed. They are a most respectable body of men, and in this long list of petitioners, my Lords, there are many reputable, not only from the characters and good conduct, but from the situation they hold in society. Many of them I know, most of them I have some knowledge of—and all of them, I can assure you, my Lords, are worthy of a participation in those blessed rights and privileges which you possess. They are born Britons, my Lords: they have lived Britons: they think, and act, and feel like Britons; and for God's sake treat them as
323The Marquis of Downshire,
324 had objections to some, of the provisions of this Bill, but was fully, aware that it was impossible to frame
324The Earl of Moira
 wished the Bill to be recommitted, in order to give an opportunity of rectifying the numerous errors which he contended were still in the Bill.Earl Stanhope
 proposed a new clause, which was agreed to, for the purposes of rendering the benefices of clergymen liable to sequestration under the Act the same as in other cases. His lordship then moved that the Bill be engrossed.Lord Redesdale
l greatly regretted the opposition which his Bill had met with, and observed that a perfect measure could not be expected; all they could do was to take experience as far as possible for their guide, and make further enactments as they were found expedient. An idea had gone abroad that this was his final Bill upon this subject, but the fact was, that he had another Bill in contemplation for the purpose of compelling the debtor to surrender his property to his creditors; and also a Bill which he was disappointed in its not being proposed in the other House this session, for the purpose of the more effectual recovery, at a small expence, of debts under 20lLord Redesdale
 repeated his argument in favour of the Resolution as it now stood; and thought it would be better to leave the point to the subsequent discretion of the House, according to circumstances, as they were now guided in several other points of a nature nearly similar.The Earl of Liverpool
 then moved the adoption of the second Resolution.The Earl of Liverpool
 recurred to his former argument, that the House had not sufficient information before them, as to the business of the court of Chancery, to warrant the adoptionThe Earl of Lauderdale
 briefly observed upon the vast increase of the number of Appeals in that House since the periods adverted to by the noble earl: it was ten fold.The Lord Chancellor
 in reply, contended, that the information required was essentially necessary, to enable the House to form a judgment of the merits of the question. When lord Lough borough presided in that House, there was only one year of Appeals in arrear, and yet they had no information as to the state of the Chancery business at that period. He meant not to speak either in praise or depreciation of the conduct of any noble lord while in that situation. He only wished they should be informed as to the matter of fact.The Earl of Lauderdale,
 after observing that the information before the Committee on this subject only extended to the comparative increase of business in the Court of Chancery between the periods of ten years up to 1755, and ten years from 1800, moved for an account of the business before that court from 1755 to 1800, and the number of Decrees from 1755 to 1810.The Earl of Lauderdale,
336335 had no objection to the motion, but could not consent to delay, till the information was produced, the measure in contemplation for the more speedy hearing of Appeals in that House, which he thought it was of great importance should be passed before the session closed, in order that they might begin in the next session on the new arrangement.—The motion was agreed to. The order of the day was read for taking into consideration the Report of the Committee relative to the slate of the Appeals in the House of Lords. The Report was read by the clerk at the table as follows:—"Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is indispensably necessary, and that it so appears to be from the great number of Appeals and Writs of Error now depending in the House, amounting together to 338, of which 296 are Appeals, and 42 Writs of Error, that a greater proportion of the time of the House of Lords should be employed in hearing Appeals, than has been hitherto allotted to this part of the business of the House; and that it will be expedient, therefore, that the House should determine to sit for this purpose at least three days in every week during the session, meeting at ten o'clock at latest on each day till the present arrear of causes shall have been considerably reduced, and subsequently two days in the week at least, meeting at the same hour. That as the above regulation will un-
336335The Earl of Liverpool
 after an able and perspicuous commentary on the necessity of adopting measures for the more expeditious transaction of the judicial business of the House, and the beneficial tendency of adopting the Resolutions recommended by the Committee, moved their lordships to agree to the first Resolution.The Earl of Liverpool,
 reminded the noble earl, that the Resolution referred only to Appeals and Writs of Error. The House had other judicial business to attend to, and which occupied a great portion of, their lordships' time, as the cases of the Berkeley and the Banbury peerages this session amply evinced. There must always, from the nature of the thing, be some cases remaining untried, and he thought it would be preferable to leave the Resolution as it stood, as, when the arrear should be considerably reduced, the House could decide oh the most preferable mode of proceeding under the circumstances.The Earl of Liverpool
 approved of the amendment. He thought they should proceed in the most expeditious way until the whole arrear was extinguished; and that it would be proper to introduce into that part of the Resolution, instead of the present words, the following: "Until the then existing arrear of causes shall be extinguished."Earl Grey
 referring to the increase of balances in the hands of the Accomptant General, observed, that it was no proof of the increase of the general business of the court of Chancery.Earl Grey,
 cordially agreed with the noble secretary, that every thing which tended to dispatch in such cases was desirable; but with the Resolution as now proposed, he could not agree. It proceeded on a principle that a number of cases should be left or kept untried. This, he thought, was wrong, as they should proceed until the whole arrear should be wiped off instead of "considerably reduced," as the Resolution had it; and he should move to amend it accordingly.Earl Stanhope
 entertained a contrary opinion. That increase, combined with many other notorious circumstances, demonstrated an increase of business in Chancery. It was increased also in consequence of the additional business thrown upon the court by the various acts of Parliament.Lord Redesdale
429 rose to present a Bill for the temporary relief of Insolvent Debtors. During a recent discussion of a measure of a similar tendency, it was generally acknowledged that although that Bill could not be admitted in its present shape, still some Bill in the form of the temporary Insolvent Bill, which had been adopted of late years, was expedient, indeed absolutely necessary, from the overflowing State of our prisons with unfortunate persons of this description. Finding that noble lord took up the hint, he had resolved not to let the session close without some measure, however imperfect; and although he did not approve of the principle, or the provisions of such temporary bills, yet feeling the absolute necessity of some measure of the sort, he had prevailed upon himself to introduce one, which he did, however, upon the understanding that the Bill adhered to the principle of his noble and learned friend's Bill, which he trusted his noble friend would persevere in till it should be
429Earl Moira
 presented the Report of the Committee on this Bill, which was ordered to be taken into consideration, on Monday next.Lord Keith
 spoke generally in approbation of the measure as then before the House. He had no objection to a recommitment of the Bill, if the noble earl thought it could be advantageous. The noble lord appeared to think favourably of the plan as proposed by Mr. Rennie, and seemed to say that it was sanctioned by the approbation of Dr. Hutton.Lord Keith
430in, oto was adverse to the measure 430in, otoThe Duke of Norfolk
 spoke in explanation: enforced his former remarks, and observed, that Dr. Hutton, as an interested individual, could not regularly be examined before the Committee, but such was his high respect for Dr. Hutton, that whether he was interested or not, he should pay the greatest deference to his opinion. But he added, that were the scientific gentleman in question to be thoroughly examined, his sentiments would be found similar to those entertained by himself.Earl Stanhope
 gave notice, that it was his intention to move for the recommitment of the Bill on that day, and took that opportunity to make a few observations respecting the proposed erection. The bridge proposed to be erected was to be of cast iron, and to consist of three arches, each of which would be double the breadth of Oxford-street. He knew such a thing was practicable, but he doubted of its efficacy according to the plan proposed. He wished the matter to be further investigated, and with that view, that the Bill should be recommitted. Mr. Rennie, the engineer on the occasion, had not been closely examined. He had not prepared the necessary calculations when he was before the Committee, and he thought an opportunity should be afforded for a further inquiry into the subject.Earl Stanhope
, for the purpose of moving a corresponding Address to his royal highness on the occasion: He deemed it unnecessary to occupy their lordship's time, by offering any preliminary observations, as under the known circumstances of the times, the expediency, the necessity, and the policy of the measure proposed by the Message, were too evident to be dwelt on. He should, therefore, reserve himself for any objection that might possibly be offered. He would, however, state the sum proposed, or to be proposed in another place, as the extent of the Vote of Credit, namely, three millions for England, and two hundred thousand pounds for the service of Ireland. He repeated, that under such circumstances as the present, no rational objection could be made to the placing, for the purposes mentioned in his royal highness's Message, at the disposal of his Majesty's government, the sum alluded to, to be expended by ministers, on their responsibility, as the exigencies of the case might require. His lordship then moved an Address corresponding with his royal highness's Message, and assuring him of the ready concurrence of their lordships as desired.—On the question being put,The Earl of Liverpoolrose
460 rose not to oppose the motion, but for the purpose of adverting to a very important consideration connected with the subject. He had always been of opinion, that it was only in the peninsula, that the French were to be attacked with any prospect of success. From the successes hitherto, he was induced to hope the contest would terminate in our favour. He wished, however, to be informed by the noble secretary of state, whether it was the intention of government to adopt measures for the embodying
460The Earl of Suffolk
 observed, that their lordships must feel the question to involve a point of considerable delicacy. He could, however, answer generally, that it was an object his Majesty's government had never lost sight of, and such steps as they deemed expedient had been taken on the subject; but he could not speak more explicitly, until such arrangements should be completed as might be regularly laid before the parliament. He would say thus much, both with respect to the description of troops alluded to by the noble earl, and of the officers who commanded them, that they were greatly advanced in point of discipline and general improvement within the last three months. And of this the occurrences at the late glorious action at Albuera, had afforded manifest proofs, by the gallantry, skill, and valour, displayed by that portion of the allied forces—forming a most rational ground for confidence, that in due time those troops would answer every possible expectation.The Earl of Liverpool
513512 rose, and said, that whatever difference of opinion might sometimes occur in questions of this nature, he could anticipate none on the present occasion The highest honour that could be paid to the exertions of our army and navy, were to be found in the thanks of the parliament, and the approbation of the sovereign, which was so felt by them to whom such approbation was given. He knew also, from former experience, that it was a tribute to departed merit most grateful to the surviving friends and relatives of those who fell in their country's service, a consolation that
513512The Earl of Liverpool
 seconded the motion. After expressing his deep sense of the merits of this battle, and his general agreement with what had fallen from the noble earl he mentioned some degree of surprise that no similar notice had been taken of the great merits of lord Wellington, in the battle of Fuentes de Honor; an action, which his lordship conceived, fully entitled him to a vote of thanks from that House, which was distinguished by a most masterly manœuvre, and which the thanks of the House recently voted to his lordship was no reason, in his mind, for preventing.The Karl of Aberdeen
 explained, that the thanks had been given to lord Wellington for the general system of the campaign. There would be no doubt of the disposition of government to thank lord Wellington for his achievements; of which he was certain, that noble commander was perfectly acquainted. No thanks voted to General Beresford could interfere with the honour so justly due to lord Wellington.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his sincere and hearty concurrence in the testimony to the valour, skill, and perseverance displayed by general sir W. Beresford and his army. Their thanks he should have considered most worthily earned, had the battle been merely a grand assertion of the valour and dignity of the British name and character. On the general subject of the thanks of Parliament, of which he thought the value could not be kept up too high, he observe, that it had of late come too much into practice to exercise too great a latitude. There was a danger in this, because ministers might make use of them to gain parliamentary approbation of expeditions of their own, which were rash and improvident, though the officers employed displayed all those merits, which, as far as they were concerned, deserved a grateful return. In the present instance, however, there were no grounds of this nature on which suspicion could rest. It was another victory, which shewed to the world that the gallant officers and soldiers of our army were the worthy comrades of those who, on every sea, had proclaimed our naval glories. He was happy to see that cordiality as well as steady bravery, in the Spaniards; which cordiality, from some causes or other, had, unfortunately, not been displayed on any former occasion. He trusted it would lead to farther proofs of its efficacy; and that the excellent opportunities it must afford would not be lost, now that the war was, in fact, beginning daily to assume a more important appearance. It was with regret he alluded to our not having taken more effectual steps at an earlier period, to conciliate the Spanish mint!, and to infuse into it a greater degree of confidence in us.The Earl of Moira
516 explained, and highly panegyrised the military character of lord Wellington, to whom, in some degree, the success in question was to be attributed, in consequence of his admirable and very
516The Earl of Rosslyn
 then moved the Thanks of the House in the usual form, to generals Cole, Stewart, and the other principal officers of the army under the command of Marshal Beresford; which were voted in the usual manner. Also to the non-commissioned officers and privates serving in the different corps, and that the Lord Chancellor be desired to communicate the said Thanks in the customary manner to Marshal Beresford. His lordship also moved, That this House do highly approve of and acknowledge the meritorious conduct, the skill and valour displayed by the Spanish army under the command of general Blake, on the 16th of May last, in the glorious battle at Albuera.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his wish to be informed by the noble earl what precedents existed of a proceeding of the kind, especially with respect to the mode of conveying the sense of parliament to those officers of our allies who were the objects of the vote? As the matter stood at present, it must be through the medium of the British commander. He seemed to think, by means of an Address to the crown, or to the person exercising the royal authority, that the sense entertained by parliament of the services of our allies might be conveyed: he had not read the precedents with respect to similar cases; he had the highest respect for the honour conferred by such a vote of the legislature, but thought the channel or mode of conveying the expressions of such sense should be in the manner likely to prove the most agreeable and respectful to those who were the objects of it.Lord Holland
517 observed, that the noble baron could not be more solicitous upon that point than he was himself; but precedents existed of proceedings of the kind, particularly in the seven years' war, in the case of the thanks voted to prince Ferdinand. He adverted to the frequent communication between the commander
517The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed himself satisfied with what had fallen from the noble secretary of state.—The question was then put, and the motion agreed to, nem. diss.Lord Holland
 said, after what had been so ably stated, he could have but little to add. In all that was said in the way of unqualified praise, he most cordially concurred. But there was one point, more especially, upon which the illustrious officer in question deserved the applause of the country. He alluded to the high degree of improvement in discipline to which the Portuguese troops had arrived under his auspices. Of this part of the subject he had some knowledge, from his own personal experience. He was aware of the difficulties he had to encounter, and he knew better than some of their lordships the state in which general Beresford must have found the troops of that country. It was impossible he could adequately express his sense of that officer's merits on this head, or what the country owed to him for such an essential service. He hailed this striking improvement in the discipline and conduct of the Portuguese troops as a most auspicious omen for the Peninsula at large, and for the common cause. He felt it must operate as a most beneficial example to the Spaniards. He could not speak in terms of sufficient praise of the general conduct of the action at Albuera, either with respect to the skill, gallantry or spirit, displayed by every individual engaged on the occasion. He was bold to say that, in these respects, it was never transcended.The Earl of Rosslyn
 could not avoid saying a few words respecting a point which more than once had been alluded to that evening. He was confident the liberal and enlightened mind of lord Wellington felt superior to every consideration of the kind. His renown was too well established, not only in this country, but throughout the world, to suffer him to harbour such a sentiment; but if any thing could add to his satisfaction, it would be to reflect that his great example was followed by a commander so near to him—that he had infused into British generals the noble spirit of emulation. He acquiesced, of course, in all that had been said in applause of the glorious action under their consideration.The Earl of Harrowby
515 agreed with the noble earl who spoke last, that great and extraordinary services, when frequently repeated, became less striking. There was nothing however in the present proceeding that could possibly have such an effect, as that alluded to with respect to lord Wellington:
515Lord Mulgrave
 expressed his astonishment that the noble earl had not given some explanation on the subject of this Bill, containing, as it did, a clause ruinous to the Distilleries of this country.The Earl of Lauderdale
d recurred to what he had stated on a former day, on the clause relative to the Drawback on Spirits exported from Ireland to Great Britain, and observed that by the operation of this clause, the Irish distiller would be actually enabled to land his spirits in London at an expence amounting to 10dThe Earl of Lauderdale
 strenuously recommended the propriety of adjourning the second reading, till they could have the whole of this measure before them.The Earl of Rosslyn
 considered all the objections suggested as applicable to the provisions, and not to the principle of the Bill, and therefore they afforded no reason why they should postpone the second reading.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that if the clause now objected to was not agreed to, the Irish Distiller would, as the law now stood, be entitled to a greater drawback than he would under this clause, and the evil complained of would of course be the greater. He thought the proper time for discussing the remedy for the evil would be when the other Bill came up from the Commons, and therefore objected to delaying the progress of the present Bill.Earl Bathurst
 contended, that the noble earl's objection only applying to a particular clause, the time for discussing it was in the Committee, and that to the principle of the Bill there could be no objection; its object being the annual continuation of the Irish Duties, which would expire on the 5th of July.Earl Bathurst
 moved the second reading of the Irish Duties and Drawbacks Bill.Earl Bathurst
 could not answer exactly for what the noble lord had understood upon the point; but on that head he had more than once pointedly declared his intention. He should not support a temporary insolvent bill, except it were on an ampler scale than the last one. He was adverse to the principle of these temporary and palliative measures. He differed from the noble and learned lord as to the principles he seemed to entertain respecting imprisonment for debt, and there were provisions in the Bill of last year which he never could agree to. The grounds on which he always advocated the cause of debtors, and strove for the melioration of the laws with respect to them, were, abstracted from feelings and considerations of humanity, consonant to the clear and incontrovertible principles of justice.The Earl of Moira
608 declared that he had given the utmost attention to bills of this nature; and though he was ready to admit that a great mass of evil existed in
608The Lord Chancellor
 contended, that the ends of justice would be best consulted by adhering to the law as it now stood. His experience and observation enabled him to state, that there were twenty fraudulent debtors where there was one vexatious and unmerciful creditor; and every attention should be paid to the claims of the creditor, who had generally run great risks, and who might be wholly ruined, if all hold on the debtor were to be taken from him.Lord Ellenborough
l607ll expressed his decided disapprobation of the Bill, as then before the House. He had uniformly understood the Bill to be brought in as a temporary insolvent act, on the withdrawing of his noble friend's general and comprehensive bill, and that it was to have been exactly 'similar to the act of last year. This he feared was not the case. There were considerable variations; and the sum was extended from 2,000l607llLord Ellenborough
 did not rise to oppose the motion, but merely to express a hope that the discussion would not be deferred beyond Tuesday, if it was meant to bring it on at all this session, although he thought it might be postponed till the next session without the least prejudice to the question. He also wished to observe, that the Committee on the Militia Interchange Bill, which had been postponed till Monday, could not at this late period of the session be longer deferred, without great inconvenience.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, there was every reason to believe that his noble friend would be able to attend on Tuesday, and would in that case certainly bring on the question.Earl Grey
625 expressed his regret, that in consequence of illness his noble friend (the earl of Donoughmore) was rendered, unable to attend the House, to bring forward his motion the Roman Catholic Petitions. He could take upon him to assure their lordships, that nothing but the inability on the part of his noble friend, not only to make any exertion, but even to attend the House, would have prevented him from bringing forward his motion. It would be desirable at this late period of the session"
625Earl Grey
643 rose to move that duplicates of the correspondence which had passed between the British and the French governments, relative to the Exchange of Prisoners, and which correspondence had been already laid before the other House of Parliament, be also laid on their lordships' table. It was painful to consider to what hardships and privations such a large number of persons had, in both countries, been doomed for such a length of time, especially if no serious measure had been adopted to relieve them from so distressing a situation. It was proper that their lordships should inquire, and that the country should know to which of the two governments was to be imputed the failure of the attempt to settle some plan for the exchange of prisoners of war. It was proper it should be known that nothing in fairness and in justice had been omitted on the part of the British government to effect that exchange, and that if it failed, it had not failed, through any want of sincerity and anxiety
643Lord Holland
 was as desirous as any noble lord could be, that the conduct of government, in this respect, should be as generally and as publicly known as possible. Indeed government had evinced a most sincere anxiety to obtain this object by the sacrifices they were ready to make, in order to attain it; for every proposition that was just, fair, and equitable, had been made to the enemy for that purpose, but they were not met by a similar disposition, and had been frustrated only by the exorbitant, and wholly inadmissible demands on the Part of the French government.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought the Amendment unnecessary; as care would be taken, on the adoption of this measure, to have a general order issued here, similar to that in Ireland. He believed the Catholics, whom he admitted to be as respectable and loyal as any other description of his Majesty's subjects, were quite satisfied on this point, and that the regiments from counties chiefly Catholic were among those who would be first in volunteering their services in England.The Earl of Liverpool
644 contended for the clause proposed. He thought nothing
644The Earl of Moira
 argued in support of the clause. The question ought not to stand on the disposition of a Secretary of State, or a Commander-in-Chief, whoever they might be: it was one which it became parliament to fix beyond misapprehension. A proof that the original clause was not sufficient, was shewn in the necessity of promising a general order from the Commander-in-Chief here.Lord Holland
 proposed a clause, which went to limit the interchange to the cases of invasion or rebellion.The Earl of Radnor
 objected to the clause as hostile to the principle of the Bill; the professed object of which was to promote the intercourse, not only on extraordinary but on ordinary occasions, and thus more closely cement the connection between the two countries.The Earl of Liverpool
 was of opinion, that the Bill as it stood really went to consolidate the efforts of the Empire; and therefore though it considerably trenched upon the old principles of the militia acts, yet the former advantage so much outweighed any inconvenieuce from the latter, that the Bill should have his support.Lord Holland
 moved the insertion of the words he had moved to insert into the Mutiny Bill, and which provided that no officer should have the power of compelling any soldier not of the Church of England to attend its service, and gave him the right of attending those places of worship to which he was attached, according to the dictates of his own conscience, such attendance not interfering with his civil or military duties. He wished not to leave this matter to the discretion of this or that Commander in Chief, but to make it clear and undoubted by a parliamentary enactment.Earl Stanhope
 in reply, strenuously defended the principle of his amendment, as founded on the sacred, inherent, and inalienable right of every man to worship his Creator in his own way, when it did not infringe on the civil and military duties he owed the state. Why should the Secretary of State refuse his amendment, which went to do that in a straight forward way which he wanted to do circuitously; which went to put that on a ground of right, which others seemed to put on a ground of favour? He appealed to the resolutions passed in May, in Dublin, to prove that the Catholics were not satisfied on this subject. Indeed, they could not be satisfied. The Secretary of State had a vast deal of faith, and the proof of his excessive faith was to be found in his belief in impossibilities! If the Catholics were dissatisfied, they would not come. Then the noble Secretary of State would be another Mahomet. The mountain would not come to him, and Mahomet must go to the mountain. He had proposed his amendment, in order to state his clear and conscientious opinion, and wondered how any man of principle could dispute it. But he should not then divide the House.—The Amendment was accordingly negatived.Earl Stanhope
 wished to have the doubts removed. He had no objection to the amendment, except his decided conviction, that government would act with perfect fairness. He also thought that some difficulties might arise from adopting the Amendment now, after refusing it in passing the Mutiny Bill.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
657656655654653652651650649648647in limine646 then rose. He said, that the subject on which he was about to address himself to their lordships was not to be considered as the commencement of a treaty between two independent communities, at the outset of which it might be necessary, as it had been the usage, to lay down certain principles, respecting which both parties were agreed, as a ground and basis of negotiation, on which they were to proceed to the discussion of their respective interests. It was a firm but legitimate appeal for the redress of grievances to that branch of the supreme power of the state, on the part of a large portion of its constituent body. There could exist, under such circumstances, no relations of equality; and therefore no previous stipulations could be admitted as preliminaries either on the one side or on the other. It was equally competent to the supreme power to give or to withhold; so did it depend exclusively on its discretion in what manner, and accompanied by what other measures, if any may be deemed necessary, it shall think fit to restore to the Petitioners those constitutional privileges, of which they complained that they had been deprived.657656655654653652651650649648647in limine646The Earl of Donoughmore
658 was of opinion that it would be better to postpone the consideration of the subject to another opportunity, when it would be less likely to create agitation and alarm amongst the majority of the people of the United Kingdom than at present. He was ready to acknowledge the respectability of many of the Irish Catholic bishops, but he could not consider the arrangement mentioned by the noble earl as at all adequate to the purpose for which it was proposed, as, if the Catholic bishops were to be placed within the patronage of government, their situations would become the object of ambitious contest, which would by no means tend to that harmony to which it was supposed the arrangement would lead. Great jealousy existed with regard to these claims. The noble lord said he did not wish to suppress the Catholic religion; but he wished to support the constitution. His lordship strongly objected to the proceeding at a Catholic meeting of addressing the Prince Regent to remove the lord lieutenant of Ireland, who was not the lord lieutenant of the Catholics, but of the country—and a country in which, though the majority of the population were Catholics, the greater part of the property and influence was in the
658The Earl of Long Ford
 rose and said: My Lords; agreeing, as I do most decidedly, with every part of my noble friend's most luminous and able speech, there remains little fur me to say that can add to the great body of information your lordships have gained on this subject this night. My anxiety, however, for the success of the cause, and the strong desire I feel to appear, as I hope I really am, an earnest supporter of the rights of my countrymen, will, I hope, plead my excuse for begging your lordships' indulgence for a short time. There cannot, I think, be adduced a stronger reason in favour of my noble friend's motion than the present contest on the peninsula; and as that contest is not likely soon to terminate, is it not an additional reason for conciliating and satisfying the minds of the people of a country, out of whose very vitals, I may say, are derived the means of carrying on the war. For, my Lords, a very large proportion of the army is composed of Irish Roman Catholic soldiers. These are the men whose bravery and noble conduct your lordships have already not long since extolled, and yet they are to be refused a participation in the rights and privileges of their country. Our gratitude demands of us to grant their request; and I am convinced, from my residence in Ireland, and the knowledge I have of the Irish as a people, that they are more susceptible of any kindness and attention than any other nation; and if they are so, as I can most truly say I have always found them in private transactions, what must they not feel towards this country, in return for their requests being granted, and their just rights being acknowledged? For these reasons, and for many others which I will not at present trouble your lordships with, I feel it my duty, as a peer of these kingdoms, to give my vote for my noble friend's motion.The marquis of Downshire
664Non ego nec Teucris, &c."But, Sir, if, on the other hand, it should happen that there be a country which, against the greatest of all dangers that threaten its peace and security, has not adequate means of protecting itself without the aid of another nation; if that other be a neighbouring and kindred nation, speaking the same language, whose laws, whose customs and habits are the same in principle, but carried to a greater degree of perfection, with a more extensive commerce, and more abundant means of acquiring and diffusing national wealth; the stability of whose government—the excellence of whose constitution—is more than ever the admiration and envy of Europe, and of which the very country of which we are speaking can only boast an inadequate and imperfect resemblance;—under such circumstances, I would ask, what conduct would be prescribed by every rational principle of dignity, of honour, or of interest? I would ask", whether this is not a faithful description of the circumstances which ought to dispose Ireland to a Union. Whether Great Britain is not precisely the nation with which, on these principles, a country, situated as Ireland is, would desire to unite? Does a Union, under such circumstances, by free consent, and on just and equal terms, deserve to be branded as a proposal for subjecting Ireland to a foreign yoke. Is it not rather the free and voluntary association of two great countries, which join, for their common benefit, in one empire, where each will retain its proportional weight and importance, under the security of equal laws, reciprocal affection, and inseperable interests, and which want nothing but that indissoluble connection to Tender both invincible?***Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant.*Nec nova regna peto; paribus se legibus ambæNon ego, nec Teucris Italos parere jubebo,663662661660659 observed, that after the speech of the noble lord on the other side, who spoke last but one, he
664Non ego nec Teucris, &c."But, Sir, if, on the other hand, it should happen that there be a country which, against the greatest of all dangers that threaten its peace and security, has not adequate means of protecting itself without the aid of another nation; if that other be a neighbouring and kindred nation, speaking the same language, whose laws, whose customs and habits are the same in principle, but carried to a greater degree of perfection, with a more extensive commerce, and more abundant means of acquiring and diffusing national wealth; the stability of whose government—the excellence of whose constitution—is more than ever the admiration and envy of Europe, and of which the very country of which we are speaking can only boast an inadequate and imperfect resemblance;—under such circumstances, I would ask, what conduct would be prescribed by every rational principle of dignity, of honour, or of interest? I would ask", whether this is not a faithful description of the circumstances which ought to dispose Ireland to a Union. Whether Great Britain is not precisely the nation with which, on these principles, a country, situated as Ireland is, would desire to unite? Does a Union, under such circumstances, by free consent, and on just and equal terms, deserve to be branded as a proposal for subjecting Ireland to a foreign yoke. Is it not rather the free and voluntary association of two great countries, which join, for their common benefit, in one empire, where each will retain its proportional weight and importance, under the security of equal laws, reciprocal affection, and inseperable interests, and which want nothing but that indissoluble connection to Tender both invincible?***Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant.*Nec nova regna peto; paribus se legibus ambæNon ego, nec Teucris Italos parere jubebo,663662661660659The Marquis of Lunsdowne
 bore testimony to the merits of the noble lord who spoke last, but he thought it but just to say, that that noble lord had misunderstood what had been said by the noble earl to whom he alluded.The Lord Chancellor
671670669668667666 (Dr. Henry Bathurst), rose and said; My Lords, if the noble and learned lord who spoke last had been content to state his own opinion, without asserting that the Catholic Petition was brought forward merely as a party question, and consequently, that those who support it, are actuated solely by party motives; I should very gladly have remained silent: Because, the expediency, the policy, the justice,—I had almost said the necessity—of conciliating the minds of the Catholics of Ireland; of gratifying their reasonable expectations; of acceding to their just demands, upon prudent and equitable conditions for the security of the Civil and Ecclesiastical Establishment, have been already repeatedly discussed in this House, and have also been, as it appears to me, unanswerably proved, by noble lords, far better qualified than I am to do justice to so important a subject:—and especially by he noble earl who opened this debate, in so copions, 30 clear, and so conclusive a manner, that it would be presumption in me to attempt to add any thing to what he has advanced.671670669668667666The Bishop of Norwich
673 would confidently appeal to the House, whether the present situation of the country was such as to render it proper to accede to the present application. To that part of the noble marquis's (Lansdowne) speech, he could not but differ, agreeing as he did most cordially in most of the sentiments that night delivered by him. Although he should feel himself bound to vote against the motion on the present occasion, he
673The Earl of Aberdeen
678677 said, that he had always entertained so sincere and rooted an opinion upon this subject, that though he might expose himself to be called a bigot, he would never suffer the motion for going into a Committee upon it to pass, without declaring his sentiments. He was grieved exceedingly at much of what had already taken place during this debate. He rose merely to re-state his former opinions. The noble lord who spoke last had lamented that this measure had not been carried after the Union, and had spoken of the opinions of the late Mr. Pitt. He had not, at that time, the confidence of that great man, to whose name and memory he believed he had shewn as much attachment as that noble lord or any other; but some time afterwards, for several years, he had enjoyed that confidence, and he could say, that in many, many conversations with him on this particular subject, he had taken the opportunity of trying to learn from him what was the nature of the securities and safeguards which he had to provide in case of granting such claims, and of telling him that he could not shift his foot from the solid ground of the constitution, till he told him in what they consisted. He would aver upon his honour, with all due respect for that great man, that he never could tell him, what were, in his own opinion, those securities and
678677The Lord Chancellor
682681680679onus probandi fully concurred in the definition of the noble and learned lord on the nature of civil and religious rights. They belonged naturally to all classes, and when withheld, the 682681680679onus probandiLord Holland
 said, that until a distinct plan was previously laid before their lordships, stating the securities by which the integrity of the Established Church was to be maintained, he thought it premature to ask their lordships to go into a committee.The Earl of Westn Oreland
683 in a short speech, supported the motion: he said that in all that had been urged that night by the noble lords who opposed it, he had not heard one new objection started, and in the old ones that had been repeated, not one argument. It had been said by one noble lord that the Irish Catholics were not generally anxious for the object now claimed in their behalf. He knew not why their own Petitions should not be admitted as evidence of their sincere and constant wish upon that subject? but, independent of that evidence, was it to be pretended that it was in human nature to be indifferent to persecution, unless, indeed, noble lords would argue as did a fox-hunter, in whose company he once heard an argument against the cruelty of hunting. The fox-hunter admitted that the hunting of hare or deer was cruel, but that of foxes was not so, because, in his judgment, the fox liked to be hunted. He denied the necessity of that previous stipulation on the part of the Catholics which had been contended for; the Catholics came before their lordships, not as Catholics but as British subjects, to claim their
683The Earl of Moira,
 said, that as every argument which he had already offered remained unanswered, and as they had been so well and ably confirmed by the reasoning of his noble friends who followed, he felt it unnecessary to trouble their lordships with any reply. With respect to a matter that had occurred in the course of the debate, and which personally alluded to himself, he hoped he knew too well what he owed to those who had honoured him with the high trust reposed in him, to have suffered any feelings of a private nature to have mixed with and disturbed the discharge of a great public duty. Nor should he now have at all alluded to the circumstance itself in that place, had it not been for the full and candid explanation just made by the noble and learned lord. Indeed, when the noble and learned lord was adverting to what had fallen from him, he was on the point of correcting the misconception, when a term fell from the noble and learned lord which he thought necessarily closed his mouth. He had certainly alluded to the judicial capacity of the noble and learned lord, but not for the purpose of charging him with a corrupt administration of it, but merely to designate him when that noble and learned lord was in Ireland. He had materially differed from that noble and learned lord, in many of his political principles, but he never questioned the purity of his administration of justice. He expressed himself satisfied with what had just fallen from the noble and learned lord, and returned his acknowledgments to their lord-ships for the patient attention with which they had honoured him.The Earl of Donoughmore
684 said that he was confident their lordships would acquit him of any intention at that late hour, and after such a debate as they had heard, of rising to add any thing to the reasoning or observations which had been urged in support of the present motion. He rose for no such purpose. All that ha might have originally intended to have urged that night had been so completely forestalled by the most convincing and eloquent speech of his noble friend who had opened the debate, and by those noble lords who followed on the same side, that there was nothing new left to him, but to re-assert his entire concurrence in their sentiments. He differed from the observations of the noble lord on the woolsack, respecting the Revolution. He denied that the principle of that glorious event was one of mere exclusion, on the ground of religious jealousies, or establishing upon any such narrow ground the connection between church and state; the grand principle was equal rights and privileges to all their fellow subjects. Mr. Pitt's name and authority had been resorted to frequently in the course of the debate; he thought that some of he noble lords who had appeared most anxious to support the memory of their deceased friend, had not been very happy in their manner of doing so. One noble lord had slated, that the public motive generally assigned for Mr. Pitt's
684Earl Grey
 congratulated himself and the House upon the promptand ingenuous explanation of the noble and learned lord. He had no doubt that his noble friend in his reply would "meet it with corresponding good will.—The cry for question then becoming general,Earl Grey
674 expressed his satisfaction, that the noble earl who had just sat down had shewn himself a warm and anxious friend to the sentiments expressed in the petition on their table, though he might differ as to the propriety of the present application. He was happy to find that the noble earl's view differed entirely from that of the noble and learned lord (Redesdale) who delivered his sentiments early in the debate. That noble and learned lord had stated a circumstance which made it necessary for him to trouble the House at present. He had told their lordships that a great statesman, now no more, had not quitted his situation on the grounds upon which the public generally believed he had quitted it, and which he must take the liberty to say, were not only believed by the public, but by those with whom that great man had been several years in office, of whom he unworthily was one. He had been six years connected with that person, and whatever share of his confidence might be enjoyed by the noble and learned lord, he thought it would not be presumption in himself
674Earl Spencer
 explained what he had I said respecting Mr. Pitt's opinions, and mentioned that Mr. Pitt, in conversation on this subject, admitted the difficulties to be so numerous, that he did not see how to provide the means of accomplishing his object.Lord Redesdale
685 thanked the noble earl for the handsome manner of his interposition, He had certainly imagined that the noble earl who opened the debate had made a strong allusion to the discharge of his judicial duties, when in a judicial station in Ireland; but when, in answering that supposed charge, he had said that many of the Irish Catholics themselves could prove it to be false and unjust, nothing was more distant from his intention than to impute to the noble earl any design of knowingly preferring against
685Lord Redesdale
665 adverted to an accusation which had been thrown out against him of partiality in the administration of justice while in office in Ireland; an accusation which he said was most unfounded and unjust. He maintained that no man had ever administered justice more impartially, whether the parties were Catholics or Protestants, than himself. With regard to the general question, it had been brought forward merely for political purposes; and he was persuaded that the great body of the Catholics were not disposed to agitate a question where they could not hope to succeed. The noble lord who opened the debate had averted to the treaty of Limerick. That treaty was made subject to the confirmation of parliament, which had confirmed it merely as far as it had thought proper. But it had been infringed by the other side; for one great object was to keep the army in the country, and yet it went abroad and served the enemy. He denied that the minister could have given any pledge to the Catholics that these claims should be granted. No minister could pledge himself to procure the sanction of parliament. Indeed he heard that the very reverse had been stated; that a reverend gentleman had put the question while the measure of the Union was in agitation, Whether it was intended to remove the disabilities of the Catholics? and that the answer was, That there was no such intention; that lord Farnham had made a speech in the House of Lords in Ireland against the Union, arguing that if it was agreed to, the disabilities never would be removed, as the English would never accede to such a measure, and that the noble lord himself published this speech and circulated it all over Ireland. The great statesman who retired in 1801, did not assign to him (lord Redesdale) as the reason for that proceeding, the impossibility of fulfilling a pledge to the Catholics; and as to the plan of security, he had only to state that the person to whom he alluded had declared to him, a few months before his death, that he had no plan, and that he could conceive no plan whatever, by which a sufficient security could be provided for the established church, in the event of the Catholic claims being granted. The constitution was essentially Protestant; it could not bear a Catholic sovereign, and how much less a Catholic minister? He would not say that
665Lord Redesdale
 corroborated the statement of earl Spencer respecting the reasons assigned by Mr. Pitt for his resignation. He also stated, that no specific pledge had been given at the Union.Earl Camden
672 said, he did not rise for the purpose of answering the speech of the right reverend Prelate, but to state the ground upon which he should resist the motion for going into the Committee. He must always be of opinion, that so long as the Catholics acknowledged a foreign supremacy in spiritual matters, it would not be possible to allow them to make laws for the people, or to have a share in administering the government of this country; nor could he agree with the noble marquis (Lansdowne) who had spoken with his usual ability, that by the quiet submission of the Catholics for the last ten years under the rejection of their claims, they had substantially removed any of the objections, or established additional argument for the accomplishment of the object of their Petition. It might as well be urged, that the advocates for the wildest notions of Parliamentary Reform, universal representation for instance, should ultimately prevail provided the occasional failure of their efforts to carry it in parliament should not be followed by the disturbance of the public tranquillity. His lordship then proceeded to draw the attention of the House to the doctrines and principles which had recently been promulgated upon the subject of religious liberty, and Catholic rights, which he described as of an alarming and dangerous tendency. Without entering further into that subject his lordship said he would observe, that if the rights asserted, existed now, they must always have existed, and every man who had forfeited his property on account of his religious tenets, had in that case been unjustly dispossessed; that even the right of the House of Brunswick to the throne would be shaken to its foundation by such a doctrine, for that right rested upon a principle in contradiction to this assumed religious right, and was incompatible with it.—Lord Buckinghamshire could not, with the right reverend prelate, look at the conduct of foreign governments as affording
672The Earl of Buckinghamshire
676 rose, and with considerable animation said, that he felt the call on the friends of Mr. Pitt in that House irresistible. The substance of what the noble and learned lord had said was, that he was satisfied that other causes than those which Mr. Pitt had himself assigned publicly produced his resignation. Now, he would appeal to all, not only to those who like himself were attached to that person by the ties of friendship and of blood; to those who were attached to him by long official connection, and friendly intercourse; but also to those present who differed with him through almost all his political life, whether he had left that character behind him, which could give credit to an imputation, that in that awful moment of our public affairs he deserted his duty to his king, to his country, and to the whole civilized world, on motives different from those of which he had distinctly made the public avowal? That illustrious character was now dead, and in-capable of repelling the charge. The noble lord, though he felt himself inadequate to do it as he wished, yet conceived it his duty to attempt it. He left it to any man, particularly to the friends of that great statesman, to say, what other reason they had ever heard him assign. The mind of his departed friend was peculiarly undisguised; he had lived with him not only in daily intercourse of business, but in exchange of private friendship; and he could have no possible suspicion of any other grounds of retirement than those agreed on between Mr. Pitt and himself, and which they had so stated to the two Houses of Parliament, namely that they found themselves unable to propose to parliament, with the sanction of government, a measure of great benefit, and indispensable duty; more particularly so at that important period. It was not merely the general question that they were then to bring forward, but the great object, was, the taking the time in all re-
676Lord Grenville
711 contended that the Bill would, in its operation, be ruinous to the English and Scots distiller, by giving a decided preference in the market to the Irish distiller. He wanted nothing but a fair intercourse, that neither might have the advantage of the other; but under the present Bill the Irish distiller would have the means of bearing down all competition in the English market, by the undue advantage given to him in importing hither his spirit. Either under these circumstances, the intercourse ought to be altogether prohibited or else the Irish distiller
711The Earl of Lauderdale
712ll addressed their lordships at considerable length on a variety of topics which he conceived more or less connected with the subject of this Bill. He considered the measure as one of great importance, and that those who brought it forward had acted very laudably; but he conceived some explanation respecting the measure was still necessary. He understood that an immense sum, not less than 250,000712llThe Earl of Suffolk
714713 observed, that he should deem it an inexcusable waste of their lordships' time, if he were to occupy any of it in answering what very little tell from the noble earl, that bad the east reference to the measure under consideration. But not a little of what fell from him (though totally irrevalent to the Bill) was of such a character and tendency, as
714713The Lord Chancellor
 shortly spoke in explanation. What fell from the noble and learned lord was far from satisfying his mind as to the subject he chiefly adverted to; and, as to the bill produced, their lordships must think it extravagantly long, when they heard that the proceeds of the prize to which it referred were 8,000 crowns, and the proctor's bill on the occasion amounted to 6,800.The Earl of Suffolk
 shortly alluded to the total irrelevancy of almost all that fell from the noble earl, to a Bill which solely related to the better regulation of army prize-money.The Earl of Liverpool
 could not consent to the introduction of any provision into the Bill for not allowing the Irish distillers to export without appropriating distilleries solely for that purpose, as that would, under the circumstances he had already mentioned, amount to a prohibition of the intercourse.Earl Bathurst
 stated, that the object in framing the Bill had been to give every security to the English and Scots distiller, and that therefore it was directed that the Irish distiller should warehouse his spirits intended for exportation, the quantity and strength being first ascertained: and the quantity and strength on exportation, and being imported into this country, being also ascertained, in order to prevent fraud. He was aware that from these warehouses a part of the spirit might be withdrawn for home consumption, and replaced by other spirit; but to prevent this was impossible, without indirectly prohibiting the intercourse altogether. It was suggested that the Irish distillers should have distilleries appropriated only for exportation, but as this Bill was only a temporary measure, it could not be expected that they would incur the expence of having distilleries appropriated only for that purpose, and therefore to make such a provision, would in fact amount to a prohibition of the intercourse.Earl Bathurst
 followed up the observations of his noble friend on the woolsack. He was confident, he said, there existed in the country a settled scheme, which was actively persevered in, to bring the administration of justice into disrepute; and as to the delay, or temporary failure of the remedial measure, it was by no means attributable to that House, still less to his Majesty's government; but it was attributable to the friends of the noble earl himself. His lordship then entered into an exposition of the plans proposed, and which, he believed, the noble earl must be unacquainted with: and into a detailed discussion of the causes of those unavoidable delays in the transactions of the judicial business of the country, but particularly in the court of chancery, and in their lordship's House, and which were by no means the fault of those who were entrusted with the administration of justice, but solely to be attributed to the machinery employed not being rendered sufficiently strong or extensive to meet the increased weight and extent of the business to be disposed of.Lord Redesdale
715 vindicated the conduct of the Appeal Courts; the business of
715Earl Camden
 deprecated that system of vile abuse against the ruler of France, which appeared to have been adopted by the paper alluded to. Let his oppressions and acts of aggression, be stated in the language which belonged to them, without descending to vile personal abuse. He also was desirous that with regard to the charges alluded to, he should not have been understood to have expressed any opinions as to their accuracy.Marquis Wellesley
 suggested the propriety of laying the paper on the table. It had been published in the heart of the metropolis, and the tendency of it must be generally reprobated. His grace thought it ought to be burnt by the hands of the common hangman.The Duke of Norfolk
 said, that the laying of the paper on the table would be giving to it greater consequence and circulation. He disavowed any knowledge, on the part of ministers, of this subject, and repeated his general agreement with the opinions of the noble earl.Marquis Wellesley
 observed, that he could truly say, that the paper in question was never seen by him till it was communicated to him by the noble earl opposite. He fully coincided with that noble lord in thinking that such doctrines could not be too strongly reprobated, and that the atrocity of the sentiments could only be equalled by their absurdity. A doctrine more horrid in all respects he could not conceive, and he disavowed it, not only as a minister of the crown, but as a man of common sense. This writer bad said, that the ruler of France had placed himself above all law; but the noble marquis trusted that there still remained a tribunal before which he would be compelled to answer even in this world. The nations of Europe might still call him to account, not by the poniard or the stilletto, but by calling forth all their energies, and punishing him in the field for those acts of perfidious aggression, by which his name would ever be rendered odious. Upon that point, he doubted not, the noble earl would concur with his Majesty's government. It was as lamentable that such a production should have issued from a British press, and he was sorry it had escaped his attention. He would only add, that there was no way in which government could take an opportunity of reprobating such doctrine that they would not adopt, and if possible bring the author of it to condign punishment.Marquis Wellesley
 thought that the three shilling tokens being so near in value to half crowns would be scarcely distinguishable from them, and that some confusion would thence arise.The Duke of Norfolk
 was perfectly satisfied with what had fallen from the noble marquis, and was only desirous that he might not be supposed to have staled any belief in the charges made in the publication alluded to, against the ruler of France, several of which he was convinced were false.Earl Grey
739 rose to call the attention of their lordships to a publication which had been put into his hands, the atrocious nature of which no words he was master of could adequately describe. He found it in a French paper, published in this country, and which he understood had considerable circulation on the continent. The passage he more particularly alluded to purported to be an extract from a weekly publication, entitled the Anti-Gallican Monitor, and written by a Mr. Louis Goldsmidt, which had never fallen into his hands. It was upon the tenor and tendency of that extract which he now wished to animadvert. The noble earl then read the passage, in which were enumerated the murders said to be committed by Buonaparté, from that of the duke D'Enghein down to the murder of captain Wright. It described the ruler of France as resorting to every means, however horrible, of getting rid of those who were obnoxious to him: he used the dagger in private, as well as the sword in the field: it was in vain to contend with such a man with any but his own weapons: we ought therefore to instigate the individuals of every country to retort his own weapons upon him, and to try the dagger, if by no other means the world could be delivered from him. Here, said the noble earl, was a direct exhortation, an open incitement to Assassination. And what opinion must all Europe have of the character of the British government and of the British nation, could it be imagined that such sentiments were countenanced here in any shape? Sure he was, that he Majesty's ministers coincided with him in the feelings of horror and detestation with which they would read such doctrines. It was under this conviction that he thus called their attention, and that of their lordships, to the infamous nature of such a publication, that they might have an opportunity, not only of disavowing such sentiments, but of expressing their
739Earl Grey
741No. 49 Berner's-st. June 22, 1811. made several observation on the scarcity of gold, and suggested a remedy for the inconveniencies arising from the want of a legal tender, stated in the following Letter from his lordship to the Lord Chancellor, which the noble earl read as part of his speech:—
741No. 49 Berner's-st. June 22, 1811.Earl Stanhope
 stated, that these tokens were rendered wholly different in their appearance from half crowns, and might be easily distinguished from them.Earl Bathurst
766765 gave the noble, mover ample credit for the purity and, correctness of his motives in coming for ward on the present occasion. He agreed with him as to the great importance of the subject, which was one which merited the serious attention of the legislature; and the arguments of the noble earl certainly carried great weight with them. At the very late period of the session, however, just on the eve of its close, and
766765The Earl of Liverpool
 said that, with respect to the case of the noble lord, who, it was said, insisted upon payment of his present rents in specie, he would call to the recollection of the House, that some months since he had positively stated that such a practice obtained in Ireland; and since that period numerous were the anonymous letters he had received, informing him that various instances of the kind occurred in that country. He was not decided as to the propriety of pressing such a Bill at this period of the session. It should be printed, and an opportunity of general consideration afforded as to the nature of the remedy proposed. A mode of proceeding which the noble secretary of state admitted to be the best, under the present circumstances. He must oppose the principle that it was preferable to rely on the discretion of individuals in a concern of such vital importance, than on a positive law of the land. It was not to the conduct of individuals, but to the protection of parliament that the people should lock; and it was incumbent on the legislature to take the subject into its most serious consideration, at the earliest proper opportunity.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that what had been just stated by the noble lord did not apply to the South of Ireland, as there was not any instance in that part.; of the country of a landlord making such a demand.The Earl of Limerick
 said, he had not alluded to the South but to the North of Ireland.The Earl of Lauderdale
 was anxious to know what part of the North of Ireland, as in the province of Ulster Bank notes were refused to be taken as early as the passing of the Bank restriction bill; and as they came gradually into circulation, they were taken in payment in many in stances at a discount, but that practice was rapidly declining.The Earl of Clancarty
l767 was aware of the practice to which the noble lord alluded, but he also knew an instance, which he had formerly stated, where a landlord called upon his tenants to pay in gold, and the latter having represented to the steward the impossibility of procuring gold, they were each told that there were 100 guineas at a chandler's shop in the neighbourhood which might be purchased; and it was a fact, that with those
l767The Earl of Lauderdale
 was very desirous of knowing who the party was to whom this circumstance referred. His lordship then observed upon the black malignity which must have actuated the individual who had been referred to in the early part of the debate, as having demanded payment of his rents in gold, or that he would only take Bank notes at a depreciated rate.The Earl of Clancarty
 objected strongly to the term black malignity, contending that the noble lord alluded to might have been actuated by the purest patriotism, in determining to force upon the government the consideration of the situation of the country, to which his Majesty's ministers seemed determined to shut their eyes.The Earl of Lauderdale
 was of opinion that the subject merited the serious attention of the House. He thought, however, in the proceedings on the present occasion, they ought to be guided by circumstances, and not come to any hasty decision as to the Bill.Earl Grosvenor
lll768 was not prepared to give any opinion as to the expediency of adopting the measure proposed by the noble earl, but he felt called upon to say, that in proposing that measure, the noble earl could be actuated only by a sense of the public good, and that therefore, under all the circumstances of the times, he thought the noble earl entitled to the thanks of that House, and of every well-wisher to the prosperity of the country for having thus brought the subject forward for their lordships' consideration. It was far from being a question to which he would very readily assent, to make a bank "note a legal tender. The ordinary objections against it had much weight in his mind, such as that they were liable to be fictitious, &c. &c.; but in other respects he did not conceive that such a case as that adduced by the noble earl could of itself be sufficient to authorise such an interference of the legislature. The case, however, in itself, called for very serious consideration, though he had, in the good sense and patriotic spirit of the country, a sufficient guarantee that it would not be followed to any extent. Besides, as the law already existed, he thought that the property of the tenantry was sufficiently secured, and it might be unwise to enact new laws on that head until circumstances
lll768The Lord Chancellor
lll complained that he had been grossly misrepresented by the noble and learned lord. When he said that such a determination might have been resorted to by any individual from motives of pure patriotism, his meaning was, that such an individual might run the risk of incurring odium and unpopularity for having adopted such a resolution, though he might have taken it up merely with a view to make ministers feel the magnitude of the evils, which by a false and fatal measure, they had inflicted on the country; which evils, there was every reason to dread, would every day become more aggravated. In this view of the question, whoever acted upon such, motives might fairly be said to have been influenced by pure patriotism in taking such a resolution, and it was in that view only of the case, in which he conceived that such conduct might have been suggested by such motives. As to the case of the coachmaker, it was pretty well understood that tradesmen now acted with reference to the present circumstances of Bank paper, and that when they gave in a bill they would keep that circumstance in their eye; and perhaps in the case of the coach maker, the bill would have been 120lllThe Earl of Lauderdale
slsll in explanation, supposed, that in 1801 he had contracted with his coach-maker to furnish him with a coach in 1811, for 100slsllThe Lord Chancellor,
770 in reply, thanked both sides of the House for the fair interpretation which they had put upon his motion, and upon the motives which had induced him to bring it forward. He could assure them that they had done him no more than justice. His only wish was, to give an opportunity to his Majesty's government of providing against a feeling, the evil consequences of which he most seriously dreaded. The present alarm respecting the depreciation of Bank paper arose, like most alarms, from false fears and ungrounded prejudices. There might soon, perhaps, be no gold in the country; and he would say, so much the better. All the mischief of the present moment arose from falsely considering gold as the proper or only circulating medium. On this subject, he much admired an observation of sir George Saville's, an observation most just and philosophical. In a conversation on the subject of a circulating medium, he recollected that good and wise man to have observed, that the circulating medium was the measure of the relative value of things. For example, that ten pound notes would purchase to that amount a certain number of guineas, a certain nunmber of loaves, or of Opera tickets, or the travelling a certain number of miles; and, that thus the price of every necessary, or enjoyment, might be regulated by the value of a Bank note. If the same rule did not exist now, it was from prejudice and idle fears; and he would again repeat that it was to be wished there were no gold in the country. As to the measure he had the honour of proposing, it was simple and intelligible, and applicable to the circumstances of the moment, and if it were not adopted by ministers, on them would lie the responsibility
770Earl Stanhope,
s764lsl.763ll pursuant to notice, rose to introduce a Bill upon the subject which he had mentioned, and on which their lordships were summoned that day. The subject to which his Bill referred was of the most material importance to all classes and descriptions of people in the country He was aware of the objection which would lie as to the late period of the session; but that was not an insuperable one. He had lost no time in coming forward. He saw a letter yesterday the contents of which surprised him not a little. In consequence of this, he repaired to some of the most eminent bankers, and also to some lawyers—two classes of men whom he thought the most likely to advise him well upon the subject. He had the satisfaction to find, that those among the bankers whom he had consulted, were of opinion, that something was necessary to be done in consequence; and farther, that what he proposed were the most proper measures to be adopted. He then came down to this House, in order to consult with some members upon the subject. He did not wish to mention any names in what he was about to refer to, as he did not wish to make a charge against any person. He had received information, the substance of which was, that a person of large landed property in the country, from some motives or other, had given notice to certain of his tenants to pay him their rents, now due, at Midsummer, in gold; but he further heard, that this person had either insinuated or expressed, that if he should take Bank notes in such payment, he should only take them at the rate of 16 shillings in the pound! But if it were for 19 shillings and sixpence, or any deterioration or depreciation, it could not be of much importance with respect to the principle. What might be the consequence of such a procedure? In the first place, it would be a gross injustice towards the tenants. Suppose one of these owed him 400s764lsl.763llEarl stanhope,
772771 at considerable length, addressed their lordships upon the merits of the present claim. He professed to feel that sentiment which had generally actuated the consideration of the Committee. From the bottom of his soul he could say, that he had from the first entertained a wish that lady Berkeley might be enabled to shew the right of the present claimant. But he requested that their lordships would keep the subject of this title abstractedly considered, and putting from their minds other feelings and sentiments which had mixed themselves with the inquiry, and which had been pressed upon their attention, that they would look to the title itself and the evidence that had been adduced in support of that title. He wished them to consider most attentively the Act of Marriage, 26 Geo. 2, s. 33, by which it was required that the marriage should take place after licence obtained, or bans published, and that the marriage should, after the usual solemnization, be duly registered. He had no doubt their lordships would agree with him, that, if licences were not obtained, nor bans published, according to the direction of that act of Parliament, the marriage afterwards would be null and void. God forbid he should, in saying this, be understood to declare, that for want of a precise compliance with that statute, the marriage would be null! If, from the conduct of the parties before and afterwards—if, from their mode of living and demeanor, as husband and wife, they
772771The Lord Chancellor,
 argued in favour of the Amendment. He saw no reason why the inhabitants of the Isle of Man should be excluded from the legislative benevolence of the empire: and why the unfortunate persons confined for debt in that island should not participate in the benefits of the act. As to the objection that it was not usual for parliament to legislate for that island, he begged leave to recall to the noble and learned lord's recollection, that there were numerous acts, in which that country was included; and he deprecated any alterations, which now, just at the close of the session, might prove fatal to the Bill.Lord Holland
 expressed his wish to postpone his motion for the second reading of his Gold Coin Bill, which stood for this day, till to-morrow, and his reason for doing so, he would freely stale to their lordships. He had staled in the outset, that a certain great landholder intended to require the rents recently due to him to be paid in gold. He had mentioned no names, but it since turned out that the landholder he alluded to was a member of that House, and from whom he had received a letter, expressing his desire, that the motion might be postponed till to-morrow; he therefore thought it only justice to do so. His lordship then moved to renew the order for summoning their lordships on the above motion for to-morrow, which was ordered accordingly.Earl Stanhope
774 explained, that the acts alluded to by the noble baron did not relate to the internal affairs of the Isle of Man; they only went to legislate externally. He also observed, that the present Bill was understood to be only a temporary remedy, and to be, in every respect, like the act of the last year.774Lord Redesdale
 strongly objected to the Amendment which went to extend the operation of the act to the Isle of Man. That country was particularly circumstanced, and subject to its own laws in those respects, which were regulated by its legislature, the House of Keys. Besides, he understood the principle of the Cessio Bonorum prevailed in the Isle of Man, nearly under the same regulations as in Scotland; and he reminded their lordships that the Bill he had the honour to name, and to introduce, including such a regulation, was not ultimately countenanced by their lordships. The Amendment, under the circumstances, struck him as so objectionable, that he must beg leave to oppose it.Lord Redesdale
783 then made some observations upon the nature of the proceedings and evidence adduced before the Committee of Privileges, and conclude by moving, That the Report of their lord ships' Committee, together with a copy of the Evidence given in the said case, be
783The Lord Chancellor
 agreed in the propriety of this suggestion, and expressed his opinion, that his noble friend on the Woolsack, in wording his motion, had no idea whatever of pointing out any particular line to his royal highness, but wished merely that the matter should be left entirely to the royal discretion.The Earl of Liverpool
 corroborated what fell from his noble friend, as to his intention with respect to the object and effect of the motion he proposed.The Lord Chancellor
784 rose to make two motions on this subject; previous to which he adverted to what he had said before on the subject, and defended most of the observations he then made respecting Greenwich Hospital. He would never submit to be charged with mockery and mummery, for shewing the enormity of a Proctor's Bill. He had been told that it was not the clerk's business to assist him in unrolling that long bill; but he considered the clerk as the servant of their lordships generally, and not solely of the noble and learned lord on the woolsack.—The noble earl went through a variety of particulars respecting the general subject, and appealed to a memorial sent eleven years ago, by Sir Alexander Cochrane, complaining of the practice of employing one sole proctor in causes and frequently in appeals. The Appeals in that House, in 1810, were two hundred
784The Earl of Suffolk
817816815 was perfectly ready to profess that he was not much acquainted with the doctrines respecting the circulating medium, much less so than many others of their lordships; but as far as he understood the subject at all, he assented to the doctrines of his noble friend (lord King); and this, together with the manner in which his noble friend had been attacked, both in and out of doors, made him anxious to deliver his opinion, and to share with his noble friend the obloquy and clamour that had been so loudly raised against him. He had no hesitation in saving, that if this measure passed, it must be only the first of a series of bills more daring than any this country ever saw, in order to attain an object which no government had a right to accomplish, and which, in reality, no government could effect. The noble earl who spoke last had gone so far as to assert, that the demand made by his noble friend was unjust towards his tenants, and mischievous to the country. On the contrary, he would maintain, that should it appear, as he had no doubt it would, that his noble friend was only dealing fairly for the interests of his own family, acting according to the laws of the land, and in consonance to his own rights, even though his conduct should be hostile to the system pursued by government; all that would only prove that their system was a had one, and the sooner it was done away with the better. Instead of exciting a clamour against the conduct of his noble friend, should it not rather be received as a warning, that it was high time for government to retrace its steps, and if possible correct the evil before it was beyond the reach of remedy The whole matter might be resolved into this short argument. Bank notes were either depreciated, or they were not; if there was no depreciation, then his noble friend's demand could do no harm, and gold could, of course, be obtained; if there was a depreciation, then he must contend that his noble friend was giving the country a warning in time, by which they might profit." Lay not this flattering unction to your souls," as if the present system could go on much longer. Were this Bill carried, recourse must be had to the principle of a maximum, and all the other measured which originated in France from the law
817816815Lord Holland
818 observed, that all the arguments of the noble lord who had just sat down rested on this foundation alone, that the paper currency was depreciated. Now, that was the very question to be decided; and there was one argument which, to his mind, was decisive, that no depreciation had taken place. The value of any useful article could only be depreciated by too great abundance. There was every reason to believe that the amount of notes of the Bank of England now in circulation did not exceed the mass of circulating medium compounded of notes and gold in 1798. Was a less quanitity of currency required now than in 1798 to conduct the mercantile transactions of the country? Surely not; our domestic transactions had, on the contrary, greatly increased, and therefore there could not be a superabundance of the circulating medium, which could be the only cause of its depreciation, particularly as nobody doubted the credit of the Bank. The question was, whether a remedy should
818The Earl of Rosse
821820819 regarded the present subject to be paramount to all others in point of importance; and the magnitude of the question was such as would render it criminal in ministers to dismiss parliament at present, without coming to some determination upon it. The noble lord who spoke last had asserted broadly, that the paper was not depreciated, because the issues of the Bank" were not greater than the compound mass of gold and paper in circulation in 1798. But were the notes of the Bank of England
821820819The Earl of Lauderdale
792791*** rose and said:792791***Lord King
830829 observed, that the question before their lordships had been argued with a view to the ulterior measures which the noble earl who brought the present measure forward had in his contemplation. For his own part, he wished, in any thing he should feel it necessary to say upon this Bill, not to be understood to give any opinion or approbation of those ulterior measures. The principle of the Bill under consideration he had certainly approved of; and when first the measure was opened to their lordships, he had declared it to be the best remedy for the evil in the contemplation of the noble mover. And this declaration he had made, founding his opinion upon the principle of the measure of 1797, that it was not desirable to extend the principle of legislation beyond the necessity of the case. He had, however, on that occasion, conceived that it might be better to let the question rest upon the law as it stood, be cause he was then of opinion that the example mentioned by the noble earl would not be generally followed. This opinion of his was not founded upon any impression that he had any right to inquire into the precise degree of public spirit and principle which individuals might be influenced by in the regulation of their private concerns, but because he thought it would not be for the interest of any individuals to follow that example. The interest of landlords and tenants could not be separated, and consequently any act that would bear hard upon the tenant must be injurious to the landlord himself. If the example of the noble lord were to be followed generally, the tenants would indemnify themselves by raising the prices of the articles they brought to market; but if it were not followed generally, the particular tenant would not have the means of indemnifying himself by a rise of prices, and the consequent injury he would suffer would also be felt by the landlord. Though, he had at first thought, that upon the whole it would be better to leave the law as it stood, yet when he attended to the principle of the measure under consideration,
830829The Earl of Liverpool
 briefly explained, and referred to the evidence of Mr. Merle and another, to shew that gold might be had as heretofore.The Earl of Lauderdale
 disclaimed distinctly having ever intended to say, or having ever conceived, that his noble friend could have had any views of interest in the measure.The Earl of Lauderdale
 had no objection to the proceeding recommended by the noble and learned lord generally; but was averse to the introduction of any language in the motion which would appear like an attempt to dictate or point out any particular line of conduct to his royal highness, but to leave such result solely to his discretion, as to what proceeding he might think proper to adopt, if any. He therefore suggested the propriety of omitting the word "request" from the motion, which would then go in effect to simply laying the Report and the Evidence before his royal highness.Earl Grey
790l789ll788l787786785s moved the order of the day for the second reading of this Bill. The Bill being read by the clerk, his lordship said, he was extremely happy to see around him on this occasion several noble lords who were not present before when he brought the matter forward, as it afforded hint an opportunity of explaining the object he had in view by this Bill. But before he told them what the Bill was, he would tell them what it was not. It was not, as it had by some been erroneously supposed to be, a Bill to make Bank-notes a legal tender; and indeed it would be highly improper that such a Bill should pass; because the person who might refuse a Bank-note on the ground of supposing it to be forged, might be by this means brought into an unpleasant dilemma. He would now state what the Bill was, and his reasons for proposing it; and, in the first place, he would examine if his foundation was good, and then explain the nature of the superstructure it was his design to raise upon it. His Bill went simply to this, that it should not be legal to give more than 21790l789ll788l787786785sEarl Stanhope
831 expressed his satisfaction at the explanation given by his noble friend, and added, that he had not conceived it possible for his noble friend to suppose that he could have had any views of interest in bringing such a measure. But when such words struck the ear, they ought to be explained; and he should be extremely sorry that any person who had heard the words should think them applicable to him. He had always been a speculative man, and very little given to views of self-interest. He had always thought, that the man who was in possession of a large property not gained by his own talents and industry, but derived from the mere accident of birth, was in fact but a trustee for the public; and owed it to that public, to return some part of that estate for its benefit. To shew that he could not only preach, but practise, he would say that he had never received a shilling "from the public, and that thou, sands and thousands he had expended for
831Earl Stanhope
 rose to reply. Before he should say any thing upon the subject of the Bill, he must observe, that a noble earl had stated" that he had views of his own ill bringing forward this measure," and he wished for an explanation.Earl Stanhope
814813whole question rests precisely on the inferior value of our paper-money compared with gold; and there fore, as long as any considerable difference exists in reality, it is a manifest absurdity to imagine that payments will be made indifferently in gold and paper, when one currency has been 10, 15, and even 20 percent, less in, value than the gold coin. Let the value of the paper currency be restored to the value of the legal gold coins, and payments will again be made in gold and paper indifferently; let the opposite course be persevered in, and allow the depreciation to become so sensible that gold shall be demanded generally in preference to paper money in satisfaction of old contracts, and in this manner the demand for gold will establish two prices, one for commodities sold for paper, and another for those sold for the gold coins."812"It has sometimes been said, that the total disappearance of gold, and universal substitution of paper in all payments, prove, that it is impossible to procure gold but it must be recollected, that the"If gold is in demand for the payment of contracts, for instance, for the discharge of rent, it will now be necessary for the tenant to require two prices for his produce, one for gold, and another for paper; or he may, if more convenient, dispose of the whole of his produce for the ordinary paper currency, and purchase the weight of standard gold (if gold coin cannot easily be procured) requisite to discharge his rent or bond-debts, according to the spirit of his contracts.have carried with it irresistible conviction; and the legislature has lately interfered to prevent the depreciation from becoming thus palpable and manifest.811"It would have been a much easier and shorter method to have paid the difference of the value of Bank-notes by an addition to the nominal sum equivalent to the depreciation; but this practice would hive exposed the fact to daily view, and wouldsll"The use of the second table is to shew, by inspection, the real quantity of gold which the current paper-money was able to purchase in any given year, that quantity, or the weight of the number of guineas in the 3d column, being, according to the spirit of the contract, the equitable payment of 105slll"Since the establishment of a more regular government acting by general rules in the administration of the national affairs, according to the well understood interests both of the government and people, no sovereign of England, since the reign of Elizabeth, has had recourse to the expedient of making further innovation in the standard of the currency. The legal standard has remained unaltered ever since the time when queen Elizabeth made the last alteration in the silver coinage, and gold has since been made the only legal tender in all payments above 25l"The reformation of the coin (in those times the only circulating medium) seems to have formed no inconsiderable part of the grievances for which parliaments attempted to obtain redress from those sovereigns, who, urged by their necessities, had degraded the coin for the purpose of defrauding their subjects.062——Elizabeth—43d—9.
062——Elizabeth—43d—9.060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8
060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8045——Hen. 8—18th—7.
045——Hen. 8—18th—7.637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.
637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.
030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.
025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.
622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.
222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.
320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.ddss
ddss
062——Elizabeth—43d—9.
062——Elizabeth—43d—9.060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8
060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8045——Hen. 8—18th—7.
045——Hen. 8—18th—7.637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.
637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.
030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.
025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.
622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.
222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.
320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.ddss
ddsstimes; a brief summary of which may be usefully inserted:810"In the earl of Liverpool's Treatise on the Coins, an account is given of the different treasons against the pound sterling which have been committed at differentdsldsl"The pound troy is, by the regulation of the Mint, coined into 44 guineas and a half, of the weight of 5 dwts. 9 3/8 9/9 grs.; but guineas, if not reduced below the weight of 5 dwts. 8grs. continue to be a legal tender. At that weight, viz. 128 grains, the pound troy of 5760 grains is equal in weight to 45 instead of 44½ guineas. Promissory notes and tokens of the Bank of England, to the amount of 46dsldslit required then only 10 quarters 2 bushels and I peck to purchase a pound of gold; which same quantity of gold fourteen years before required no less than 18 quarters of wheat to purchase it. Considering the facts here stated, it is impossible to maintain that the price of gold has increased of late years; on the contrary, there is every reason to believe that a real and sensible diminution in the value of the precious metals has taken place, comparing them with wheat and labour, usually considered as the best criterions and standards of value.809slds"It appears, that any considerable increase of the amount of notes in circulation has an obvious influence in producing an advance of the price of gold, and a correspondent diminution of the real value of the pound note. The average price of wheat for England and Wales, which from 1771 to 1785 was forty-six shillings the quarter, and from 1786 to 1797 was fifty-two shillings, has since that period, in the short space of fourteen years, experienced an advance in price greatly exceeding the advance of the whole preceding century. Before the Bank restriction, and even during the two first years, it required 18 quarters of wheat to purchase one pound weight of standard gold, which was coined into 44 guineas and a half; at subsequent periods it has required only 14 quarters and half a bushel, 12 quarters and 2 bushels, to purchase a pound weight of gold, even at the apparent high price of gold. These calculations are made on the average prices both of corn and gold for five years, and five years, omitting the two years of dearth 1800 and 1801. In the last year, 1810, the average price of wheat was 106slds"It has been said, that no contracts since 1797 could have been expected to be paid in gold. If such contracts stipulate for payment in gold, they are nevertheless binding on the parties, and any modification must be considered as an act of favour and concession. Such contracts ought, on every principle of justice, to be fulfilled according to their spirit and meaning. The restriction act at first was expressly stated to be only temporary; and for ten years, there was no important depreciation: it was not before 1808 that any serious injury was sustained. The hope that the currency would be restored to its former value, might have induced many persons to submit to a loss of five or six per cent.; but are there no limits to the endurance of an injury, and is the patient acquiescence for so long a time to be now urged as a conclusive reason against all future attempts to resist a manifest fraud and public injustice?and not in reality; a payment in good and lawful money, according to the letter, may be a payment of more than was intended by the spirit of the contract.808"The alteration of the intrinsic value of the currency has been so considerable, that it is become necessary, for the just and equitable liquidation of contracts made prior to the depreciation of the currency, or at any time during the progress of that depreciation, to ascertain the real intrinsic value of the common currency in which all contracts have been estimated, at the date of each respective agreement. For this purpose, it must be ascertained what quantity of standard gold any given sum of the common currency was able to command at the date of the agreement; and the payment of the same quantity of gold, or the value of that quantity, will be the equitable fulfilment of the contract, according to the intent and meaning of the parties. A payment in paper-money of inferior value is a payment in name onlySince the restriction on cash payments in 1797, the natural check and safeguard against excessive issues of paper-currency has been removed; and it is confessed, that the Bank has not been guided in regulating the amount of their notes either by the price of gold bullion, or by the state of the foreign exchanges. All paper, not convertible into gold on demand, is in its nature liable to depreciation from excess, and the amount of such depreciation "is measured by the excess of the market-price of bullion above the Mint-price. When the paper-currency is not able to purchase as much gold as it promises to pay, then in proportion to that smaller quantity which it can command at any given time is the depreciation of the paper. Since 1799, gold bullion has progressively advanced in price, in proportion as the real value of the note (by which the gold has been purchased) has declined."For all contracts made before any depreciation had taken place, it will of course require the weight of 100 guineas in standard gold to discharge a demand for 100 guineas; but if, instead of standard bullion, a preference, for the sake of convenience, is given to Portugal gold coins (which, as an article of commerce in demand, are more valuable), an allowance may be made in proportion to their superior price in the market, requiring the weight of 98 guineas in such coin for 100 guineas due." said, notwithstanding the very able manner in which the noble lord who had just sat down had defended his
814813whole question rests precisely on the inferior value of our paper-money compared with gold; and there fore, as long as any considerable difference exists in reality, it is a manifest absurdity to imagine that payments will be made indifferently in gold and paper, when one currency has been 10, 15, and even 20 percent, less in, value than the gold coin. Let the value of the paper currency be restored to the value of the legal gold coins, and payments will again be made in gold and paper indifferently; let the opposite course be persevered in, and allow the depreciation to become so sensible that gold shall be demanded generally in preference to paper money in satisfaction of old contracts, and in this manner the demand for gold will establish two prices, one for commodities sold for paper, and another for those sold for the gold coins."812"It has sometimes been said, that the total disappearance of gold, and universal substitution of paper in all payments, prove, that it is impossible to procure gold but it must be recollected, that the"If gold is in demand for the payment of contracts, for instance, for the discharge of rent, it will now be necessary for the tenant to require two prices for his produce, one for gold, and another for paper; or he may, if more convenient, dispose of the whole of his produce for the ordinary paper currency, and purchase the weight of standard gold (if gold coin cannot easily be procured) requisite to discharge his rent or bond-debts, according to the spirit of his contracts.have carried with it irresistible conviction; and the legislature has lately interfered to prevent the depreciation from becoming thus palpable and manifest.811"It would have been a much easier and shorter method to have paid the difference of the value of Bank-notes by an addition to the nominal sum equivalent to the depreciation; but this practice would hive exposed the fact to daily view, and wouldsll"The use of the second table is to shew, by inspection, the real quantity of gold which the current paper-money was able to purchase in any given year, that quantity, or the weight of the number of guineas in the 3d column, being, according to the spirit of the contract, the equitable payment of 105slll"Since the establishment of a more regular government acting by general rules in the administration of the national affairs, according to the well understood interests both of the government and people, no sovereign of England, since the reign of Elizabeth, has had recourse to the expedient of making further innovation in the standard of the currency. The legal standard has remained unaltered ever since the time when queen Elizabeth made the last alteration in the silver coinage, and gold has since been made the only legal tender in all payments above 25l"The reformation of the coin (in those times the only circulating medium) seems to have formed no inconsiderable part of the grievances for which parliaments attempted to obtain redress from those sovereigns, who, urged by their necessities, had degraded the coin for the purpose of defrauding their subjects.062——Elizabeth—43d—9.
062——Elizabeth—43d—9.060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8
060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8045——Hen. 8—18th—7.
045——Hen. 8—18th—7.637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.
637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.
030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.
025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.
622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.
222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.
320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.ddss
ddss
062——Elizabeth—43d—9.
062——Elizabeth—43d—9.060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8
060——E1izabeth2d year of her reign.8045——Hen. 8—18th—7.
045——Hen. 8—18th—7.637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.
637——Edw. 4.—4th—6.030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.
030——Hen. 4.—13th—5.025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.
025——Edw. 3.—27th—4.622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.
622——Edw. 3.—20th—3.222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.
222——Edw. 3.—18th—2.320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.
320coined 1lb weight of silver intoEdw. 1.In the 28th year of his reign,1.ddss
ddsstimes; a brief summary of which may be usefully inserted:810"In the earl of Liverpool's Treatise on the Coins, an account is given of the different treasons against the pound sterling which have been committed at differentdsldsl"The pound troy is, by the regulation of the Mint, coined into 44 guineas and a half, of the weight of 5 dwts. 9 3/8 9/9 grs.; but guineas, if not reduced below the weight of 5 dwts. 8grs. continue to be a legal tender. At that weight, viz. 128 grains, the pound troy of 5760 grains is equal in weight to 45 instead of 44½ guineas. Promissory notes and tokens of the Bank of England, to the amount of 46dsldslit required then only 10 quarters 2 bushels and I peck to purchase a pound of gold; which same quantity of gold fourteen years before required no less than 18 quarters of wheat to purchase it. Considering the facts here stated, it is impossible to maintain that the price of gold has increased of late years; on the contrary, there is every reason to believe that a real and sensible diminution in the value of the precious metals has taken place, comparing them with wheat and labour, usually considered as the best criterions and standards of value.809slds"It appears, that any considerable increase of the amount of notes in circulation has an obvious influence in producing an advance of the price of gold, and a correspondent diminution of the real value of the pound note. The average price of wheat for England and Wales, which from 1771 to 1785 was forty-six shillings the quarter, and from 1786 to 1797 was fifty-two shillings, has since that period, in the short space of fourteen years, experienced an advance in price greatly exceeding the advance of the whole preceding century. Before the Bank restriction, and even during the two first years, it required 18 quarters of wheat to purchase one pound weight of standard gold, which was coined into 44 guineas and a half; at subsequent periods it has required only 14 quarters and half a bushel, 12 quarters and 2 bushels, to purchase a pound weight of gold, even at the apparent high price of gold. These calculations are made on the average prices both of corn and gold for five years, and five years, omitting the two years of dearth 1800 and 1801. In the last year, 1810, the average price of wheat was 106slds"It has been said, that no contracts since 1797 could have been expected to be paid in gold. If such contracts stipulate for payment in gold, they are nevertheless binding on the parties, and any modification must be considered as an act of favour and concession. Such contracts ought, on every principle of justice, to be fulfilled according to their spirit and meaning. The restriction act at first was expressly stated to be only temporary; and for ten years, there was no important depreciation: it was not before 1808 that any serious injury was sustained. The hope that the currency would be restored to its former value, might have induced many persons to submit to a loss of five or six per cent.; but are there no limits to the endurance of an injury, and is the patient acquiescence for so long a time to be now urged as a conclusive reason against all future attempts to resist a manifest fraud and public injustice?and not in reality; a payment in good and lawful money, according to the letter, may be a payment of more than was intended by the spirit of the contract.808"The alteration of the intrinsic value of the currency has been so considerable, that it is become necessary, for the just and equitable liquidation of contracts made prior to the depreciation of the currency, or at any time during the progress of that depreciation, to ascertain the real intrinsic value of the common currency in which all contracts have been estimated, at the date of each respective agreement. For this purpose, it must be ascertained what quantity of standard gold any given sum of the common currency was able to command at the date of the agreement; and the payment of the same quantity of gold, or the value of that quantity, will be the equitable fulfilment of the contract, according to the intent and meaning of the parties. A payment in paper-money of inferior value is a payment in name onlySince the restriction on cash payments in 1797, the natural check and safeguard against excessive issues of paper-currency has been removed; and it is confessed, that the Bank has not been guided in regulating the amount of their notes either by the price of gold bullion, or by the state of the foreign exchanges. All paper, not convertible into gold on demand, is in its nature liable to depreciation from excess, and the amount of such depreciation "is measured by the excess of the market-price of bullion above the Mint-price. When the paper-currency is not able to purchase as much gold as it promises to pay, then in proportion to that smaller quantity which it can command at any given time is the depreciation of the paper. Since 1799, gold bullion has progressively advanced in price, in proportion as the real value of the note (by which the gold has been purchased) has declined."For all contracts made before any depreciation had taken place, it will of course require the weight of 100 guineas in standard gold to discharge a demand for 100 guineas; but if, instead of standard bullion, a preference, for the sake of convenience, is given to Portugal gold coins (which, as an article of commerce in demand, are more valuable), an allowance may be made in proportion to their superior price in the market, requiring the weight of 98 guineas in such coin for 100 guineas due."Earl Bathurst
 said, if every landlord in the country were to insist on his tenants paying their rent in gold, they might very soon come to the point of asking two hundred for one, because for the tenants to obtain gold would be impossible. The noble lord said, that the statute of Edward 6 applied only to gold and silver, and not to any other circulating medium. If the noble earl persisted in the present Bill, and it should be adopted, it might be necessary to introduce the words of that statute, and make them applicable to paper. The act of parliament, which in 1797 laid the restriction on the Bank, made paper the same as gold, with respect to debts and public credit; and, whether the legislature were right or wrong in that measure, he thought that having said so, it how became the duty of parliament to protect the people in what had been done. Coin had been some how or other driven from the country; and if tenants could not get gold to pay their rents, they must be protected from being forced out of their farms, for not being able to effect impossibilities. The plan proposed by the Bill was, that bank-notes should be protected from depreciation, as gold was by the statute of Edward 6, that no man shall be compelled to take such notes; but if they did take them, it should not be for less than a pound. He did not think the words of the Bill would have that effect; yet the state of things required that some provision should be made against the existing difficulties and inconveniences, and he should therefore give his support to the Bill.Lord Redesdale
828ds827826825824823822 rose and said: My Lords, in addressing you on this occasion, it is painful to me to observe, that I cannot remember in the course of my life to have ever seen the ministers of this country placed
828ds827826825824823822Lord Grenville
834833 said, as it was probable he might not be able to attend the future stages of the Bill, he wished to say a few words now upon this very important subject. The object of the Bill which his noble friend had proposed, though not absolutely to make the notes of the Bank of England a legal tender, yet went near to that point, inasmuch as it made it compulsory to receive them, and he trusted their lordships would pause before they sanctioned a principle, by acting upon which so much mischief had been produced in other countries, when they had no security against the recurrence of similar mischiefs in this country, flowing from the adoption of the same principles, and when they had no proof that such a measure would be beneficial here, which had only been mischievous elsewhere. He understood that the amendments to the Bill, which it was intended to propose by noble Lords on the other side, would have all the effect of making the notes of the Bank of England a legal tender. His noble friend had, he thought, on a former evening, taken an erroneous view of the subject, when he stated, that the only objection to making Bank-notes a legal tender, was the impossibility of discovering whether or not they were forged. The objection to making a paper currency a legal tender was, that there was no security against an excessive issue, and therefore no security against depreciation. If horses were made a legal tender it was known that they could not be bred beyond a certain number; if wool was made a legal tender it was known that it could not, be grown beyond a certain amount, but if paper were made a legal tender, there was no limit to its issue, and no one could tell to what amount it might be issued. Where was the security to be found? they would be investing the directors of the Bank of England with a power of increasing to any amount the currency of the country, with a power which they had never en-
834833The Marquis of Lansdowne
841, in defence of ministers, said that this subject had not been introduced by them. They were at first averse to the Bill, because they saw no necessity for it, but if it was found that there really was an evil to remedy they must remedy it. The noble lord who had given the notice to his tenants, it was said, had been hardly used, and his patriotism and great merits had been extolled; but when it was found that patriotism and private interest were so closely linked together, ministers naturally began think that there might possibly be a great many patriots; that many might lake up the principle, and while they demanded their rents in specie, or in paper 10 or 20 percent, below par, would hate no scruple in paying their debts with this paper at par. When this cry of patriotism was raised, no one could say how far it might lead; no one could tell how far those who partook of the noble lord's sentiments might be disposed to follow his example. As the noble lord had not given this notice till near the prorogation, it became ministers to consider what effect such patriotism might have during the recess—it became them, as far as they could, to prevent the oppression of tenants by such patriotic landlords.—The noble earl then proceeded to argue against the existence of the depreciation. For every legal purpose Bank notes still retained their relative value to gold. Gold in coin and Bank notes had a relative value fixed by low, and this could not be altered without violating the law, by melting and exporting the coin. The melting and exporting of coin was illegal, and therefore by law and for every legal purpose, there was no depreciation. The noble lord on the other side had said, that the dearness of all commodities was a proof of depreciation; but the rise in price, he maintained, might be accounted for on the ordinary principle of supply and demand. Colonial produce, and goods the produce of this country, which could not find their way to a foreign country, were cheap, while timber and other things, which from the present state of the continent could not be easily procured, were dear. Timber and cotton had risen 30 or 40 percent, according to the state of the demand, a thing not to be accounted for from this magic operation of a depreciated paper. But the cause of this depreciation, they said, was the excess of the circulation. He denied that there was any such excess.
841The Earl of Westmoreland
843842 was anxious to see how the Bill could be amended in the Committee, but he could conceive no amendment that would make it a proper measure. That proposed by his noble friend was plausible, but he was satisfied it would have no extensively good effect. The restriction of the Bank of England issues might not prevent the excessive issues of paper by private banks, and the evil might still go on increasing. There was, he believed, no remedy but payments in cash. As to the assertion, that those who thought with him were theorists, and that the opinions of practical men were against them, he had to observe, that their opinions were to be estimated by the cir-
843842The Earl of Lauderdale
, alluding to what had fallen from the noble earl on a former night, said, if the notes of the Bank of England were depreciated, and those of the Bank of Scotland were not, how did it happen that the rate of exchange was not turned against England, which was not the case? It was agreed, that if the notes of the Bank of England alone were taken into consideration, there was no depreciation; and that the depreciation only arose from the country Bank-notes. It was, therefore, at any time in the power of the House to apply a remedy, by limiting the issue of country Bank-notes. Supposing, therefore, that the Bank-restriction act had never taken place, the country might still have been in the same situation from the excess of country Bank-notes.The Earl of Rosse
844 rose to put himself right with the House He contended that he was accurate as to what he had said relative to Scotland, and that there the Banks were liable to pay in specie, in the same manner as they were previous to the year 1797. So much as to matter of fact, there being no clause in the Bank Restriction. Bill, which could be construed to extend to the Bank of Scotland. As to the question, how it was to be accounted for, that no depreciation of the rate of exchange had thus been produced against England, he could only suppose this to have proceeded from the circumstance, that no landlord had made a demand of payment in gold till this year.
844The Earl of Lauderdale
 said he was satisfied that in framing the act of the year 1797, an omission had occurred, purely from inadvertency, in the clause protecting persons from arrest where a tender of the debt was made in notes of the Bank of England. He had no doubt it was fully meant that this should extend to distresses for rent also. As the law now stood, though no arrest could take place where a tender of the debt was made in bank-notes, still the party might refuse to accept of it, and might proceed in his action. This he meant now to extend to cases of distress for rent; and to provide that, though in such circumstances, the summary process must stop where a tender in bank-notes was made, still the landlord might go on with his legal remedy, if he chose it, till he should see how far that would avail him.—The clause being put, was agreed to.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought that some limit should be put to the issues of paper by the Bank. He therefore proposed a clause, limiting the future issues of the Bank to the sum to which they should be found to amount on the 1st of July 1811.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 saw no evidence of any excessive issue, and thought that to specify a limit might produce inconvenience. The issues of the Bank had been encreased last year, in consequence of the failures of a number of country Banks; when the evils thereby felt, however, were done away, the issues of the Bank were reduced, and in February of the present.; year were under their necessary amount. To make the extent of the present issue, therefore, a criterion from which to judge of what might be the proper amount, would be by no means expedient. For the purpose of guarding the public, however, as much as possible, he should propose a clause, limiting the endurance of the pre, sent Bill to the 25th March, 1812 so that, if it was renewed, it might at an, early period become the subject of parliamentary inquiry.The Earl of Liverpool
 conceived that the clause should at least be introduced into the Bill, to allow the House to judge of it as well as of the other provisions of the Bill, when it should be printed in its amended state.Lord Holland
 said, he should move that the Bill be recommitted, that it be printed as amended, and that a day be then appointed for taking it into consideration.The Earl of Liverpool
 still submitted that this clause was as well entitled to full consideration as any other clause that might be introduced into the Bill could be The question on this clause Was then put and negatived.Lord Holland
 moved a clause, limiting the endurance of the Bill to the 25th of March 1812, which was agreed to and the report ordered to be received tomorrow.The Earl of Liverpool
, in allusion to the observation, that the noble lord did not know what mathematicians he had to deal with, replied, that he could not conceive a standard without length, breadth or thickness.Earl Grey
839l838837 had no intention, when he entered the House, of troubling their lordships with a word upon the subject; He could not, however, avoid taking notice of some observations which had just been made by his noble friend. A new system had, it seemed, now been introduced, under which noble lords, members of that House, were to be called upon, not only to answer for their public Conduct, but for their private conduct, for conduct which they, in their private concerns, had deem-
839l838837Earl Grey
, in explanation, said, that there was no such thing in this country as a measure founded on a quantity of bullion of standard fineness. The legal coin was the money with the stamp upon it. The stamp was what made it the lawful coin, not to be melted nor transported, and not the weight and fineness. He did not know what mathematicians he had to deal with, but if Bank notes and gold bore a fixed proportionable ratio to the pound sterling, by law, they were equal to one another; and to prove this, he need go no farther than the first book of Euclid, where it Was laid down as an axiom, that things equal to the same are equal to one another. As to a compulsory tender, if one tender was gone another must be substituted.Earl Stanhope
 submitted that some limit I should be put, even though it should extend to one, two, or three millions beyond the present amount.Earl Stanhope
dsldsdsldsl836lllllllllllll835 contended that his Bill did not go to render it compulsory to receive Bank notes, and observed that such a proposition, and that contained in the Bill, were essentially different. Was there no difference between a man being compelled to take a Bank note, and his having the right to refuse it, merely being told, that if he did take it, and thereby acknowleged the Bank who issued it, to be solvent, he must take it at the value expressed in it. The object of his Bill was to prevent injustice. Would it not be admitted, that in the case of a mortgage upon an estate, the estate must pay the interest of the mortgage before the proprietor touched a shilling of the rent for his own use. Was not, in the case of money borrowed by the public, the whole landed property of the country pledged to the payment of the public creditor? Was it just, then, that the public creditor should be compelled, as he was to receive Bank notes in payment of his dividend at the full value expressed in them, that
dsldsdsldsl836lllllllllllll835Earl Stanhope
 moved the cider of the day, for going in to a Committee on this Bill.Earl Stanhope
 presented the report of this Bill, and their lordships proceeded to take the amendments into consideration.Lord Walsingham
 said he had a few additional amendments to propose, but these were chiefly of a verbal nature. His lordship then proposed the same to different parts of the Bill.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that his noble friend need not be apprehensive from the amendments which had been made to the Bill, that it was rendered obscure or unintelligible; it was such as no juryman in the country could misunderstand. He could not however avoid remarking, with respect to the noble father of the Bill, that though he had committed it to the nursery of himself and his friends, he was very fond of attending in order to rock the cradle. To this he had no objection, and he trusted that wish the care taken in the nursing of the Bill, it would be rendered an efficient and salutary production. As to guarding this or any other Bill from the misconstruction of lawyers, he believed it would be found impracticable to do it, where they were so inclined.The Lord Chancellor
 suggested the propriety of introducing a short clause for preventing the operation of the present Bill from extending to Ireland; as from the different customs which prevailed in that country, in these respects, its application might lead to considerable inconveniences.The Earl of Liverpool
 acquiesced in the propriety of what had fallen from the noble Secretary of State, and was of opinion, that from the different modes and interval of paying the rents, no serious inconveniences were to be apprehended in Ireland, in the interval between this and the probable period of the next meeting of parliament.The Earl of Rosse
846 said he should not object to the amendments now proposed by the noble secretary, some of which he perceived to be necessary. But he wished to stand absolved, in the eyes of the House, or of the public, from being the cause of any ill or mischievous consequences that might arise from the great alterations which had been made in the Bill since he had the honour to propose it. The Bill which he proposed in the first instance was so clear and plain, that every juryman in the country could understand it. He acknowledged himself the father, as he had said before, of the Bill, but since the noble earl and his learned friends had undertaken the nursing of it, it was so altered, that although lawyers might understand it, few jurymen he believed could. He conjured noble lords to consider that this was a legistive measure, which, of all others, required to be clear and plain, considering its objects;
846Earl Stanhope
847 adverted to the Report of the Committee respecting the case of an individual who died some time since in the Marshal, sea prison, and observed, that in his opinion the evidence bore out the verdict of the coroner's jury. He did not mean in this case to throw blame on any person, in particular, and understanding that a new prison was in forwardness, under the direction of the lord Steward, he had refrained from calling their lordships' attention
847Lord Holland,
848 thought it incumbent on him to say a few words in opposition to it, conceiving it, as he did, a Bill pregnant with the most prejudicial consequences to the country. Having been obliged to quit the House on Tuesday from indisposition, after hearing one of the cabinet ministers oppose the Bill as unnecessary, he was much astonished to learn the next morning that the ministers had determined to support the Bill, and, had he not been prevented by indisposition, he should have felt it his duty to have attended on Wednesday to sign the Protest against it. He now felt it his duty most solemnly to protest against the Bill, which he conceived must lead to the very worst consequences, in making in effect, though not technically. Bank notes a legal tender, and in fixing a maximum for gold, that it should not be received or paid at above a certain rate; and a minimum for Bank notes, that they should not be received or paid at below a certain rate. In the adoption of these principles, of a forced circulation of paper currency, and a maximum and a minimum, he conceived there was the greatest danger to the opulence and the permanent interests of the country. He saw no effectual remedy for the existing state of things, but the repeal of the Bank Restriction act, and thought it might not be expedient to carry such a measure into effect immediately, still no time ought to be lost in bringing it about. He regretted
848Earl Grosvenor
849 expressed his astonishment that no noble lord on the other side should have risen to attempt to justify or explain the clauses which had from that side of the House been introduced into the Bill, and which so peculiarly called for explanation from those who proposed or supported them. Under these circumstances, he felt it his duty to make a few observations upon the Bill, as it now stood, and which he considered as wholly nugatory with respect to the object it professed to have in view, whilst at the same time it threw still greater difficulties in the way of the adjustment of contracts between landlord and tenant. There must now be two operations instead of one. As the law stood, the tenant might satisfy the contract by paying the Bank note at its real value. That being rendered impossible by this Bill, the tenant must take a certain portion of his produce to market, and sell it at a lower rate, for the purpose of procuring gold to satisfy his landlord. If those who now urged forward this Bill thought they could thereby retard the depreciation of Bank notes, or prevent there being two prices, one in paper and the other in gold, they were miserably mistaken. Already there were in fact two prices, a gold and a paper price, and to that the system must come. He had listened with much attention to the arguments of ministers upon this subject, and they really amounted to nothing more than this—"The Bank of England have issued a piece of paper, which they call a one pound note. We (the Treasury) agree to take it as a one
849Lord King
853ll852l851850 felt it his duty to State the impression upon his mind with respect to this Bill. At the period of 1797, when the restriction on the Bank of England was first proposed, he was an humble adviser of the government; and if a noble lord near him would condescend to recollect
853ll852l851850The Lord Chancellor
l said there was no need for the noble earl to add any thing on the subject. According to any definition, the possibility which the noble earl had supposed, was a thing which was impossible. There was no case in which the engagements to the public creditor ought not to be performed. He would even go to the depreciation which the noble carl had supposed, of 90 per cent.; and here he wished their lordships to observe, that what was due to the public creditor was only a proportion of the national wealth; but whatever it was, still he was entitled to that proportion. He himself had no money in the funds, his whole property was in land; but they had to remember that their estates were a part of the national wealth. The public creditor was the mortgagee on these lands, and they were the mortgagers; and they had not a right to one farthing of the revenue of their estates so long as the public creditor should remain unpaid. He would suppose an in dustrious carpenter who by 50 years of his life spent in ingenuity and hard efforts, had been able at last to accumulate one hundred pounds a year in the funds: could any man endure the idea, that this poor man should be reduced to receive only ten pounds, while a landed proprietor should continue to receive his 30,000lKarl Stanhope
877ex post facto declared, that before he followed the noble lord into his argument on the question of depreciation, or into the justice of the eulogy which he had thought proper to pronounce upon ministers, he felt it impossible for him not to make some remarks on the sentiments and declarations of the noble and learned lord on the woolsack. When he considered that extraordinary speech, and reflected at the same time, on the situation and office of that noble lord, he felt the highest degree of astonishment and alarm. The noble and learned lord had begun by enumerating the different modes of proceeding by which the landlord could sue his tenant, namely, by action of debt, by action on the covenant, by ejectment, and by distress. He scarcely knew what to think of the observations which accompanied this statement, or to believe that the noble lord had himself wished to be understood. Did he mean to say, when he talked of the duties of the judges, that they should dare to refuse to any man the legal remedy to which he was entitled? Did he intend to propose that an officer should be appointed to decide in court between notes that were good and others which were forged, or to impress this as a new duty on the Judges themselves? Did he mean, he begged to ask, to counsel the Judges to refuse any landlord his ejectment, under such circumstances? He did think, after what had passed, that as they had the power, it was their duty, to take the opinions of the judges themselves on this most momentous and interesting point? It would be worth inquiry whether, previous to 1797, the ejectment would have been stayed by a payment of Bank-notes. If the doctrine of the noble and learned lord that night were once established, Bank notes would, to every practical purpose, immediately become a legal tender. It had long been a principle in legislation to avoid every thing approaching to the nature or character of an 877ex post factoThe Earl of Lauderdale
 adverting to the statement of the noble lord, that the notes of the Bank of Scotland were at par, while those of the Bank of England were depreciated, observed, in contradiction to that statement, that at the inns, for 150 miles on the great North Road from Darlington to Edinburgh, the Scots Bank note, and the English Bank note, were received indifferently, and passed for precisely the same sum.The Earl of Morton,
879 defended his noble friend (lord Harrowby) from the charge of ignorance that had been preferred against him; a charge to which no man in the House or the country was with less justice liable than his noble friend. The arguments of the noble lords who opposed the Bill went not against this particular act, but against the whole of the system, which had been acted upon since 1797. If that system was proved impolitic, it would not follow that the proposed measure must therefore be otherwise. The adoption of this measure would by no means preclude an investigation of that system, or a recurrence to cash payments at the Bank, if such a recurrence should be deemed necessary. The Bill before the House was a measure of justice to a great portion of the people. It was generally agreed, that the strictest faith should be kept with the national creditor, and that he should be placed on as good a footing as any other individual in the country. The national creditor received Bank notes at par; he ought to be placed in a situation in which he should be enabled to part with them at par. If in this' point the landholder obtained an advantage, the national creditor must sustain an injury. He contended that there was no depreciation whatever. As to increased price of corn, that was attributable to the increase of population and consumption. But with respect to many articles of home produce and manufacture, such as wool, iron, copper, lead, &c. of these some had been reduced, while others were stationary: The noble lord opposite, after a great deal of elaborate disquisition, had arrived at this profound observation, namely, that if the notes of the Bank of England were to be increased to the amount of the assignats of France, they would become equally' depreciated! This was indisputable: but was there the least apprehension of such an event? The paper circulation of this country had not that tendency to excess' which had been so injurious to other countries.
879The Earl of Liverpool
brutum fulmen873872argumentum ad hominem871l870869868 trusted, that as the noble earl, the father of this Bill, had alluded to debates on a former evening, the same forbearance would be shewn to other individuals. The whole was, indeed, but one protracted debate on the same subject. He could not help thinking that the misunderstandings which had arisen in consequence of this Bill, had produced a sort of mental earthquake in the House. He had suffered by this as well as others; his opinions had been much misunderstood, and it would have been necessary for him in some stage or other of the business, to attempt to set the matter right, had not his noble friend called on him at this time to do so by his reference. The whole proceeding was indeed so anomalous, that it was no wonder that misconceptions and misunderstandings should take place, and therefore this mutual leave became the
brutum fulmen873872argumentum ad hominem871l870869868Lord Holland
 thought it would be unbecoming to pass the bill, under all the circumstances of the case, without having first the opinions of the judges. He would therefore move as an amendment, that after the word "That," words should be inserted summoning the judges to attend that House to-morrow.The Earl of Lauderdale
 in explanation, repeated that the law of the country would remain the same after the passing of the act as at present in cases of execution, and said that the landlord who took a note must take it for the sum specified in it and when distraining must submit to have such a note so offered to him.The Lord Chancellor,
881880 protested against the proposed measure, as fraught with general calamity. The noble lord who had just spoken talked of the faith due to the national creditor. That faith no one would wish more strictly to observe than himself; but what would the national creditor gain by the present Bill? Would it give to bank notes an increased value? would not its only effect be to place landholders in the same distressing situation? For his part (notwithstanding what had fallen from the noble and learned lord on the woolsack) he never would believe, until it should be declared by the twelve Judges, that the payment-by a tenant into a court, of bank notes, would shelter him
881880Earl Grey
866 wished to put the noble earl ill mind that the expressions he had made use of on a former evening were made under certain qualifications, which were essential to a proper understanding of them. No person could state more highly than he had done the obligation of faith and justice towards the public creditors. He had merely stated, that if ever the time
866Earl Grey
s865864 said he had been misunderstood by his noble friend as to his idea of value arising from demand. He should take, for explanation of his statement, the instance of two editions of the same book, one of them scarce and the other not; there would then be a great difference in the price, because those anxious for the rare edition would be ready to secure it at any price, there being a great difficulty in securing it, while for the more common edition, but equally valuable to any common purchaser, the price would be comparatively small. So were Bank notes, at this moment, to those who were not borne away with the idea of the scarcity of guineas, and of course with their greater value. He was utterly astonished when he heard his noble friend utter so mischievous, abominable, and impolitic a sentiment as this, that that which the public creditor was bound to take was not a legal tender to any other man whatever. If his noble friend contended, that so was the case, he should be glad to debate it with him; let him recall to his noble friend the high situation which he lately held; let him remind him that to a situation equally high, he might again speedily be raised, and then, let him ask his noble friend, if from a person holding a situation of that importance in the country such language as this was or ought to be expected—that the requiring men to receive payment in such a mode as that to which he had referred, was a
s865864Earl Stanhope
876875lex non scripta sed874 said, that many observations had been made on the impropriety of producing this measure at so late a period of the session; but as ministers were not the original authors of the Bill, the censure could not be fairly applied to them. When the noble lord first introduced the Bill, although be had supported
876875lex non scripta sed874The Earl of Harrowby
 spoke in favour of the amendment, as after what had fallen from the noble and learned lord in the course of debate, their opinions were necessary to explain the bill.Lord Grenville
867 expressed himself, glad that his noble relation bad then, for the
867Lord Grenville
863862861860859858857856855854 would not follow the noble and learned lord in his observations on the Catholic question, but would come immediately to the subject before their lordships. The noble and learned lord had most grievously disappointed him in the hope which he cherished—most confidently cherished, from some observations in the outset of his speech; that he would have distinctly stated what would be the effect of this Bill. But, after listening with the utmost attention, he still remained on that point in the most complete and total ignorance. The noble and learned lord told what every one knew, that landlords had various remedies against tenants for the recovery of their rents; that they might proceed by the different modes of distress, ejectment, action of covenant, or debt. From the language of this Bill, he presumed it took away the remedy of distress. Now', what he wanted to know distinctly from the noble and learned lord, was, in what situation the landlord would stand with regard to his tenant, when this Bill should have obtained the sanction of the legislature? Would they still retain the remedy by ejectment, and action of debt and covenant? The noble and learned lord has not told us, continued lord Grenville, how they will stand in this respect, though, as I understand it, they are still to retain these remedies—but a more alarming view of the subject than that taken by the noble and learned lord, I never before heard in any discussion upon any question. Recollect, my Lords, the effect will not stop with the landlord and tenant; it will pervade every contract, every transaction of exchange in this commercial country; and, astonishing and painful as it was to me to hear the speech of the noble
863862861860859858857856855854Lord Grenville
 strongly objected to their lordships adopting any proceeding whatever, in the present instance, with regard to the propositions of his noble friend. He should rather think what his noble friend meant was, that what he now said should be regarded as a species of notice of his intention to submit such propositions on some future day, than as expressive of his desire to obtain a vote of the House on topics of such extent, importance, and magnitude, without any previous notice being given, in the present circumstances of the session, or in an attendance so extremely thin as the present. For his part, he could not agree in acceding to any propositions which involved the supposition of the insolvency of the Bank of England. This was a consideration which he, and those with whom he acted, in all the discussions which had taken place on the subject, had never called in question, however they might differ in sentiment as to the restrictions upon the Bank. Neither could he accede to any proposition for the legislalure giving its sanction to a principle which militated against that of the precious metals being the preferable circulating medium. These were points of weighty importance, not to be lightly agitated, and still less lightly decided upon. What struck him as the most advisable way of proceeding at present was, to move to adjourn the debate to a future day, he should suggest Tuesday.The Earl of Lauderdale
, in explanation, deprecated the idea of any thing being advanced in the Resolutions which went to infer a want of solvency on the part of the Bank; on the contrary, the whole of his proposed system went upon the principle that the Bank was amply solvent, and the effect of what he proposed would be to augment and establish its solidity; and the more to evince that such was his conviction, he was ready to strike out those words from the Resolution which possibly gave rise to the idea. He requested his noble friend to recollect he had offered no motion upon. the subject, tending to imply the sanction of the House. He trusted, that whenever this important subject should come to be discussed, it would be considered more in the spirit of a deliberative than a debating assembly. As to the proposed mode he had no objection; and moved, accordingly, that the Lords be summoned for Tuesday next.—The debate arising on the above was then ordered to be adjourned till Tuesday, and their lordships to be summoned for that day.Earl Stanhope
913maximum912911910909 said he felt it his duty to bring forward some further propositions respecting this important subject. What he had proposed already, what their lordships had clone in consequence, and what, he trusted, the House of Commons would do before the close of the session, was by no means sufficient for the attainment of the object he had in view. This would be found so, The Bill which he had proposed, he, from the beginning, had expressed his wish to be understood so, was only an incipient, an introductory measure, and something farther was essentially necessary to follow upon it. In effect, if he might be allowed to speak figuratively, what he had proposed was no more than a palliative remedy—a plaister for the wound; nay, a plaister merely calculated to keep the wasps and flies from the wound until the next session of parliament. What he proposed now, was a number of propositions, which he wished the House would order to be printed, in order that they might be generally known and considered, not only by their lordships but by the public at large. This he meant as the foundation of a general and comprehensive system, for securing an efficient and never-failing circulating medium to the country, which was so necessary under its present circumstances, when, from various causes, it was impracticable to use what were technically called the precious metals, as such. Under the present system, it would be in the highest degree unjust to render the Bank notes a legal tender. He meant generally, as individuals might easily be placed in circumstances, with reference to the possibility of a fictitious or forged note being passed upon him, that whether they refused or accepted the tendered note, they might be equally losers. With respect to the public creditors, they might safely be rendered a legal tender, because their payments coming directly from the Bank, there was no fear of forgery. But the system which he proposed to substitute, and which it would be found ere long necessary to adopt, or something like it, was such as would do away all apprehensions of the kind. The system, as recommended by his Resolutions, was, to constitute branches from the Bank of England, in the different counties, so that they might pervade the whole—that books of
913maximum912911910909Earl Stanhope
 observed, that the subject might be discussed any where, it depended upon the manner in which it was treated.The Earl of Lauderdale
 did not wish to enter now into the discussion of the subject adverted to by the noble earl, but would only generally observe, that he had always considered it a safer and a better course to derive principles from experience, than to lay down speculative principles to act upon, and to try whether those principles would operate to produce the good expected from them. With respect to this second child offered by the noble earl for adoption, he should merely now say that he did not object to the printing of the Resolutions, but at the same time he wished expressly to guard himself from the supposition that he there by approved of them. He assented to the printing of them as a matter of convenience, that they might be better understood by their lordships; wishing it, however, to be distinctly understood, that he did not by that vote mean to express any opinion upon the subject matter of the Resolutions.The Earl of Liverpool
984 said it was highly satisfactory to him to hear the noble earl on the other side decline to adopt this second child of his noble friend, but he still thought that to vote the printing of these Resolutions would be giving a sanction to them which the House ought to pause long before they agreed to. He could not but consider some parts of his noble friend's speech as inflammatory and mischievous, although undoubtedly not intended to be so. When his noble friend talked of calling a meeting in Westminster,
984The Earl of Lauderdale
, in explanation, said he had not alledged that the taxes, the public Creditor, the army and navy, could not be paid without gold, but without a circulating medium. His noble friend, who had made one of the best speeches upon the Roxburgh case, had made as bad a speech now as his speech was good then. As to a meeting in Palace-yard, he really believed that there were many persons amongst the inhabitants of Westminster who understood this subject quite as well as his noble friend.Earl Stanhope
983982981 moved the order of the day for resuming the adjourned debate on his Resolutions relative to a proposed Circulating Medium. [See p. 908.] His lordship observed, that he should be trespassing on their lordships' patience, and insulting their understandings, if he were to adduce any argument to shew the importance of the subject, as without a circulating medium the taxes could not be paid, the public creditor could not be paid, nor could our army or navy receive any pay. He was perfectly aware that the Bill which had passed that House would not of itself be sufficient; and that if that Bill passed into a law, there would be a necessity, as the law would then stand, for further measures, with the view of establishing a fit and proper Circulating Medium. He admitted, that that Bill was only a coat for a humpy; and that it was adapted to a distorted state of things. He had brought it forward as an immediate remedy for a pressing evil, but without having any idea that that alone would be sufficient. By that Bill, under the clause very properly, added to
983982981Earl Stanhope
 moved the order of the day for taking into consideration the Amendments made by the Commons to this Bill; and they having been read and agreed to, his lordship moved, that a message be sent to the Commons, informing them that the House had agreed to the said Amendments.The Earl of Liverpool
1113lllll11121111 then rose, and took a review of the circumstances under which this Bill had originated, and the whole subject connected with it. His lordship attributed the adoption of the Bill by ministers, not to the notice given by lord King, but to the decision of the Judges in the case of De Yonge, and was of opinion that the real object of the Bill, as altered by ministers, was to give redress (if he might use the term upon this subject) against the decision of the Judges. The question as to the depreciation of Bank-notes, was one which certainly required the most deliberate investigation, and perhaps was a subject which rather "ought to be written upon than debated. There were, however, certain facts, which it was quite impossible to controvert, and which must, in his opinion, clearly demonstrate the depreciation. The gold coin of the country was not admissible in circulation, except it was of the standard weight and fineness. Five pennyweights eleven grains was the standard weight of the guinea, and it was gold of this standard weight that Bank notes promised to pay, or fractional parts in silver, of a fixed standard, if, therefore, the Bank note was convertible into gold, and the price of gold rose, the value of the Bank note must rise in the same proportion. If a
1113lllll11121111The Earl of Lauderdale
1114 could not allow the question to pass without observing upon some of the statements of the noble lord. The value of the gold coin of this country was not to be estimated according to its weight in gold, but according to the value fixed upon it by the reigning sovereign of the country. The value of bank notes, as for every purpose of internal negociation, he contended, was by the general consent of the country declared not to be depreciated. There were no persons out of that House who had expressed their
1114The Earl of Liverpool
, in explanation, thought it was not fair to judge what the opinions of noble lords, or of any other persons, must be, from their following or not following the example of lord King. If every person who agreed that there was a depreciation of paper were to follow the line of conduct suggested by his noble friend (lord King), he suspected the noble Secretary of State would find the present Bill a less effectual measure than he now supposed it. The noble lord was bound to take them as they preached, not as they practised.The Earl of Lauderdale
1115 begged to remind the House, that, having already agreed to the Amendments made by the Commons on the Bill, the question now was, whether a message should be sent to the Commons, stating that they had agreed to those
1115The Lord Chancellor
 strongly sopported the opinions he had formerly delivered, and in which he was happy to find the noble Secretary of State concurred, as to the cause of the value affixed to the current coin of the country. It was only by violating the law, which prohibited the turning guineas into bullion, that the value of a guinea could be raised above that conferred on it by the proclamation of the King, or the act of the legislature. Why noble lords and others had not followed the example of the noble lord (King) he could easily explain. They did not wish to expose themselves to the execration of the country. The noble earl had said this Bill was meant as a hint to lord King. Certainly he did mean it as a hint to his lordship, and to all who should act like him. He did not know whether the noble earl had ever studied at Oxford. Those who were acquainted with the University of Oxford, must have heard of John King's 'broad hint.' It was this: that when a person had been warned that his company was disagreeable, and that his further presence, therefore, was dispensed with, and he failed to take the hint, that then he should be kicked down stairs. He had now given lord King the hint; and, if his lord shop did not chuse to take it, he should move, next session, to give him John King's broad hint.Earl Stanhope
11201119 delivered the, following Speech:11201119The Lord Chancellor
