 immediately rose and observed that he felt it his duty to take the earliest possible opportunity of addressing the House and his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, on a subject which seemed to him to be of the utmost importance to the country.Sir F. Burdett
2019 said he could not forego the opportunity now afforded him of offering himself thus early to the attention of the House, and of proposing, for their adoption, such an Address as, in the situation in which the country was placed, seemed to him to be imperiously and peculiarly called for. In addressing his royal highness the Prince Regent in the language of truth, and telling him what were the feelings of the people of these kingdoms at the present moment, he was conscious of discharging a duty of the most important kind, both to the Prince and the people. From what he knew of the feelings and declarations of the Prince Regent, he was persuaded that he was not one of those princes who wished to hear nothing but what was sweet, pleasing, and agreeable. The conduct and declarations of his royal highness were of a very different kind, and he felt that he should not do his duty to his constituents, to the country, or to the Prince Regent himself, if he let go the present opportunity of addressing his royal highness, and expressing to him what were the real feelings of the country at the present moment, and what were the grievances of which we had to complain. The exertions of the Spanish people against our common enemy were, no doubt, to be regarded by us as of consequence, nor were their losses to be attributed to any failure on our part; and it most afford us pleasure and gratification to know that we had a brave army, who did not disgrace the spirit of their forefathers. But, in the course of the compliments so largely and justly bestowed on our army, we never once heard mention of that word, as the spring of our exertions, the word 'freedom,' to the love of which, in old times, we were so much accustomed to attribute the bravery and courage of our armies. It could not be contradicted, that for the last 18 years, every succeeding year in which the members of that House met each other in their places, was more calamitous than that which had pre ceded it. He was afraid he might even go farther back, and declare that this had been the case from the very beginning of the present reign—that our calamities had been begun from the commencement of the American war, and had been going on in a progressive increase for nearly half a century. And if, for the last fifty years, the situation of this country had always been growing worse and worse—was it not now time to reflect? Must we not, at
2019Sir Francis Burdett
313029282726"Necessitas coget.""Si meum ingenium non moneret"Sed me vera pro gratis loqui,"His ego gratiora dictu alia esse scio,25ex-officioex-officio24232221 said, that nothing could give him greater pleasure than to hear that from the chair; since it proved, that there was a firm conviction that the House of Commons ought to represent the people of England, when to hint a contrary opinion was considered as an insult not to be borne: and yet, on the 11th of May, 1808, a minister was detected in the traffic of seats,—a practice which was not only not denied, but unblushingly avowed to be as notorious as the sun at noon-day; and, therefore, it might have-been conceived that gentlemen would not have been over delicate at hearing such things suggested.—The hon. baronet then called the attention of the House to the shackles imposed on the Prince Regent—restrictions, than which nothing more insulting could be conceived, as they-supposed that the son was capable of using his power contrary to the interests of his father: but, happily for the country, those restrictions would soon expire; an event to which they would
313029282726"Necessitas coget.""Si meum ingenium non moneret"Sed me vera pro gratis loqui,"His ego gratiora dictu alia esse scio,25ex-officioex-officio24232221Sir Francis Burdett
44 said, he was not present when the hon. baronet made his speech; but he had heard the Address read, and in it there were particular words which impelled him to offer to the House a few observations. The whole of that Address he certainly reprobated; but the particular words to which he alluded, were those which went to stigmatize the character of a learned judge, and were, in substance, that that learned judge, in his eagerness to convict, had anticipated a verdict of Guilty on the trial of Mr. White.
44The Attorney General
, in explanation, said, that what he founded his assertion upon, was that part of lord Ellenborough's language to Mr. White, where his lordship advised that gentleman to reserve his evidence until he should be brought up for judgment.Sir F. Burdett
 It is evident, from the explanation of the hon. baronet himself, that lord Ellenhorough acted even a humane part. It is plain, that lord Ellenborough only advised Mr. White to reserve his evidence for affidavits, in mitigation of punishment: which, though they would not serve him as evidence on the trial, might be advantageous to him should he be brought up for judgment.The Attorney General.
 replied, that he did not think the noble lord much benefitted by this triumphant explanation of the right hon. gentleman. One thing was certain, that the remark of the judge was made before the evidence was heard in defence of Mr. White.Sir F. Burdett
4645 observed, that he felt himself in the same predicament as his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread): he could neither vote for the original Address nor the Amendment, but should think it his duty to vote against both. He would state, in a very few words, his objections
4645Mr. Ponsonby
4948 said, he had hoped that the mode pursued by an hon. gent, in stating his reasons for not agreeing with the Amendment, would have been generally adopted, and all discussion thereby prevented. But as something had fallen from the right hon. gent. who had last addressed them, which might probably give rise to some observation, he thought it necessary just to say a few words on those subjects which he had touched upon. If, however, the debate should extend to any length, and he had no means of judging that it would not, he hoped the privilege would be granted him of remarking on any subjects which might be started. As to the first point on which the right hon. gent, had observed, he felt it proper to state, that, by the terms of the Amendment, the House would be pledged to nothing more than an opinion, that, under the circumstances of his Majesty's present indisposition, it was right that an arrangement for his convenience and comfort should be made. But, as to the extent and mode of that arrangement, it must be the subject of future consideration, when the proposition was regularly made. The same observation would apply to the second point. In voting for the Amendment, couched in its present language, nothing else could be supposed, than that the House would give such supplies to carry on the great contest in Spain and Portugal, as they should think fit, when the subject was brought fully before them. In what manner that contest was to be maintained and supported, to what extent supplies should be granted, and in what direction they should be particularly applied, were questions which would be open to the animadversion of every gentleman in that House, as completely as if he had not voted for the Amendment. He agreed with the remark which the right hon. gent. had made on the subject of the American negociations. It certainly was not desire-able that any discussion should take place on that topic, while the business was still pending, as stated in the Speech they had recently heard read—still, however, it would unquestionably be competent for any hon. member, at a future time, to introduce whatever observations he thought proper, on the state of the relations between the two countries.—The right hon. gent. complained, that the Speech had not taken any notice of the affairs of Ireland, farther than the statement of an improved revenue in the present year, compared
4948The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in explanation, said, the right hon. gent. seemed, from the observations he bad made, to have misunderstood what bad fallen from him on the manner in which Ireland was mentioned in the Speech and in the Amendment, which of course was originally intended for the Address. He (Mr. Ponsonby) had observed, that the Speech and the Address of the noble lord were entirely silent as to any recommendation to parliament to inquire into the general state of Ireland. This he conceived blameable. Such mention might, however, have been made, without then going into the subject; for a discussion on the situation of Ireland, on the present occasion, would, in his opinion, be wrong. But the right hon. gent. having entirely forborne to recommend to the House the consideration of the state of Ireland, he thought it absolutely necessary that the subject should be brought before them; and at an early day an hon. friend of his would press it on their attention.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that, with respect to the war in the peninsula, so far from objecting to those supplies which had been granted, he was willing to pledge himself to any future support which the exigencies of the cause might demand. But he disapproved of the Address of the noble lord, on account of a proper mention of the state of Ireland being omitted.Colonel Dillon
 called the hon. baronet to order, and observed the House could not hear such language as applied to itself.The Speaker
 decided that the hon. bart was in possession of the House.The Speaker
 put the question, and the gallery was ordered to be cleared for a division, whenThe Speaker
3332 rose, for the purpose of seconding the Address of the hon. baronet. He agreed with the Speech delivered in the name of the Prince Regent, in lamenting the continued indisposition of his Majesty; and thought that a high tribute was due to the bravery of our army in Portugal, and to the conduct of the commander id chief; but he would deny that the war as conducted in the peninsula, could prove ultimately successful. His lordship proceeded to maintain, that the forces of Great Britain were not sufficient to cope with those which Buonaparté could bring against us as soon as he had completed the subjugation of, Spain, and obtained the command of its resources. Of this we were quiet spectators. To what, he would ask, was our army indebt-
3332Lord Cochrane
434241 seconded the Amendment: in doing which, he said he would not trespass at any length upon the time of the House, nor travel from the Speech into any extraneous matter. He Was sensible of his own inability, and that no arguments in his power to urge could have any great weight on their decision; but he trusted, that any errors of which he might be guilty, would be rather imputed to this canse, than to any want of zeal for the welfare of the country. The hon. gent, then took a view of the nature of the Prince Regent's office, as holding the executive power in behalf of his father, in 'whom the dignity of royalty continued to rest; and passed a high eulogy on the
434241Mr. Vyse
40393837363534 rose and said:—In rising, Sir, to move an Amendment to the Address proposed by the hon. bart to his royal highness the Prince Regent, in answer to his most gracious Speech, I have to differ from the hon. bart. in every point of view, lamenting, at the same time, that it has fallen to the lot of a person so incapable either of doing sufficient justice to the sentiment; of his Royal Highness, or of dwelling sufficiently strong upon those particular points to which his Royal Highness has referred us. I, however, shall throw
40393837363534Lord Jocelyn
 rose at the same time with the hon. baronet, but Sir Francis having first caught the eye of the Speaker,Lord Jocelyn
 rose, and said, as he observed the hon. baronet was determined to press the question to a division, he would briefly state why, concurring with him as he did, on many of the points connected with the present calamitous state of the country, he could not give his vote in favour of the Address he had proposed. He could not give him his vote, because, though he did concur in many of these points, there were others on which he could not agree. There were, indeed, many topics introduced, which might better have been withheld for future opportunities, and others which involved the character of individuals, on which he was not competent as yet to make up his judgment. But, as on the one hand, he could not go with the hon. baronet, so neither on the other hand could he accede to the Amendment of the noble lord, which also went to carry him much further than he had as yet seen reason for proceeding.Mr. Whitbread
 presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following Declarations:Mr. Secretary Ryder
636261605958The creature's at his dirty work again.""Destroy the web of prophecy in vain,57 said he confessed that the concluding sentence of the hon. gentleman's speech had furnished him with a clue to his objections against
636261605958The creature's at his dirty work again.""Destroy the web of prophecy in vain,57The Chancellor of the Exchequer
6867 observed, that it had hitherto been usual, whenever the country was called on to make additional sacrifices, for the House to be told in the Speech from the throne, that the trade and commerce of the nation were on the in crease, and that the revenue was improving. Now, however, they had been told nothing of this, and it was known that the revenue of the country had experienced a rapid decline. The House ought, therefore, to be in possession of all the facts on this subject before they proceeded to pledge themselves to a continuance of the continental war; and it was his intention to submit a motion to that purport.
6867Mr. Greevey
 said, he had the satisfaction to state, that the hon. gent. had taken a very black and a very unfounded view of the revenue of the country; for though it was true that the revenue of the present year was not equal to that of the last year, it was much greater than that of any former year; and it was certainly wonderful that, with all the pressures on our commerce and manufactures, the revenue should still exceed what it had been on any year previous to the last. The diminution of trade during the three first quarters of the year had naturally produced a diminution of the customs; but it would be seen from the last quarter, that a stop had been put to the continuance of that diminution. What was of still greater consequence, however, was, that the Excise exceeded during the last year, the year ending in January 1811; for the excise was truly the great source of our revenue, being four times as great as the customs. The total revenue was indeed two millions short of the revenue of the preceding year; but then it was to be considered, that that year was the greatest which had ever been known, and was more than two millions beyond that of the former, year. The Excise, too, was riot what it would otherwise have been on account of the large distillation from sugar during the summer months, which operated against the new duty on spirits. But under all the circumstances, the excise was greater than that of the preceding year; and the revenue, though not the greatest, was next to the greatest ever known.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
7271 said, that not with standing the thinness of the House, he could not allow himself to give a silent vote upon the present occasion. He certainly dissented most completely from the sentiments contained in the Address, believing, as he did, that the circumstances of the times called for language from the House very different from that of adulation. When the Address of last year was moved, he had thought fit to express his conviction that it was then the duty of the House to speak out their sentiments, and apprise the Prince Regent of the awful circumstances under which he assumed the government; that during the preceding reign a great part of the empire had been for ever lost, and the safety of the remaining parts endangered, and that he could neither with honour to himself or safety to the country, adopt the plans which had been already pursued with such ruinous effects. Every thing which had taken place since, that period served to confirm him in the opinion that such was the language with which. they ought to approach the Prince Regent, and he therefore wished to enter his decided protest on this occasion against the principles and proceedings of the present ministers. With respect to the proposed Address, it stated little, and that little incorrectly, and it kept back and concealed that which was most important. It was not true that our armies had effectually defended Portugal. He certainly did not wish to reflect on the conduct of the general to whom the command of the army in Portugal was entrusted, nor on the conduct of the troops; for he believed that every thing had been done by them which it was possible for them to do under the circumstances in which they had been placed. But he would ask, whether they really meant to state to the country and to Europe that the English army had effectually secured the defence of Portugal? That army was allowed to remain in Portugal, not because it could not be driven from it, but because it had never yet been the policy or interest of the emperor of the French to carry on the attack in that quarter. The right hon. gent. opposite had said, that he had afforded ah addition of 10,000 men to the forces in the peninsula during the last year; but could any man believe that this supply was in any wise effectual for the successful prosecution of the war? Such exertions as had hitherto been made were certainly most inadequate for the de-
7271Mr. Hutchinson
 explained, that he had been misapprehended in the expression he had employed, that the British army in Portugal was stronger at this time by 10,000 men than it was at the same period last year. He did not intend to be understood, that reinforcements to the extent of 10,000 men, had been sent out, but that on a calculation of the whole force, the augmentation was to that amount.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
64. I could
64The Chancellor of the Exchequer
66l65 could not conceive in what respect our affairs in the peninsula had in the smallest degree been improved. If we viewed the efforts of our armies, in what had they succeeded? What attempt had lord Wellington made in which he had not been baffled? He made the most vigorous efforts to capture Badajos; had he succeeded? No; on the contrary, in addition to the immense loss of British soldiers, even 25,000 Spaniards had been destroyed, or had fallen into the hands of the French. But as Badajos was a place of the most vital importance to the occupiers of Portugal, these losses were not deemed too much to obtain possession of it; the battle of Albuera could have no-other object than its capture. Though victorious in the field, were we successful in our plan? No, certainly not: for immediately we find lord Wellington re-pass the Guadiana. As to Ciudad Rodrigo, the gallant general could not imagine we had been more successful: although lord Wellington's force consisted of 11 regiments of cavalry, 52 battalions of British infantry, besides 3 or 4,000 Germans, and numerous levies of Portuguese and Spaniards, yet life had failed in two attempts; the French force only three divisions, opposed to him, were inferior in numbers, yet he could not pre? vent their collecting supplies, advancing (though encumbered by 1,500 waggons) and throwing succour into the place. Could this be any addition to our military fame? Could these discomfitures entwine laurels round the brow of the British army? Lord Wellington was obliged to fly, to desert the level country, and to take refuge in ravines and mountains, which
66l65General Tarleton
 rose for the purpose of correcting a misstatement which had been made by an hon. general as to what had fallen from him in seconding the Address on the precedinge evening. He had merely stated, that though Spain was not absolutely so secure as Portugal, still she must be considered as absolutely unconquerable.Mr. Vyse
, in explanation, denied having made any declaration against peace with BuonapartéLord Jocelyn
 said, he thought He had heard such an expression fall from him but as the noble lord must have recollected what he said better than he could, he was satisfied that he was mistaken in the opinion.Mr. Whitbread
. I do not rise, Sir, to explain, but to demand of the right hon. gentleman to explain, whether he meant any personal allusion. in some words that fell from him that appeared to me to be of no very delicate description.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that, although the right hon. gent. had argued with. considerable address on the subject of the revenue, still he had not forced conviction on his mind. He had stated, that the revenue of the past year, though not perhaps so great as had been known, was considerably larger than that collected in the. receding year. Now, if the revenue was subject to such fluctuations, while the expences of the country were daily and certainly augmenting, he must be a bad financier, who, viewing such uncertainty of supply on the one hand, and such certainty of expence on the other, did not look about for some mode by which he might lessen the expenditure, so as to bring it on a level with those resources on which he could depend. The right hon. gent. had spoken of the Excise as being very productive; but to him (Mr. W.) the customs appeared to be of more importance. Now, it was an incontrovertible fact, that the Customs had very much decreased, which was a fair criterion of the general state of the trade and commerce of the country. Then the question was, if the customs were falling, would not the Excise also sink? Most assuredly it must; for, by the trade which supported the Customs, individuals were enabled to pay the Excise. Did the right hon. gent. believe that the expences of the country were likely to be kept within any definite bounds? Did he not think, on the contrary, that the expenditure would progressively increase? And, if he continued the finance minister, would he not be obliged to increase the burdens of the country in proportion? And here he would repeat what be had before said, that, beyond a certain point, no power could force the resources of a country; and, he would ask, was it not better to examine deliberately, and look to measures which they were confident could be pursued, than blindly to pledge themselves to that which, probably they would be unable to perform? The observations of his hon. friend appeared to him to be perfectly just; sand the postponement of the Address, which he thought a very proper; measure, met with his warmest approbation.Mr. Whitbread
. I am perfectly satisfied with the explanation given by the right hon. gent.; and I am sure that had the same words been so applied to him, he would have felt it necessary to call for an explanation.Mr. Whitbread
56555453 said, that he should avail himself of that opportunity to declare those sentiments which a particular and unexpected occurrence of yesterday had prevented, and should state his reasons to the House for not agreeing to the Address. In the early part of it, which spoke of his Majesty's situation in a manner they must all feel to be applicable, he perfectly concurred; but there were other parts which, consistently with his duty as a member of parliament; he felt it incumbent on him to oppose. Indeed, the only exception he felt himself bound to make, in addition to the one already stated, was in favour of the congratulation on the conduct and bravery of his Majesty's troops, especially in the action under general Hill. He must also be disposed to acknowledge the merits of lord Wellington, who, if he had lately done nothing to advance, might at least be said to have done nothing that could derogate from a fame which might rank among the greatest of antient or of modern times. But knowing the disposition of the country towards the cause in which they were embarked; knowing that no effort which ministers could make, was left unmade; knowing that no voice, from one end of the kingdom to the other,
56555453Mr. Whitbread
de excommunicato capiendo102ldsl101ll100 said, he rose for the purpose of laying before the House the Petition of a very humble individual; but, he was sure, it would not, on that account, meet with less attention, particularly when it was known that this person had been treated with great oppression. The Petitioner was a young woman of the name of Dix, residing in Bristol, and who, for two years, had been imprisoned in the gaol of that city, having been excommunicated by the sentence of the Ecclesiastical Court. The circumstances were briefly these. Two women, of whom the petitioner was one, fell out, and abused each other in the street. In consequence of some expressions made use of by the Petitioner, her opponent instituted a suit against her in the Ecclesiastical Court, and at the end of a year and a half, she was sentenced to perform penance. Having failed in this, she was ultimately excommunicated. A process afterwards issued out of the King's-bench, under
de excommunicato capiendo102ldsl101ll100Lord Folkestone
 rose, for the purpose of moving the appointment of a Committee to examine the King's Physicians, touching the state of his Majesty's health. It had been considered questionable, whether or not in the present stage of the proceeding, it was necessary to appoint any Committee for that purpose; but as doubts had arisen in some quarters on that subject, it had been deemed advisable before the House proceeded to any ulterior measure, that they should enter into an inquiry by a Committee of their own; the more especially as such an inquiry could be productive of very little delay. He therefore moved," That a Select Committee be appointed to examine the Physicians who have attended his Majesty, touching the state of his Majesty's health since the examination of his Majesty's Physicians before a Committee of this House in the last session of parliament, and to report such examination to the House."—The motion was agreed to, and a Committee accordingly appointed of 21 members, as follows: Mr. Secretary Ryder, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Master of the Rolls, Mr. Ponsonby, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Sheridan, the Attorney General, Mr. W. Adam, Mr. A. H. Eyre, Mr. C. Long, Mr. Tierney, lord Jocelyn, sir J. Newport, sir J. Nicholl, Mr. Whitbread, lord Castlereagh, lord Milton, Mr. Canning, lord G. Cavendish, Mr. H. Addington, Mr. S. Bourne.Mr. Secretary Ryder
124 repeated what had been previously stated, that the grant of the situation of Clerk of the Council was not a grant of the present day. With respect to the appointment of colonel M'Mahon, he could not discover that the arguments of the first speaker had been at all advanced by those who followed on the opposite side. As to the question which the hon. gent. had asked, What inconvenience could be expected to arise from the situation of Paymaster of the Widows' Pensions being left vacant till the meeting of parliament? He certainly could not take upon himself to say that inconvenience was to be apprehended. He would however, answer that question, by asking the hon. gent. another: What inconvenience could be anticipated from its being given as it had been given, leaving it open to parliament' to abolish, to regulate,
124Mr. Secretary Ryder
 professed himself to be one whose opinion it was that public services should be rewarded by places and sinecures; he did not wish to see government abolish all sinecure appointments until a sufficient sum was provided in order to remunerate those who would be thus dispossessed of what they now held.Mr. Matthew Montague
 rose and said, that notwithstanding what he had heard that night, with respect to originating motions without notice, he would assert the right which every member of parliament possessed of doing so; and would, therefore, proceed to address a few observations to the chair, on a notice which he was about to give. It was now the 13th year since the enactment of the legislative union between Great Britain and Ireland. It would be in the recollection of the members of that House, that at the time of the passing of that act, it was carried, in consequence—in direct consequence—of promises made on the part of the government of England, by persons in the highest stations, and with the sanction of the highest authority—Mr. Hutchinson
 I do not wish, at this hour, to detain the House many minutes; but I insist on the right which every member possesses of originating a motion without the least notice, if he should so please.Mr. Hutchinson.
 Then, if the hon. gent. will insist on his privilege, it is right that that privilege should be ascertained. No member can make a motion, without the permission of the House, after five o'clock, if the regular orders of the day have been disposed of.The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 It was not my intention to state my objections at large against the continuance of the legislative union: I merely claimed my right as a member of parliament; but I see that as soon as one word on the subject of Ireland or the Union is said, no indulgence from the right hon. gent. is to be expected. I ask no indulgence from him; but if I am to be precluded from addressing a few observations to the chair, let the House remember that the right hon. gent., the Prince Regent's first minister, has prevented an Irish member—Mr. Hutchinson.
, after a short interval, stated that he rose with the intention of giving notice of a motion on a subject of the very last importance, and he hoped to be indulged with permission to stale, shortly, his reasons for making the motion of which he was now to give notice.Mr. Hutchinson
 again spoke to order. It was an established rule of the House, that no member, in giving notice of a motion for a future day, should be permitted to anticipate the debate of that day, by assigning the reasons by which he was actuated in giving his notice. The propriety of this rule was apparent, because there being no opportunity afforded on the other side of answering the reasons adduced, an undue prejudication of any particular question might thereby be occasioned. He was aware of the force of this objection on the present occasion, and was desirous of guarding the House and the public against any premature impression which the ingenuity and eloquence of the hon. gent. was calculated and likely to produce.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then gave notice that he should, on the first Tuesday in March, move for the Repeal of the Legislative Union between Great Britain and Ireland.Mr. Hutchinson
 had no objection to this. He could not, however, help observing, that the right hon. baronet's desire to introduce members from different parts of the kingdom, appeared to have escaped his memory very suddenly.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
109ll, in pursuance of notice, made his motion respecting Charitable Donations He observed that it was a subject of great importance—that money bestowed for charitable purposes was in some degree public money, and required public vigilance. He then stated, that, thirty years ago, the amount of contributions was, in personal property, as much as 50,000109llMr. Lockhart
 observed, that the hon. gent. had done him the honour to communicate to him the motion which he had just submitted to the House, together with two others of a similar nature, which he understood it was his intention also to propose. With respect to two of these three motions, he had no hesitation in objecting to them, because they would produce only what would be found in the annual accounts, which by law must be laid before parliament. When those accounts should come before the House, the hon. gent. might extract such parts as he required, and on them found any motion that he thought proper. As to the third motion, he had told the hon. gent. that if he would wait twenty-four hours, he would inquire whether the papers to be produced by it were in the same predicament as those to which he had just alluded, and if not that he would consent to their immediate production.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he understood his hon. friend to wish not for the details of the accounts, but for the result. It was well known that the detailed accounts were never presented until a very late period of the session, and he contended that such a mode of opposition as that resorted to by the right hon. gent. would put a stop to all motions for papers relative to Finance.Mr. Tierney
 denied that these accounts were presented at a period so late as that, described by the right hon. gent. He had no objection whatever to the production of the information, but he saw no reason for departing from the ordinary course.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the opposition of the right hon. gent. quite novel in its kind. During his short experience of parliament, he bad every session seen motions agreed to, for papers in distinct anticipation of the annual accounts. The papers moved for by his hon. friend were indispensible, in order to remove the anxiety which the mutilated statements in the public prints respecting the Revenue, had occasioned in the public mind. It was well known that a large volume of public accounts was usually presented about March; that it was then sent to the printer's, and that it was towards the end of the session before the House obtained that financial information so desirable at an earlier period. It was singular that while the right hon. gent. was opposing the present motion, his noble colleagues had, as he understood, acceded to a similar one in the other House.Mr. Horner
 repeated that he had no objection to the production of the information; but that if the ordinary course was sufficient for that purpose, it appeared to him to be idle to depart from it. If the hon. gent. would withdraw his motion, and give notice of it for to-morrow, by that time he should be enabled to ascertain how far the above observation was applicable to it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 consented to withdraw his motion for the present, and to give notice of it for tomorrow, but not for the reasons alledged by the right hon. gent. He distrusted the financial statement which the right hon. gent. had yesterday made; and he was anxious before that most important subject, the state of the finances, should come to be discussed, that the House should be in possession of all possible information with respect to it.Mr. Fremantle
 proceeded to propose the revival of the Resolution of last session, by which alternate precedence was given throughout the week to Orders and Notices; and for that purpose, moved, "That in this present session of parliament, all Orders of the day, set down in the Order book for Mondays and Fridays, shall be disposed of before the House will proceed upon any motions of which notices shall be entered in the order book."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 allowed that a regulation like the present might afford some convenience to ministers, but contended that it injured freedom of discussion, and impeded members of parliament in the discharge of their duty. The Resolution of last session had been suggested by the inconvenience to public business, which the long inquiries of the two preceding sessions had occasioned. Those inconveniences, however, would probably not recur in the present session, and even if they did, they were not, in his opinion, so weighty as the evils attendant upon the regulation proposed by the right hon. gent. If, however, any regulation of that nature was to be adopted, at least it ought to be one of impartial justice. This had not been the case in the last session, for on days when, by the regulation, notices were to take precedence of orders, ministers had assumed the right of calling for particular orders, on the plea of expediting the public business. For his part, he was against all regulation of the kind; but if any were adopted, he would wish it to go further than that proposed by the right hon. gent.Mr. Whitbread
 maintained, that the regulation in question could in no degree have the effect of injuring freedom of parliamentary discussion. It would still be in the power of any member to bring forward, in cases of emergency, motions without notice, although, in the ordinary course of affairs, it must certainly be deemed advisable, by giving notice of a motion, to prevent that surprise which would frequently other wise compel the House to rescind on Tuesday the business which it had done on Monday. All this would be left in the same state after the adoption of the regulation as before it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
112 concurred in the protest of his hon. friend, against the proposed regulation. He was far, however, from imputing this proposition of the right hon. gent. to any improper motives, He only
112Mr. Abercromby
 objected to this amendment, as a great innovation on the practice of parliament. If it were adopted, the natural consequence of it would be, that all the great business of the nation might be impeded by the second readings of contested private Bills. It was well known that the Committees of Supply and Ways and Means were fixed only the day but one before their occurrence; and should the right hon. baronet's Amendment be adopted, it was evident that all other business, however comparatively insignificant, that might have been fixed at an earlier period for the same days on which those important Committees were to take place, would have precedence of them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 allowed that there was some weight in the objection of the right hon. gent. He admitted that there might be some inconvenience arising from the proposition of his hon. friend; but it was an inconvenience which grew out of the novel practice of the right hon. gent. himself. For his part he had never witnessed any attempt to break in upon the old established usages of parliament, that was not attended with great inconvenience, and he therefore advised the House to pause before it agreed to the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Ponsonby
 supported the Amendment, and declared that he had never known an instance of a debate on a contested private Bill having been carried on beyond six o'clock in the evening.Lord Folkestone
106 said, it would be necessary that some of the documents connected with the motion should be brought down to the latest possible date, and not, as they at present stood, to January 1811. He could assure the right hon baronet, that he never had the smallest intention of depriving him of the fame and glory of originating this measure. He should be very sorry to think that the fame of the right hon. baronet stood on so slight a foundation, as to be affected by such a circumstance. He certainly remembered the occurrence; but, as it did
106The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the substitution of the hon. member for Cork, in the place of another gentleman from the same part of the United Kingdom, could not be objected to; but he could see no good reason for placing the noble lord, who represented a northern part of the kingdom, in the room of Mr. L. Foster.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the nomination of his lordship. He considered that the right hon. baronet had no right to arrogate to himself the exclusive privilege of nominating the members of the Committee. He had already introduced one new name, and, certainly, it was not just, that the second should also be of his proposing. He had no objection to let the Committee stand as it originally did; and, when he considered that that Committee had given the most general satisfaction, he thought it was hardly reasonable that any alteration should be made. If, however, it was thought expedient that a gentleman connected with North Britain should be on the Committee, he would propose Mr. Houston, member for Glasgow, as a very fit person.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not mean to accuse the right hon. baronet of attempting to make the exclusive nomination of the Committee. If he had used the word exclusive, it was merely in reference to the two new members.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
117116115 thought that, though there were sufficient grounds for opposing the motion, from the nature of the proposition which is involved, it was not sufficient merely to oppose
117116115The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion, that no Amendment could be made to the motion before the House. The proper course appeared to him to be, to move the postponement of the motion, for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.The Speaker
126 held, that it had been the
126The Speaker
 said, he had already stated what was the order of proceeding in that House.The Speaker
 The right hon. gent. is right. If the orders of the day are disposed of, no member has a right to make a motion without the permission of the House.The Speaker.
 I conceive that the hon. member is not proceeding in a right course. I should like to know whether the hon. member is making a motion, or giving a notice.The Speaker.
"I thank you for this dutiful and loyal Address. Your assurances of the continuance of your support in the great contest in which we are engaged, are highly gratifying to me, and I have the greatest satisfaction in receiving the new proof of your affection and loyalty to the King, my father, which is afforded by your readiness to provide amply and suitably for his comfort and dignity under the pressure of the severe calamity with which it has pleased the Almighty to afflict him.""Gentlemen, reported to the House, that his royal highness the Prince Regent, having been attended with their Address of yesterday, was pleased to receive the same very graciously, and to give the following Answer:
"I thank you for this dutiful and loyal Address. Your assurances of the continuance of your support in the great contest in which we are engaged, are highly gratifying to me, and I have the greatest satisfaction in receiving the new proof of your affection and loyalty to the King, my father, which is afforded by your readiness to provide amply and suitably for his comfort and dignity under the pressure of the severe calamity with which it has pleased the Almighty to afflict him.""Gentlemen,Lord G. Thynne
, after an experience of 30 years as a member of that House, entirely agreed with the Speaker as to the usage laid down by him.Mr. Burton
103 presented a Petition from a number of persons imprisoned for debt in the Isle of Man, (of which place they were not natives), praying the intervention of the legislature in their behalf. The hon. and learned gent. stated, that the Petitioners were the same persons whose grievances had been laid before the House in the course of the last session. When the Bill for the relief of insolvent Debtors
103Mr. Horner
121, in explanation, said he had read the whole of the resolution, but
121Mr. Brougham
120119118 fully subscribed to all that had been said in praise of colonel M'Mahon, but was not the more satisfied with the manner in which the official situation to which he had been appointed, had been
120119118Mr. Brougham
122 rose to address the House under evident feelings of agitation. He said he did not expect that he should have had to defend himself on an occasion like the present. He had, indeed, been appointed one of the Masters in Chancery, and he hoped his vigilant and conscientious discharge of the duties of that office would prove, at least, the sincerity of his wish to justify the preference that had been shewn. He could not, however, but consider it as somewhat unkind, that a motion like the present should have been made, and no previous notice of it given, that those who were to be attacked might be, at least, allowed time to prepare their justification. For himself, he was not present when the hon. gent. made the motion; and he had been able to collect its import only from the various explanations that had been entered into. He could not, however, sufficiently express his disapprobation of that system which was now becoming so prevalent, of inferring the impossibility that a member of parliament, holding a place under government, should be able to discharge his parliamentary duties conscientiously and with integrity. This was a morality not very much to be admired, and it was a gratuitous supposition very little honourable to the human character. For himself, without any offensive egotism or arrogance, he believed that he was as capable of feeling and acting independently at the present moment, as he was before he accepted the appointment alluded to. He would be bold to say, indeed, that no situation, no prospective, no actual reward, could influence him in his conduct as a member of parliament—nor did he mean to assume to himself a degree of virtue which he was unwilling to suppose in others. He had no doubt that when the hon. mover himself was Secretary to the Board of Controul, he discharged his parliamentary functions as uprightly and as honestly as he now did. He wished to think so, at least, and he was willing to hope it was so. But why did the hon. gent. inveigh with so much bitterness against those who held situations under government? Why did he consider it as a thing so beyond the probabilities
122Mr. Stephen
 observed, that the last speaker had wished one of the late appointments had not been noticed, and he also could have wished that one bad been omitted—that of the Clerk of the Council. That office was not a new grant. It had been given to the hon. gentleman 25 years ago, and he had succeeded to it by the death of its late holder, instead of obtaining it by a new grant. Perhaps the hon. gentleman was not aware that a new writ had that day been moved for in the room of that gentleman, on account of his receiving that office. He was surprised to hear the last speaker say that the communication made to colonel M'Mahon on his appointment, only proved that government were conscious they were acting wrong, and then go on to state that the only reason for its not being abolished in the time of general Fox, was that he held it by a tenure, of which it was thought he could not with justice be divested. It was because ministers were aware that such was the impression on general Fox's mind, and foresaw that one similar might have been made on that of colonel M'Mahon, if notice were not given that such an objection would stand no longer. The hon. gent. opposite bad omitted to read part of the Resolution produced, which went to suggest the regulation of sinecures. It was necessary that it should be stated that that resolution had not been forgotten, and that colonel M'Mahon had only received the grant subject to such regulation as parliament might hereafter think proper to make.Mr. Croker
 remarked, that if the House were disposed to deal with that office at all, it was still open for them to do so, without injustice.Mr. Croker
123 observed, that the hon. and learned gent. who had just sat down, had displayed rather more warmth than the occasion seemed exactly to demand. He agreed, however, with his hon. friend (Mr. Brougham) that it would have been better if the hon. mover had adverted to the situation of the Master in Chancery earlier, or not at all. No appointment had taken place with more publicity at the time, or had been more before the public: and if any thing was to be objected to, the proper lime for bringing forward such objection would have been at a less recent period than the present. He was happy, however, to admit the, great fitness of the hon. and learned gent. for the station which he filled, and which he was far from regarding as a sinecure, He conceived, indeed, that the intention of the hon. mover was not to censure the appointment, individually, but generally the practice of rewarding political votes by such appointments. In adverting to the case of colonel M'Mahon he was not of opinion that the hon. gent. opposite (Mr. Croker) had entirely removed all its objectionable qualities. The principal feature of blame in the transaction was, that of appointing him, during the recess of parliament, to a situation which every one must know to be a sinecure, and therefore an incumbrance upon the public purse, and fit only to be abolished. Ministers, he thought, might, with more decency, have waited till, parliament met, for there were no duties attached to the situation which called so imperiously for performance, that the omission of them would have, been injurious to the public
123Mr. Whitbread
 replied, that the objection was, that the appointment recognised a principle which he regarded as highly dangerous and reprehensible, that of bestowing public money without adequate service for it.Mr. Whitbread
 acquiesced, and moved as an Amendment, that the House would tomorrow se'nnight resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, in order to give an opportunity in the interim, for the consideration which he had suggested.Mr. Creevey
ll observed, he had not, said that the situations of clerk of the council, and master in chancery, were-sinecures but he had complained that two new placemen, the one holding a situation of 1,000llMr. Creevey
114113 rose and insisted upon the necessity imposed upon the House of examining into several subjects connected
114113Mr. Creevey
 said, he would, under all the circumstances, consent that the Committee should consist of the same members as last year, with the exception of the hon. member for Cork, in the room of Mr. M. Fitzgerald. This could not, he thought, be opposed, as it was merely an exchange of members from the same side of the House.Sir J. Newport
108 denied that the nomination of the Committee was with him. It was exactly constituted as proposed by the right hon. gentleman last year, with the exception of two names; therefore it was he who bad the nomination. It was his wish that members should be taken from all sides of the House; and it could not be disputed that the gentlemen on the opposite side were fully represented, He
108Sir J. Newport
 said, his wish was to have gentlemen, from every part of the kingdom on the Committee. He then proposed his Committee, which was the same as that of last session, with the exception of the hon. member for Cork, and lord A. Hamilton.Sir J. Newport
107 said, there certainly had been an understanding that those papers which came in, when the Report was in a state of forwardness, should be then examined. It was not of that he complained; but of the introduction of a, new principle, an endeavour to account for the defalcation in the revenue of Ireland, from accidental and temporary causes. As to the members of the Committee, he would propose no alteration from last session; with the exception of
107Sir John Newport
105***104 said, in rising to make his promised motion for the reappointment of the Select Committee on the Public Income and Expenditure of Ireland, he should not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with many words, as the measure had been recommended from the throne, but he felt it proper to account for his making a motion, which, on the first view, might seem to come more properly from ministers. In doing this, he must call their attention to certain circumstances which had taken place in the last session. It would be recollected, that he had endeavoured to bring the subject of Irish Finance under the consideration of the House, a long time since; and the propriety of a Finance Committee originated with him. In the last session of parliament, notice of a defalcation in the revenue of Ireland was taken by the House. Several sessions preceding, he ineffectually endeavoured to call their attention to this object, which was certainly one of very considerable moment. However, the evil went on increasing
105***104Sir John Newport
136135134133132, in rising to move the Thanks of the House to the different persons for whom he should propose them, thought it necessary to state, that though, undoubtedly, the recent great and glorious exertions which had led to the conquest of Java, would most particularly call for notice, yet it would not be just to the persons concerned, if the House were to take so narrow a view of the subject, as to confine its attention to that achievement alone. To the conduct of the governor-general of India he should particularly call their attention. To the wise and well arranged plan which he had formed, was, in a great degree owing that ultimate success with which our arms bad been crowned. At the commencement of the present war, an intimation had been given to the East India Company, to guard them against expending large sums in expeditions against the French East India islands. Intelligence, however, was received by the governor-general of India, in the year
136135134133132The Chancellor of the Exchequer
142, after the discussion that had already taken place, would not occupy much of the time of the House, and the more so as there had been expressed no difference of opinion with regard to the melitary merit of the expeditions in question.
142Mr. Grant
143 professed his decided conviction that lord Minto had justly earned the thanks of the House, by the skilful and judicious plans which he had directed to be put in execution. In quitting his government, it was impossible that he could
143Mr. Rose
145 began by disclaiming any motives which might arise out of political or private acquaintance with the noble lord who was the object of the motion, in advocating the present vote of thanks. He would not go into any detail of the circumstances of the achieve-
145Mr. Secretary Ryder
 then moved, "That the thanks of this House be given to lieut. general the hon. John Abercromby, for his able and gallant conduct and meritorious exertions in effecting, with rapidity, the entire conquest of the important island of Mauritius:—To lieut. gen. sir Samuel Auchmuty, for the decision, skill, and energy manifested by him, in the command of the forces of his Majesty and of the East India company in the late operations in the island of Java, by which the honour of the British nation has been gloriously sustained, and additional lustre has been reflected on the reputation of the British arms:—To vice-admiral Albemarle Bertie, and to rear-admiral the hon. Robert Stopford, for their cordial co-operation, and the essential service rendered by them in the late operations in the Eastern seas:—To major-generals Henry Warde and Frederick Augustus Wetherall, and to the several officers of the army, both European and native, for their gallant conduct and meritorious exertions in the late successful military operations in the Eastern seas:—To commodores William Robert Broughton and Josias Rowley, and to the several captains and officers of his Majesty's naval forces employed in the late operations in the Eastern seas, for their skilful, gallant, and meritorious exertions in the reduction of the enemy's settlements in that quarter of the globe:—That this House doth highly approve and acknowledge the zeal, discipline, and bravery, uniformly displayed by the non-commissioned officers and private soldiers, both European and native, employed against the enemy in the several operations in the Eastern seas; and that the same be signified to them by the commanders of the several corps, who are desired to thank them for their gallant behaviour:—That this House doth highly approve and acknowledge the services of the seamen and royal marines serving on board his Majesty's ships employed in the late operations in the Eastern sead; and that the same be signified to them by the captains of the several ships, who are desired to thank them for their gallant behaviour."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 ridiculed the idea of a man of sir S. Auchmuty's abilities being sent out on an expedition with a nurse to superintend him. The House need not refer to the Deputies of the French Convention alone, to convince them of the impolicy of setting civil masters over military commanders, for if they looked to the wars of prince Eugene and the duke of Marlborough, the same fact was rendered most evident. Neither, in later days, could he think the sailing of far-famed sir William Curtis from the Downs, had any good effect en the Walcheren expedition. He bestowed a high panegyric on sir S. Auchmuty, to whose decision and temerity in, attacking Fort Cornelis, together with the valour of the army, he attributed the salvation of the whole force. On this ground he would give his negative to the vote of thanks to lord Minto, as decidedly as He would with satisfaction give his affirmative to the other votes.General Tarleton
141140139 observed, that he had taken a far different view of the subject from
141140139Mr. Yorke
 objected to the vote of thanks to lord Minto, because he conceived that noble lord to have done little, if indeed he had done any thing, which could entitle him to so high an honour. Perhaps he rather deserved censure for some of the acts which had marked his visit to Java, one especially of which was to give freedom to all the slaves the moment lie arrived; a proceeding which he could not but condemn, as they were the most blood-thirsty fellows imaginable. The hon. baronet then read some extracts from a private letter, which he had received from India, the purport of which extracts was to cast a portion of blame upon some of the actions of lord Minto, and he concluded by submitting to the House, whether they could, with any propriety, pass a vote of thanks to his lordship; though at the same time, he was entirely of opinion that every praise should be bestowed upon the gallant achievements of general Auchmuty and the army serving under him.Sir Henry Montgomery
 thought the House ought not to come to this resolution till they had further documents on the subject, as, at present, they saw nothing to justify lord Minto for going out of his government. The hon. ex-director who spoke last on this occasion seemed willing to set aside a very good rule observed in another place, namely, never to vote thanks or a pension for services in India, till the party returned, and his whole conduct had gone under review and consideration: In his opinion, lord Minto had enough to do at the seat of government, and his absenting himself was extremely censurable. Neither could any thing be more improper than for a civil officer to go as a check with a military force; as an example of which, he had heard that if it had depended on lord Minto's opinion, the expedition would have been abandoned altogether on the eve of its accomplishment. He would therefore give his vote against the motion.Mr. P. Moore
138137 said, that he had not a moment's hesitation in concurring with the right hon. gent., that no thanks the House could bestow would be an adequate reward for the gallantry and discipline displayed by the British army; but however ungracious the task might be, he could not prevail upon himself to say, that the same claim existed on behalf of lord Minto, to justify the pompous phraseology employed in the motion just read. In the first place, it ought to be made oat, that it was not only extremely essential to the success of the undertaking, but that it was absolutely necessary that the governor-general should forsake his station at Bengal, to enter on a voyage for six weeks or two months, to be present at the conquest of Batavia. Nothing but absolute necessity could justify the forsaking of the trust reposed in him elsewhere, Much merit had been attributed to lord Minto from the circumstance, that, at the time the dispatches from this country, authorising him to undertake the expedition against the Mauritius, every thing had been pre-
138137Mr. Sheridan
144 said, that he had paid every attention to the subject under discussion which it seemed to him to require, and was sorry, therefore, that a vote of thanks should have been proposed to lord Minto, for, howeven unwillingly he
144Mr. Whitbread
 said, he could not give a silent vote on this occasion, when he heard a right hon. gent. near him compare the conduct of his noble friend, lord Minto, in accompanying the expedition to Java, to the exercise of civil control which the deputies of the French Convention exercised over the generals in the early period of the Revolution. He thought his noble friend most eminently merited the vote of thanks proposed, as it was evident that his ably-conceived and well-digested plan had wrested from France her last and best possession in India. With respect to what had been said of his noble friend's conduct in Corsica, he would only say, that it would bear the strictest investigation. He should be sorry to revive the controversy on this subject, and particularly as his noble friend was ever ready to bear his warmest testimony to the military merits and high character of the gallant person alluded to.Mr. Elliot
 agreed with the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, as to the motives by which it was evident lord Minto must have been influenced in his temporary departure from the seat of government. He thought, also, that the right hon. gentleman who opposed the motion, should have proved that during lord Minto's absence, any risk to the civil government was incurred, or that any injury was actually sustained. This, however, he believed could not be done. He regretted also, that it should have occurred to the right hon. gentleman to compare his superintendance of the military expedition to Java, to the controul exercised by a deputy of the French directory. With regard to that responsibility which every commander ought occasionally to assume to himself, in defiance of the strict line marked out for him by the government at home, he thought it the prime feature of a British commander, and it was such a responsibility that lord Nelson took upon himself when he quitted his station in the Mediterranean, and proceeded to the West Indies in quest of the French fleet. Under all the circumstances, therefore, he could not reconcile to himself to give a silent vote in favour of a man who had deserved so well of his country; of a man who had incurred every risk of responsibility which success might justify, but which, had he failed, would only have subjected him, perhaps, to ignominy and censure—As to the statements of the hon. baronet, he himself had seen private communications of a very different tendency. While, however, he was in favour of the motion, he could not refrain from saying a few words as to the policy of the capture; and here, he was afraid, it might be justly said, that if we were to send; British troops to keep it, we had gained a loss. We had not the means of sending out troops to garrison the country; and ought rather to communicate freedom and commence to the natives, for the purpose of rendering them independent of every European power.Mr. Fremantle
sl17. "That during such suspension, there be charged upon all rum, brandy, spirits, aqua vitas, or strong waters, (except rum of the produce of the British plantations), imported into Great Britain, and for which the duties chargeable thereon shall not have been paid on the 14th of January, 1812, or imported after that day, an additional duty of. 12slds16. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 7dsds15. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, made or distilled in Scotland from sugar, and imported and brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 7dsds14. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength made or distilled in England from sugar, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 6ds150ds13. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 9dsds12. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits which shall be found in the stock, custody, or possession, of any distiller of spirits in Scotland, for exportation to England, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, mad" or distilled from corn or grain in Scotland, and imported or brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 9dsds11. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength, made or distilled from corn or grain in England, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 8dsl10. "That during such a suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus therewith connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called, or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines, or spirits in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 5ld1499. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine
d149d8. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits, in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 7dl7. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English-wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus there with connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines or spirits from sugar, in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 162ld6. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for every higher or lower degree of strength, which shall be made of distilled in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, not exceeding the number of gallons of spirits limited and restricted to be distilled by or from each still, to be paid over and above the duty on the licence or content of the still, and the duty on the wort or wash front which such spirits may be made or distilled, an excise duty of 5dd5. "That during Such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 8¼dds4. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon of wort or wash brewed or made for extracting spirits in England, for home consumption, from sugar, an excise duty of 1ds1483. "That during any period in which the distillation of spirits from corn or grain in Great Britain shall be prohibited, the duties on worts or wash made in Great Britain for extracting spirits, and the duties on spirits made in Great Britain, and on spirits made in Ireland, and im-
1482. "That it shall be lawful for his Majesty by proclamation, at any time after the 1st of Oct. 1812, if in his royal discretion he shall judge it to be for the benefit and advantage of this kingdom, either to terminate such prohibition from a time to be specified, not less than 30 days from the date of the said proclamation, or further to continue it from the said 31st of Dec. until 30 days after the then next meeting of parliament.1. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that from and after the 1st of February, 1812, and until the 31st of Dec. 1812, no worts or wash for distillation in any part of Great Britain shall be made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any mixture with the same; nor shall any worts or wash, which shall have been made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any other mixture with the same, in any part of Great Britain, be distilled after the 15th of Feb. 1812.
sl17. "That during such suspension, there be charged upon all rum, brandy, spirits, aqua vitas, or strong waters, (except rum of the produce of the British plantations), imported into Great Britain, and for which the duties chargeable thereon shall not have been paid on the 14th of January, 1812, or imported after that day, an additional duty of. 12slds16. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 7dsds15. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, made or distilled in Scotland from sugar, and imported and brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 7dsds14. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength made or distilled in England from sugar, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 6ds150ds13. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 9dsds12. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits which shall be found in the stock, custody, or possession, of any distiller of spirits in Scotland, for exportation to England, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, mad" or distilled from corn or grain in Scotland, and imported or brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 9dsds11. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength, made or distilled from corn or grain in England, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 8dsl10. "That during such a suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus therewith connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called, or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines, or spirits in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 5ld1499. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine
d149d8. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits, in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 7dl7. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English-wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus there with connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines or spirits from sugar, in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 162ld6. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for every higher or lower degree of strength, which shall be made of distilled in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, not exceeding the number of gallons of spirits limited and restricted to be distilled by or from each still, to be paid over and above the duty on the licence or content of the still, and the duty on the wort or wash front which such spirits may be made or distilled, an excise duty of 5dd5. "That during Such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 8¼dds4. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon of wort or wash brewed or made for extracting spirits in England, for home consumption, from sugar, an excise duty of 1ds1483. "That during any period in which the distillation of spirits from corn or grain in Great Britain shall be prohibited, the duties on worts or wash made in Great Britain for extracting spirits, and the duties on spirits made in Great Britain, and on spirits made in Ireland, and im-
1482. "That it shall be lawful for his Majesty by proclamation, at any time after the 1st of Oct. 1812, if in his royal discretion he shall judge it to be for the benefit and advantage of this kingdom, either to terminate such prohibition from a time to be specified, not less than 30 days from the date of the said proclamation, or further to continue it from the said 31st of Dec. until 30 days after the then next meeting of parliament.1. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that from and after the 1st of February, 1812, and until the 31st of Dec. 1812, no worts or wash for distillation in any part of Great Britain shall be made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any mixture with the same; nor shall any worts or wash, which shall have been made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any other mixture with the same, in any part of Great Britain, be distilled after the 15th of Feb. 1812. rose for the purpose of proposing certain Resolutions recommending the Prohibition of all Distillation from Grain in Great Britain, for a time to be limited. He regretted that the comparative failure of the crop for the last year had rendered it necessary to resort to the same expedient. The principles upon which the question rested, had already met with such ample discussion in that House, that he should not think it necessary to enter at all into its abstract merits. He had, however, merely to state, that as the Revenue might suffer materially if the duties resulting from spirits distilled from grain were to expire as soon as the prohibition commenced, it had been thought advisable that the duties should be transferred to spirits distilled from sugar. After some further observations, expressive of the necessity for resorting to the restriction, and his regret, that such a measure should be necessary, the right hon. gentleman moved the following Resolutions:
sl17. "That during such suspension, there be charged upon all rum, brandy, spirits, aqua vitas, or strong waters, (except rum of the produce of the British plantations), imported into Great Britain, and for which the duties chargeable thereon shall not have been paid on the 14th of January, 1812, or imported after that day, an additional duty of. 12slds16. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 7dsds15. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, made or distilled in Scotland from sugar, and imported and brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 7dsds14. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength made or distilled in England from sugar, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 6ds150ds13. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 9dsds12. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits which shall be found in the stock, custody, or possession, of any distiller of spirits in Scotland, for exportation to England, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, mad" or distilled from corn or grain in Scotland, and imported or brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 9dsds11. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength, made or distilled from corn or grain in England, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 8dsl10. "That during such a suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus therewith connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called, or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines, or spirits in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 5ld1499. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine
d149d8. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits, in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 7dl7. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English-wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus there with connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines or spirits from sugar, in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 162ld6. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for every higher or lower degree of strength, which shall be made of distilled in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, not exceeding the number of gallons of spirits limited and restricted to be distilled by or from each still, to be paid over and above the duty on the licence or content of the still, and the duty on the wort or wash front which such spirits may be made or distilled, an excise duty of 5dd5. "That during Such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 8¼dds4. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon of wort or wash brewed or made for extracting spirits in England, for home consumption, from sugar, an excise duty of 1ds1483. "That during any period in which the distillation of spirits from corn or grain in Great Britain shall be prohibited, the duties on worts or wash made in Great Britain for extracting spirits, and the duties on spirits made in Great Britain, and on spirits made in Ireland, and im-
1482. "That it shall be lawful for his Majesty by proclamation, at any time after the 1st of Oct. 1812, if in his royal discretion he shall judge it to be for the benefit and advantage of this kingdom, either to terminate such prohibition from a time to be specified, not less than 30 days from the date of the said proclamation, or further to continue it from the said 31st of Dec. until 30 days after the then next meeting of parliament.1. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that from and after the 1st of February, 1812, and until the 31st of Dec. 1812, no worts or wash for distillation in any part of Great Britain shall be made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any mixture with the same; nor shall any worts or wash, which shall have been made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any other mixture with the same, in any part of Great Britain, be distilled after the 15th of Feb. 1812.
sl17. "That during such suspension, there be charged upon all rum, brandy, spirits, aqua vitas, or strong waters, (except rum of the produce of the British plantations), imported into Great Britain, and for which the duties chargeable thereon shall not have been paid on the 14th of January, 1812, or imported after that day, an additional duty of. 12slds16. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 7dsds15. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, made or distilled in Scotland from sugar, and imported and brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 7dsds14. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength made or distilled in England from sugar, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 6ds150ds13. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of all such spirits as last aforesaid, of a greater strength than that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and not exceeding three per centum over and above the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, an excise duty of 9dsds12. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits which shall be found in the stock, custody, or possession, of any distiller of spirits in Scotland, for exportation to England, of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, mad" or distilled from corn or grain in Scotland, and imported or brought from thence into England, an excise duty of 9dsds11. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits of a strength not exceeding that of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for any higher degree of strength, made or distilled from corn or grain in England, and imported or brought from thence into Scotland, an excise duty of 8dsl10. "That during such a suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus therewith connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called, or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines, or spirits in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 5ld1499. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine
d149d8. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits, in the highlands of Scotland, for consumption in the said highlands, an excise duty of 7dl7. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English-wine measure, of the cubical content or capacity of each and every still, including the head and every part thereof, and of any horn, pipe, tube, or other apparatus there with connected, under whatever name or denomination the same may be called or known, as high as the steam can ascend, and until the top of the head shall turn downwards, and form an angle of 45 degrees, which shall be used or employed for the purpose of making or distilling low wines or spirits from sugar, in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 162ld6. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of spirits, of the strength of one to ten over hydrometer proof, and so in proportion for every higher or lower degree of strength, which shall be made of distilled in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, not exceeding the number of gallons of spirits limited and restricted to be distilled by or from each still, to be paid over and above the duty on the licence or content of the still, and the duty on the wort or wash front which such spirits may be made or distilled, an excise duty of 5dd5. "That during Such suspension, there be charged for every gallon, English wine measure, of wort or wash, brewed or made from sugar, for extracting spirits in the lowlands of Scotland, for consumption in Scotland, an excise duty of 8¼dds4. "That during such suspension, there be charged for every gallon of wort or wash brewed or made for extracting spirits in England, for home consumption, from sugar, an excise duty of 1ds1483. "That during any period in which the distillation of spirits from corn or grain in Great Britain shall be prohibited, the duties on worts or wash made in Great Britain for extracting spirits, and the duties on spirits made in Great Britain, and on spirits made in Ireland, and im-
1482. "That it shall be lawful for his Majesty by proclamation, at any time after the 1st of Oct. 1812, if in his royal discretion he shall judge it to be for the benefit and advantage of this kingdom, either to terminate such prohibition from a time to be specified, not less than 30 days from the date of the said proclamation, or further to continue it from the said 31st of Dec. until 30 days after the then next meeting of parliament.1. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that from and after the 1st of February, 1812, and until the 31st of Dec. 1812, no worts or wash for distillation in any part of Great Britain shall be made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any mixture with the same; nor shall any worts or wash, which shall have been made or brewed from oats, barley, or any other corn or grain, or from malt, flour, or bran, or any other mixture with the same, in any part of Great Britain, be distilled after the 15th of Feb. 1812.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
151 did not rise to object to the Resolutions, but to complain of the change that had been wrought in the constitution of the country, by the usage that had silently grown up amongst the people, of looking for the relief of the respective grievances of different trades and interests, to the executive government, and not to the constitutional source of appeal and redress, the parliament. He did not wish to impute any blame to the right hon. gent for the course he had pursued; but he regretted that a practice had been silently growing up, which seemed to have rendered such a course of proceeding in some measure excusable. The government, however, had no reason for not acting decisively; for since July last the King's.
151Mr. Ponsonby
 complimented the right hon. gent, on the candid manner in which he had made his observations; at the same time he could not admit the existence of what had been called the growing practice of those without doors. When parliament was not sitting, the parties interested could only apply to the executive; and even if parliament had then been sitting, the prohibition could not have been earlier than it was now to be.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 gave notice, on the part of a noble friend then absent (lord G. Cavendish), that that noble lord would, on Monday se'nnight, submit to the House a motion respecting the present State of Ireland.Mr. Ponsonby
 wished to know if the right hon. gent, would have, any objection to state more specifically the object of the noble lord's motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that the motion of his noble friend would relate to the present State of Ireland generally, and more particularly to the existing state of the Catholic population of that country.Mr. Ponsonby
2. "That it is expedient that provision be made for defraying the expences incident to the assumption of the personal exercise of the royal authority by his royal highness the Prince Regent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty."l1. "That for making provision for the due arrangement of his Majesty's Household and for the exercise of the royal authority during the continuance of his Majesty's Indisposition, and for the purpose of enabling the Queen to meet the increased expence to which, in consequence of such indisposition, her Majesty may be exposed, there be granted to his Majesty, out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain, for that period, the additional yearly sum of 70,000l
2. "That it is expedient that provision be made for defraying the expences incident to the assumption of the personal exercise of the royal authority by his royal highness the Prince Regent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty."l1. "That for making provision for the due arrangement of his Majesty's Household and for the exercise of the royal authority during the continuance of his Majesty's Indisposition, and for the purpose of enabling the Queen to meet the increased expence to which, in consequence of such indisposition, her Majesty may be exposed, there be granted to his Majesty, out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain, for that period, the additional yearly sum of 70,000llll160lll110,0101811
110,0101811143,8941810
143,8941810193,1421809
193,142180989,2381808
89,2381808138,4061807
138,4061807£.163,636In 1806
£.163,636In 1806
110,0101811
110,0101811143,8941810
143,8941810193,1421809
193,142180989,2381808
89,2381808138,4061807
138,4061807£.163,636In 1806
£.163,636In 1806lllll159lllllllll158lll157l156ll155154153 said, that in rising to submit to the Committee those measures, which, under existing circum stances, it might be proper for them to adopt, he felt it to be impossible to avoid adverting to what had been the course pursued in the last session of parliament. In doing this, it was not his wish to revive those controversies which had then taken place, but to take a proper view of what was the present state of the great object of their deliberations, as compared with hat it was at the former period. The House must feel with great regret the difference between the situation in which they were placed at present and that in which they had formerly stood. When last the subject came under their consideration, they could not but recollect how sanguine were their expectations of his Majesty's speedy recovery, and they must necessarily bear in mind what now was the prospect before them. Then, they had reason to hope that before any great length of time had elapsed, the Sovereign would be enabled to resume his kingly functions; but now, unfortunately, the prospect was very much darkened. In stead of having before them statements from the attendant physicians, declaring there was a great probability of his recovery, they had it now, on the authority of the same persons, that recovery was very improbable, although not altogether hopeless. It was impossible not to see that different circumstances must call forth different measures. The course of human action must necessarily be guided by events. It was not for men to foresee what would actually occur, and their best plans could only be formed to meet that which could rationally be expected. Formerly, when recovery was probable, it was their duty primarily to look to the restoration of his Majesty to health, and to the exercise of the sovereign authority, but, at the same time, to guard against any inconvenience that might arise from the temporary suspension of the kingly functions: now, when recovery was stated to be highly improbable, it was for them to look primarily to the improbability of his Majesty's resuming the sovereign power, not leaving out of sight that it was possible he might yet recover. Formerly, they were called upon to make and arrangement which it was probable circum-
2. "That it is expedient that provision be made for defraying the expences incident to the assumption of the personal exercise of the royal authority by his royal highness the Prince Regent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty."l1. "That for making provision for the due arrangement of his Majesty's Household and for the exercise of the royal authority during the continuance of his Majesty's Indisposition, and for the purpose of enabling the Queen to meet the increased expence to which, in consequence of such indisposition, her Majesty may be exposed, there be granted to his Majesty, out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain, for that period, the additional yearly sum of 70,000l
2. "That it is expedient that provision be made for defraying the expences incident to the assumption of the personal exercise of the royal authority by his royal highness the Prince Regent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty."l1. "That for making provision for the due arrangement of his Majesty's Household and for the exercise of the royal authority during the continuance of his Majesty's Indisposition, and for the purpose of enabling the Queen to meet the increased expence to which, in consequence of such indisposition, her Majesty may be exposed, there be granted to his Majesty, out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain, for that period, the additional yearly sum of 70,000llll160lll110,0101811
110,0101811143,8941810
143,8941810193,1421809
193,142180989,2381808
89,2381808138,4061807
138,4061807£.163,636In 1806
£.163,636In 1806
110,0101811
110,0101811143,8941810
143,8941810193,1421809
193,142180989,2381808
89,2381808138,4061807
138,4061807£.163,636In 1806
£.163,636In 1806lllll159lllllllll158lll157l156ll155154153The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l165l164163162161 rose and said:—Sir, the
l165l164163162161Mr. Ponsonby
167166 observed, that permitting the Resolutions to lie on the table, would give no insight whatever on the subject. Indeed, as such a proceeding would remove them farther from the consideration of the plan, as laid down in his statement, it would probably render the difficulty greater. They were pursuing the regular course of proceeding, as those Resolutions would come to nothing, except in the shape of a Bill. He was aware, when he made his statement, that the subject was a very complicated one, and, from time to time, he had expressed his apprehension to the Committee, that he should not be able to make it perfectly intelligible. In doing that, however, he referred the more detailed and accurate consideration of the plan to a future period, when the Bill should be brought in. Without those Resolutions being agreed to no Bill could be formed, and no intention
167166The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lsaid, that he had not expressed a wish, or manifested a feeling, whereby the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer could, in fairness, suppose, that he was inclined to aggravate the malady of his Majesty by a denial of any comfort which was proper for his situation. He only said, that there was not in the evidence one syllable or tittle which could give birth to the notion, or imagination, or dream of that middle state of recovery, on the hope of which the right hon. gentleman formed one of the branches of his arrangement. If he was to be asked whether he wanted to deprive his Majesty of every necessary comfort or every enjoyment compatible even with a state of recovery, he would answer, that the Civil List was in the hands of the Prince Regent; and that it was absurd and unfeeling to suppose that his royal highness would not take every care of his father. During the discussions of the last year, the Prince had been often calumniated; but to suppose that he would be thus unnaturally neglectful of his royal father's lamentable condition was, above all others that had yet been flung upon him by the right hon. gentleman, the grossest calumny, the foulest imputation. This should be shortly his reply; and with it he would content himself, as being quite unanswerable by the right hon. gentleman. Before he sat down, he begged to be allowed to ask one question; namely, whether in granting to his royal highness the 100,000lMr. Ponsonby
168 said, he had proposed nothing to the House connected with any claim of his Royal Highness on the arrears of the Duchy of Cornwall. He had formerly expressed his opinion, that it was a mistaken idea to suppose that any ground of claim did really exist. And as far as he could recollect the course of the debates upon the subject,
168The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he did not want to know the right hon. gentleman's reasons, one way or the other; but had merely asked him, yes or no, as to the fact.Mr. Ponsonby
l176l175 felt himself called upon to offer a few observations, in consequence of the particular appeal which the right hon. gentleman bad thought proper to make to him, in the course of his speech. He begged leave to recal to the recollection of that right hon. gentleman, and of the Committee, that he had not drawn such a conclusion as was ascribed to him in the course of the observations which he had the honour to submit to their consideration that night, and he begged leave distinctly to disclaim all that reference to Parliamentary Reports, and the Annual Register, which the right hon. gentleman had thought proper to ascribe to him, and as for the extract from the Journals, which he had read, he was almost inclined to think that he had read it then for the first time. To recur, however, to what he had advanced in the course of the statement which he had the honour to submit to the Committee, he could not recollect that he had advanced any thing which expressed an opinion on the subject of those claims alluded to by the right hon. gentleman. He had been asked by one right hon. gentleman whether he had an Intention of bringing any thing forward on the subject of the revenue of the Duchy of Cornwall, to which he had a twofold answer to give. In the first instance, he had not any intention of bringing forward any mention of those claims, as he had always been of opinion, that there was no ground for them; but be had never stated that he had any instructions on the subject from his Royal Highness, nor after such a testimonial as had been read by the right hon. gentleman, was it likely that he should have received such instructions, nor was it consistent with the honour of the Prince, after directing, in terms, his law officers to relinquish the suit, in consequence of the aid afforded him by parliament. It was as little reconcileable with the enlightened mind and acknowledged abilities of the right hon. gentleman, to ima-
l176l175The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said he did not rise to protract the debate, but merely to mate an observation on the insufficiency of Carleton house to accommodate the number of servants who must necessarily be in attendance in the household of the Regent. He therefore thought that an additional sum of a few thousands should be voted, and could not be of any material consequence.Mr. C. Adams
ll172lllllllll0lllllll171pro tanto170169l said, he should not then express any opinion on the sum of 100,000ll172lllllllll0lllllll171pro tanto170169lMr. Tierney
174173l did not intend to say any thing on the present occasion, but an expression had fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in answer to a question from his right hon. friend, at which he was very much surprised. The question was, whether or not, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made no allusion to the Duchy of Cornwall, he considered the claim of the Prince of Wales as entirely abandoned? He answered that he had made no allusion to it: that in his opinion, the claim was utterly abandoned; and, looking to the course of the debates on the subject, the House, he believed, had been of the same opinion. Now, what was the fact? In the year 1802, when the present lord Manners, then Mr. Sutton, brought down the Message on this subject to the House, there was a general feeling in favour of the justice of the claim, and great credit was given to the Prince for not pursuing it at that time. In 1803, his Majesty's Message recommended the consideration of the Prince's debts to the House; and the 60,000174173lMr. Sheridan
 explained. The right hon. gentleman, he said, had not correctly stated the observations he had made. He believed the right hon. gentleman was as well versed in grammar as any man, and yet he was under some misapprehension here, for the words of the Message he had read certainly did not go to a positive relinquishment of his claims by his Royal Highness, but expressly mentioned, that although his royal father and parliament should exercise their liberality towards him, yet that, unless he had some further provision towards satisfying the claims of his creditors, he could not consider his right impaired, though he withdrew his suit at law against the King his father. He did not mean to say that the claim should be now revived, but be denied that it had been relinquished; and he would venture to say, if the right hon. gentleman' looked over the Journals before he went to bed, he would have the Candour to come down on the report tomorrow, and declare his error. He really wished he could hare some specific promise from him on the subject. In fact, most of the great legal authorities at that time (with the exception, perhaps, of the right hon. gentleman) had declared their opinion of the validity of the Prince's claims. The Master of the Rolls, if present, could confirm the opinion he then gave; and lord Thurlow had been of the same opinion.Mr. Sheridan
llll that he entirely coincided in what had fallen from the last speaker; his opinion decisively was, that the Droits of Admiralty ought to be given up for the benefit of the public. This question, however, was now in the hands of an hon. and learned friend of his, quite able to do it justice. He now wished to advert to another subject, the arrangements of the household. By the plan of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it was proposed to vote 170,000llllMr. Brand stated,
l190lllllllllll189l said, that I he did not clearly comprehend what it was that he was called upon to explain by the hon. gentleman. He did not even know after all the hon. gentleman had said, whether both their views of the subject were not alike. The hon. gentleman, however, seemed to labour under one particular error, which was, that 70,000l190lllllllllll189lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 conceived that the hon. gentleman meant the, observation to be generally applied, for so he understood him in terms.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll observed, that of the 70,000llMr. Yorke
 from the Secretary of State's Office, presented a Comparative Statement of the Population of the several Counties of Great Britain, in the Years 1801 and 1811; shewing the Increase or Diminution thereof: together with the present State of the Returns called for by an Act of the last Session of Parliament.Mr. Mitford,
l179lsss178 said, he would take the present opportunity of making a few observations on the subject matter of the Account then before the House. No regular Census had beep attempted to be taken of the population of England, Scotland, and Wales, until the year 1801, when the right hop, gentleman, who now filled the chair of that House, brought in a Bill for that purpose.—The right hon. gentleman said, that he, in the last session, had had the honour of introducing the measure, under which the late enumeration was made; and he had great pleasure in stating to the House, that, in the course of the last ten years, since the Census of 1801, an increase of population, to the amount of more than one million and a half, had taken place. In England that increase appeared to be in a ratio of 14 per centum; in Wales 12 and in Scotland 13 This, increase in the amount of the population, exhibited an extent and duration unexampled in the history of this country; and what rendered it still more surprising was that the increase of the males was as great as that, of the females. The total population of England, Scotland, and Wales, in 1801, was 10,472,048; at present it amounted to 11,911,644; making an increase of 1,439,596 persons, actually
l179lsss178Mr. Rose
 observed, that he had formerly moved for Accounts in order to ascertain the amount of the Poor's Rate, and had written a pamphlet on the subject, which were proofs that it had not escaped his attention.Mr. Rose
 of Kerry, agreed with the hon. and learned gentleman in the propriety of instituting a Census for the population of Ireland, and stated as the result of his own personal inquiries and information, that the population of Ireland had been long rapidly augmenting.Mr. Herbert,
l5. "That 659,750ll4. "That 3,675,750lsl3. "That 4,453,312sldsll2. "That a sum not exceeding 3,845,875dsll1. "That 145,000 men be employed for the sea service for the year 1812, including 31,400 royal marines:
l5. "That 659,750ll4. "That 3,675,750lsl3. "That 4,453,312sldsll2. "That a sum not exceeding 3,845,875dsll1. "That 145,000 men be employed for the sea service for the year 1812, including 31,400 royal marines: said, that in the present circumstances of the country, it would not be expedient to reduce the number of seamen; and he should propose to the House, therefore, that the same number be voted for this year as for the last. He then moved,
l5. "That 659,750ll4. "That 3,675,750lsl3. "That 4,453,312sldsll2. "That a sum not exceeding 3,845,875dsll1. "That 145,000 men be employed for the sea service for the year 1812, including 31,400 royal marines:
l5. "That 659,750ll4. "That 3,675,750lsl3. "That 4,453,312sldsll2. "That a sum not exceeding 3,845,875dsll1. "That 145,000 men be employed for the sea service for the year 1812, including 31,400 royal marines:Mr. Yorke
 then moved the following Miscellaneous Services for the year 1812 which were, agreed to.Mr. Wharton
 said that he had heard the subject a good deal discussed by the commissioners, whose opinions seemed to be, that a smaller plan would not answer the purpose.Mr. Fitzgerald
, evidently much Affected, replied, that with regard to the loss incurred it was certainly but too true. The ships and the stores were of little importance, but the number of gallant lives destroyed by that unfortunate accident was important indeed. With regard to the circumstances by which we had sustained so great a loss, they were entirely owing to those accidents of wind and weather which it was impossible to for see and to provide against. The ship Hero, the loss of which we had also to lament, was cast away, owing, he believed among other causes, to a fault in the navigation, and not making allowance for the current which prevailed in those seas. It was a matter that deserved consideration, in order to correct the error in the navigation in the North Roads, and by that means to provide against such occurrences hereafter. With regard to the ships alluded to in the hon. gentleman's question, he could state that orders were issued from the Admiralty, directing that no ships should remain in the North Seas after the 1st of November. The weather however prevented the convoy, from arriving until the 17th of that month. In the storm one of the vessels fell foul of the other, which by the shock lost its rudder. After the Defence was sunk, the St. George was driven on shore, but expectations were entertained of her weathering out the storm, so much so that the admiral did not shift his flag, as he might have done. Unfortunately, however, those expectations were not realized. As to the detention of the convoy, it was owing entirely to the state of the weather; and so far was the admiralty from being to blame, that many applications were made for convoys to the Baltic, at a later period, and were refused.Mr. Yorke
196inquired whether it was
196Mr. Hutchinson
 replied, that as he should have another and a better opportunity of entering into the subject, he did not now think it necessary to give any direct answer.Mr. Yorke
198197 said, that in rising to move for a Committee to examine into the State of the Nightly Watch of the Metropolis, he did not feel it necessary to enter at any great length into the reasons by which he was induced to bring forward such a motion. At the same time, he felt himself justified in stating, that if the expediency of the measure rested upon the late horrible murders alone, by which two whole families had been completely exterminated, the atrocity of those crimes would in themselves have afforded a sufficient ground. It was true that no system of police could prevent the commission of such murders, while there were persons vile and abandoned enough to commit them, under such circumstances of dextrous depravity; but as a better regulation of the Nightly Watch must have a tendency to diminish the chances, it was right that it should be resorted to. Those gentlemen who had seen other countries, and attended to their internal situation and government, must know that even in places where the peace was committed to the care of an armed police, a police furnished with all those powers, with which under a despotism it was possible to furnish it, without, any regard to the prejudices of the people; they must know, that even in such places and under such regulations, atrocities such as those were committed almost nightly, without exciting any of those deep impressions under which the mind of this country at present suffered; and it might be regarded as a proof, that few acts of the kind were committed here, when they looked to the consternation excited in the present instance. It certainly was true, that for the last three or four months, offences, though Hot altogether of so horrid a description, were multiplied beyond the experience of former years; and though many accounts had
198197Mr. Secretary Ryder
l20220120014241810
1424181013141809
1314180911101808
1110180810171807
10171807899In the year 1806
899In the year 1806
14241810
1424181013141809
1314180911101808
1110180810171807
10171807899In the year 1806
899In the year 1806199 said, he was utterly surprised at the confined terms of the motion just made by his right hon. friend. No one, he was persuaded, who was acquainted with what had recently passed, and with the alarm and terror which had spread throughout the metropolis, but must have expected that some more extensive measure would have been resorted to than that now under consideration. He should have thought, that a Committee appointed upon such an occasion, would have found it necessary to inquire, not only into the state of the Nightly Watch, but into the causes of the alarming increase of felonies and crimes; and he was sure, that a comprehensive view of this kind would be more calculated to produce the desired effect than the contracted course recommended by his right hon. friend. He had no other means than were common to every one of informing himself upon the different facts connected with this question; but no doubt, he imagined, could exist of the increase of crimes of an atrocious character, whatever opinion might be entertained of the causes
l20220120014241810
1424181013141809
1314180911101808
1110180810171807
10171807899In the year 1806
899In the year 1806
14241810
1424181013141809
1314180911101808
1110180810171807
10171807899In the year 1806
899In the year 1806199Sir Samuel Romilly
211 professed himself unable to understand the bearing of the noble lord's observations. He could not conceive what the Pension List had to do with the question before the House. He had no objection to the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned gent. provided he would consent to substitute the word "further," for the word "also," in order that the primary object of the Committee might be that which he thought a
211Mr. Secretary Ryder
 acquiesced in the alteration of the word in the motion.Mr. Abercromby
212l begged leave to make a few observations on what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary. The right hon. gent. talked of the great exertions which the police officers had made during the last two months. Did he recollect that a reward of upwards of 700212lSir S. Romilly
l213 expressed himself happy to find that a suspicion, which he confessed he had entertained, namely, that an advantage would be taken of the alarm of the public mind to extend the police of the metropolis, had proved to be unfounded. As to the motion itself, it was utterly impossible for him to oppose it for an instant. Indeed, he was convinced that if the system of nightly watch were made, what in his opinion, it could easily be made, the necessity of any police whatever might be precluded, as the possibility of committing any crime would be prevented. This, however, could not be done on the present principles. But if the country chose to revive the old law of Edward the first, by which every county and parish was made responsible to every householder for the losses he might sustain, and by which every householder was compelled it his turn to watch for the protection of others, effectual security would be afforded to the community at large, without the immediate interference of any police, and the respectable part of the population, thus accustomed up the use of arms, might be rendered available to the defence of the kingdom, in the event of invasion by a foreign enemy; or at least would be competent to repress all internal disturbances. Hoping that some plan of this sort was in the contemplation of government, he gave his complete assent to the motion. He was very happy that the amendment had received the concurrence of the right hon.
l213Sir F. Burdett
214, in acceding to the amendment, begged to disclaim all idea of imputing misconduct in the case of the police magistracy, either as to their appointment in the first instance, or with respect to their conduct on the present critical occasion. He had not at first thought it necessary that the words of the motion should be enlarged, because he conceived it to be a matter of course, that all necessary means of establishing security would be enquired into by the Committee. An hon. and learned gentleman had himself practised
214The Chancellor of the Exchequer
208207206205 could not doubt, that under all the circumstances of the case, the House would have no hesitation to agree to the motion of his right hon. friend; for having paid every attention to the arguments of the two hon. members who had spoken on the opposite side, he found that those arguments were directed not against the proposition, but against its limited nature. It mast, now ever, be considered, that the motion of his right hon. friend related to a subject which could not be passed over in a morning or two, and which therefore would not bear to be loaded with alt the theoretical considerations which his hon. and learned friend on the opposite side had suggested. Indeed the subject' to which the Committee would have to direct
208207206205The Chancellor of the Exchequer
210209 observed, that the objection of his hon. friend to the motion of the right hon. gent. was, that it was too narrow in its limits. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been more distinct on the subject than the right hon. mover. He had said, that the object waste provide a practical remedy for a practical evil. Now in order to see which argument was the more correct, that which asserted that the proposed object of the Committee was sufficient, or that which asserted that it was not sufficient, let the House but consider the nature of the evil which was intended to be removed. He perfectly agreed with the right hon. gent. that however the general feeling might be harrowed by the late horrible murders which had been perpetrated, yet that those murders were not the grounds on which the appointment of a committee ought to rest; but that those grounds must be founded in the general increase of crimes which the law and the police were found incompetent to check. How; be would ask, could the appointment of a Committee to consider merely the state of
210209Mr. Abercromby
 was sorry to detain the House, but could not omit noticing the levity with which a right hon. gent. (Mr. Sheridan) had treated the question, as, indeed, he treated most subjects before the House. He could not conceive his motive for attacking his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State, and for asserting that he never had a conference with a magistrate, although his right hon. friend, in his speech, had positively asserted the contrary. He could not conceive his motives, which, however, he attributed to patty-spirit. As to the right hon. gent's assertions, he would not say they were not true, because it was un-parliamentary, and departing from the solemnity of the debate; but he would beg the right hon. gent's pardon, in saying, that he could not possibly believe them.Mr. Mathew Montague
 said, if such was the pleasure of the House, the right hon. gentleman would proceed.The Speaker
 expressed a hope, that what had passed that night would make such an impression on the minds of gentlemen who were appointed Chairmen of Committees, as would call their attention particularly to the subject.The Speaker
 said, that the Committee had every reason to be obliged to the right hon. gentleman for calling their attention to the subject. The fact was; that great extravagance had prevailed in that department at different times. He supposed the Chairman of the Committee must have been generally imposed on. The House had already taken notice of these expensive plans, and determined as a check in future, that nothing should be published upon paper larger than a journal sheet without application to him. In furtherance of this Resolution, he had taken care not to give his sanction to any more expensive undertakings, unless when told by the Chairman of a Committee that it was indispensibly necessary. As to the case to which the right hon. gentleman particularly alluded respecting the scale of the plans of the bogs in Ireland, it was drawn in that country, and originally upon a much larger plan; on his objecting to it a smaller one was adopted, accompanied at the same time by a statement that a smaller one would not be sufficient to explain the subject to the House. Undoubtedly, if it was necessary to mark all the subdivisions, a smaller could not well be adapted, and the Committee might recollect that they were executed under the parliamentary commissioners appointed by the act for the Drainage of Bogs in Ireland.The Speaker
 wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman meant to, make a complaint against the person alluded to, because it was rather a novel thing to introduce newspapers, and make references to them in the manner the right hon. gentleman had done. In reminding the House of the novelty of the right hon. gentleman's proceeding, he had performed his duty, and it was for them to decide whether the right hon. gentleman should go on or desist.The Speaker
 ascribed the origin of the evil complained of, to the Pension List, and to the various other modes by which individuals of the higher classes, and particularly members of that House, partook of the public money, without performing any public service. The enormous expenditure of the state, to which such abuses contributed, had the effect of grinding the lower classes, and of driving them to the commission of offences of which they otherwise would have never thought.Lord Cochrane
 said, he did not impute any thing to the right hon. gentleman whose conduct he was certain was perfectly proper on the occasion; but he thought it his duty to call their attention to the fact itself. Some means ought to be devised by Parliament to prevent the recurrence of such practices.Mr. Tierney
 begged leave to take this opportunity of calling the attention of the House to what appeared to him to be a most shameful waste of the public money. He alluded to the extravagant manner in which plans and plates were printed, and particularly to those of the Bogs of Ireland, which were executed in a manner rather calculated to adorn a library than to instruct members in the subject they were in tended to illustrate. The expence was become so heavy, that he was sure he should be pardoned for troubling the Committee on the subject.Mr. Tierney
182181180 participated in the great satisfaction expressed by the right hon. gentleman, at the flourishing increase of
182181180Mr. Brougham
221, considering the situation in which the magistrates were placed; thought them entitled to indulgence, and even to compassion. The numerous arrestations for which they were so much blamed, proceeded from those numberless in formations created by panic, and to which they owed Williams's apprehension. If, however, the right hon. gent. was right in his statement, if the magistrates had encouraged prejudices, if such prejudices actually existed against a brave and a generous nation, he thought them highly reprehensible. But he must suppose the right hon. gent. to have been misinformed; he could not believe that any man of sense could entertain the idea that the individuals of any of the nations composing the population of these realms, could be more inclined to crime than any others, and he strongly deprecated the idea. He owned that some neglect had attached to the magistrates in not seeing Williams properly watched; but he denied, that in his burial they had gone beyond the law against suicides, or done more than the state of the public mind required. He attributed the late increase of offences more to the negligence of the nightly watch, than to the state of the police, which in many instances could not possibly prevent them. In support of this, he stated that his next-door neighbour, in Great Ormond-street, in the parish of St. Andrew and St. George the Martyr, had his house broke open, and considerable property stolen there from. This was done on the part of the thieves with the utmost deliberation, and it was ascertained that no watchman had been seen that night in the street. On enquiry it was found, that by a recent and most whimsical regulation, the watchmen of that parish were allowed two dead flights in the week; that was,' they were allowed to absent themselves two nights without fear of being reported, and it so happened that all the watchmen had taken the night of the robbery for one of their dead nights. The hon. and learned gent. believed that many of the crimes which swelled the list produced by his hon. and.
221Mr. Stephen
 observed, that the right hon. gentleman, on a motion for printing a document, had addressed the House, at some length, on one subject which was, and one which was not before them. As to the paper which was on the table, it carried evidence of its falshood on the face of it. It was stated to be a document shewing the strength of the empire. If it was so, why was Ireland not included? The population of England, Scotland, and Wales, was 11,000,000 And were the six million of Ireland to be forgotten; many of whom were then fighting the battles of the empire, and made part of that army and navy which swelled the list then before the House? If Ireland was really considered as part of the effective strength of the empire, it was a criminal deficiency to omit her population.Mr. P. Moore
192 said, be would not urge the matter farther. He hoped his conduct had always been sufficiently respectful to the Chair and the House. He could assure the Speaker, however, that in the course of
192Mr. Sheridan
 wished to say a few words respecting the Massage of the Prince in the year 1803 mentioned last night. It appeared that this Message had not only been misunderstood by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but that it had also been misunderstood out of doors and in particular, that the editor of a very respectable morning paper, the Morning Chronicle, had fallen into precisely the same mistake. With the permission of the House he would read the passage he alluded to—Mr. Sheridan
220219218217216215 began by animadverting upon what appeared to him to be the extraordinary conduct of the right hon. Secretary of State, upon a subject of such delicacy and importance. After the alarms that the recent atrocities had spread throughout every part of the metropolis; after the general and feverish anxiety of the public for redress and protection, down came the right hon. gentleman to that House, and in order to remove at once, and effectually allay all alarm and anxiety whatever, solemnly proposed that a Committee should be appointed to inquire into the state and condition of the nightly watch! This would have been at any time the meekest of all meek propositions; but at the present crisis it was not only the meekest, but he must beg-the right hon. Secretary's pardon, if he added, the silliest proposition that could possibly have been made. The state of the nightly watch! Why, what became of the act of parliament that created in each parish the appointment and controul of those watchmen? Were not the provisions of that act sufficient, if carried into effect, to provide for and maintain the peace of the metropolis? And if they were, had the magistrates or those persons entrusted with carrying those provisions into effect, done their duty? Had not the several parishes ample powers to enforce the regulations of the act, and secure their respective peace and safety? But though by the laws the power was lodged in each parish, they were now called upon to enquire into the state of the nightly watch. Why not go further and move for an inquiry into the state of the parish nurseries? (a laugh). But the right hon. Secretary came before them
220219218217216215Mr. Sheridan
222 said, that he was sure the hon. gent. had other motives, that restrained him from using such language, than the mere apprehension of seeming too solemn: for his part, he was free to acknowledge, that if the hon. gent. had called his assertions untruths, that instead of looking upon it as a proof of excessive solemnity, he should have rather received it as an instance of absolute vivacity in that hon. gent. For the right hon. Secretary of State he professed the highest respect; and as the hon. gent. was so much at a loss to account for his motives in attacking the right hon. gent. so much so, indeed, that he had repeated it six times, he would tell him, that his only motives were motives of public duty; and if the hon. gent. as a member of parliament, was unacquainted with such motives, he could only say that he was very sorry for it.222Mr. Sheridan
195 begged leave, before the Chairman left the chair, to put a question which he feared should rather have been proposed when the vote for the seamen was proposed. The subject, however, had excited so much agitation in the public mind, that he trusted he should be
195Mr. Whitbread
 repeated that he did not mean to impute the slightest blame to any individual. He was perfectly satisfied with the right hon. gentleman's statement, and with, the feeling which, he manifested on the occasion.Mr. Whitbread
 appeared at the bar, with the Report of the Resolutions relative to the arrangement of his Majesty's Household, On the question that the Report be brought up.Mr. Lushington
l191 restated his objections, notwithstanding the explanation of the right
l191Mr. Brand
 in explanation, stated, that he had confined his observations to the 4½ percent. fund. He would pledge himself to prove that grants had been made.Mr. Creevey,
188lll rose and said, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he un derstood him correctly, had calculated that the sum of 120 or 130,000188lllMr. Creevey
l was disposed to vote any sum which could contribute to the comfort of his Majesty; but he must object to the manner in which that splendour and comfort was proposed to be afforded, and to creating a new Civil List revenue. He wished to know why the whole of the Civil List establishment was not transferred to his royal highness the Prince Regent. Was it from any distrust of the Prince that it was not to be so transferred? Did the right hon. gentleman suppose that his Royal Highness would not render all the comforts to his royal rather and sovereign of which he stood in need? If it was necessary, he would give his Royal Highness 3 or 400,000lMr. Fremantle
204203 could not refrain front making a few observations on the, present important subject, although he could not hope to add any weight to the arguments so ably urged by his hon. and learned friend. He regretted, however, that his hon. and learned friend had sat down, without proposing an amendment, for the
204203Mr. W Smith
l227 said, as it was his wish that the Bill should be committed on Friday, it was desirable that the second reading might be as near to the going through a Committee as possible; and for that purpose he moved that the second reading should be on Thursday. He had not the smallest objection to communicate to the House whatever
l227The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l moved, "That a sum not exceeding 100,000lThe Clancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that he had intended the words to apply both retrospectively and prospectively, and had no objection to introduce those expressions into his motion. He certainly meant that the sum should cover the expences both of the temporary regency, which his Royal Highness had passed through, and of the permanent regency into which he was about to enter. No dangerous precedent could possibly be afforded, because in the event of the demise of the crown, the Regent would of necessity succeed to the property of the crown, and no parliamentary grant could then be required.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 proposed, after the word "expences," to introduce the words, "which have been or may be."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
234 said he was ready to absolve the right hon. gentleman from any pledge he might suppose himself to have given, however glad he might have been that the vote should have received a support which carried with it so much weight. If the promise had been inadvertently given, and without deliberate consideration, he should not think that he acted with reciprocal liberality, if he rigidly insisted on its performance. In his view of the subject, the Speech delivered at the commencement of the session contained every thing that was necessary to meet the question; and with respect to what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend over the way (Mr. Adam), although it might not be received with the same degree of authority it formerly possessed, surely there could be no reason why his arguments now should not receive that attention which they generally deserved. If there was any thing in what he stated, it was this that it would be becoming in his Royal Highness to send down a Message to the House for a grant of money, not to be applied to reward the public services of another, but to be disposed of for the private purposes of the Prince Regent. What did the Speech of the Lords Commissioners say upon this subject? His Royal Highness is "satisfied that you will
234The Chancellor of the Exchequer
230 thought that the hon. gentleman seemed to have forgotten,
230Mr. Secretary Ryder
l233 observed, that as he had before stated that he should not vote against the Resolution, he would keep his word with the right hon. gentleman; but he lamented that he had so far pledged himself, without due consideration. Not an instance could be found, where the House, without a single document laid before it to shew that any sums had been expended, or a single reason assigned, had come to a determination to grant a hundred pence, much less a hundred thou-sand pounds. It might be true that the Prince Regent had been put to considerable expences, but it ought to be stated to the House in an official form, When lord Nelson, for his glorious victories, was made a peer of the realm, having no fortune, undoubtedly it was the wish of all, that a sum of money should be granted to
l233Mr. Tierney
229l apprehended, that at least his Royal Highness should have been advised to send a message to the House on the subject. He did not think parliament justified in asking his Royal Highness to accept of 100,000229lMr. Tierney
228 said, that although he felt it personally unpleasant to make any remark on the present grant, yet the broad duty which he owed, to the public was imperious, and he would discharge it. The Prince Regent had now executed the functions of Regent for twelvemonths, and when all the expences attendant on the assumption of that office had been over,
228Mr. Tierney
llllll226llllllll225llllllllll224llll223l observed, that from an examination of the estimate laid before the House, of the annual charge upon the Civil List revenues, framed in 1804, and the accounts of the disbursements for the seven following years, certain productions appeared to him to be necessary, before he could consent to give his vote for the second reading of this bill. It was impossible to understand from the papers which had been already produced, what arrangement it was necessary to make, or whether the sums which they should grant might exceed or fall short of what the occasion demanded. From these papers it appeared that the expenditure of the Civil List exceeded the revenue by upwards of. 124,000llllll226llllllll225llllllllll224llll223lMr. Tierney
ex necessitate rei expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the Resolution. The assumption of the office of Regent was, ex necessitate reiMr. Hurst
232 said, that neither the speech of his hon. and learned friend, nor the remark just made, had in the least degree convinced him that a Message from the sovereign power was not necessary to enable the House to adopt the resolution proposed. At the time of the first constitution of the Regency, when a message was brought down to parliament, stating that the prince of Wales did not
232Mr. Whitbread
l could not allow this question to pass without making a few observations. However invidious it was to oppose such a grant for his Royal Highness, under the present circumstances, still, he felt it his duly, as a member of parliament, to oppose the vote until such a Message should be sent down to the House as was usual in such cases. The country had last year given great credit to his Royal Highness for the communication which he had caused to be made to the House, of his intention of not laying any additional burthens on the country, for the expences he might be put to in assuming the Regency. For this communication his Royal Highness had most deservedly obtained great credit; but having so received it, he thought that it appeared somewhat extraordinary, that a sum of 100,000lMr. Whitbread
231 maintained that the Prince Regent might very well last year claim no expence whatever, from the natural expectation that the Regency would soon be at an end; but the House would recollect, that there was a great difference between the situation of his Royal Highness then, and his situation now. Were the situation the same now as it was then, he was confident that his conduct would also be the same; but there were various circumstances which distinguished the one period from the other. It was certainly the most ungracious mode of proceeding possible, to allow his Royal High? ness to seek that, which, though he might very naturally expect, he would also as naturally feel a reluctance to ask; and if the practice of parliament did not stand in the way of a contrary proceeding, he should certainly think it by much, the most becoming and suitable. But he contended that the practice of parliament
231Mr. Adam
264ll said that his hon. and learned friend had stated truly to the House, that there were two questions to be decided; the one, whether the crown had any right to the revenue in dispute; the other, whether, supposing the right established, it was proper that it should be left so? His hon. and learned friend had maintained that the revenue of which his Majesty had undertaken the administration, did not of right belong to his Majesty; in doing which, however, he had admitted, that till the time of the Revolution, no branch of the revenue whatever was appropriated, until the passing of the civil list acts. In order to shew that his majesty was not dealing with, as his own, that which was not his own, he should refer to those acts; and as the most convenient order, he should begin with the last, and so follow up the series. In the 1st of the present king, by which 800,000264llThe Attorney General
, in consequence of a domestic calamity (the death of the hon. William Cavendish) postponed the motion, of which, on behalf of a noble friend of his (lord George Cavendish), he had given notice, for Monday next, until Monday fortnight.Mr. Ponsonby
 rose to second the motion, of which he cordially approved.Sir W. Curtis
 stated that the corporation of London had it in contemplation to build a Penitentiary House in the city.Mr. Alderman Combe
239 rose, not to throw any impediment in the way of a subject which had been already too much delayed, but to call the attention of the House to the Report of its Committee in the year 1798. The subject, indeed, had not engrossed an attention proportionable to its importance; but by reference to that Report, it would be seen, that after mentioning the great number of persons on; board the hulks, together with their different periods of imprisonment, they strongly recommended to the legislature the adoption of the excellent plan proposed by Mr. Bentham. Two sessions ago the subject had been resumed, and was referred to the subsequent session: yet two years had elapsed, and government still persisted in their system. The House would do great injustice to Mr. Bentham's plan, unless they read the printed Report of 1798; and he could not but express his surprise that the present Committee should object to what was so strongly recommended by a former Committee, which had mentioned in terms of high praise the great advantages of the employments and industrious habits which formed the peculiar character of Mr. Bentham's plan" This advantage, and another equally great,—he meant the economy of that project,—had been strangely disregarded by the subsequent Committee. The small expence of Mr. Bentham's scheme had, indeed, been accounted for from the circumstance of his allowing only one room for the convicts to sleep in; this, he was
239Sir Samuel Romilly
 paid a high compliment to the talents and benevolence of Mr. Bentham, and to the excellence of his plan, and cautioned the House against forming an opinion of it solely from the terms of the proposed contract, since such was the confidence reposed in the proposer, that many necessary points left at his discretion were there omitted. As one of the Committee appointed two years ago, he had visited Newgate, and found that none of the defects of that prison were owing to the conduct of the keeper, but entirely to the insufficiency of its accommodations.Mr. Abercromby
240, in pursuance of the notice which he gave on a former evening (see, p. 213) moved," That there be laid before this House forthwith, a List of the names of the persons who have been appointed to be Police Magistrates under the act 32 Geo. 3, c. 53, or under any subsequent act of parliament, specifying the counties in which they were at the time of their appointment, and now are acting justices, stating where their qualifications ace, and what they are, and whether they hold any other office under government,
240Sir F. Burdett
 said, that his hon. and learned friend (Sir S. Romilly) on a former evening (see p. 199) in stating the comparative increase of crimes in the metropolis, had inadvertently fallen into an error. His hon. and learned friend had said, that the increase from 1805 to 1810, amounted to 525 criminal cases. Now in the statement of the num-number of commitments in the year 1809, his hon. and learned friend had unintentionally, made it 1,342 instead of 1,242; and in the number committed in 1810, he had included those sent for trial to the sessions of the peace for the county of Middlesex, as well as to the Old Bailey. He allowed that an increase of 208 committals had taken place—not 525 as advanced by his hon. and learned friend. To place the fact in its true point of view, he should move," That there be laid before this House, a Return of the number of persons charged with criminal offences committed to the different gaols in the cities of London and Westminster, and county of Middlesex, for trial at the several Sessions held at the Old Bailey, in the years 1806,1807,1808, 1809, and 1810.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 begged to assure the right hon. Secretary, that the mistake was not made on his part, but must he with the right hon. Secretary himself. The numbers he had stated were taken from the returns on the table of the House; and he could certainly pledge himself to the accuracy of his statement. Although he had not those returns now before him, yet his memory was very tenacious on that point, and he would even from recollection state them to him again. In 1806 the number was 899; in 1807, 1,017; in 1808, 1,110; in 1809, 1,242; and in 1810, 1,424. It was true, that in some of the newspapers the right hon. gentleman might have found his statement misrepresented, but if he had been attended to himself, there would have been no cause for the present complaint of inaccuracy.Sir S. Romilly
 persisted in his former assertion, and explained particularly that his hon. and learned friend had stated the increase on the whole of the years to be 525, when it was actually 208.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 vouched for the accuracy of his hon. and learned friend's statement.Lord Ossulston
 passed a high encomium on the speech of the hon. and learned mover, and maintained that several acts of the legislature proved indubitably that the Droits of Admiralty were not solely vested in the crown, but were also under the controul of parliament.Captain Herbert
l269, in allowing the merit of eloquence to the hon. and learned mover, claimed for Mr. Stephen that of sound reasoning, and considered the speech of the latter gentleman as a plain and distinct answer to whatever had been advanced on the other side of the House. He defied the hon. gentleman to point out a single abuse, and could not conceive the difference they had attempted to draw between prizes, which no one disputed, to the king, and the Droits of Admiralty, which were the objects of the present motion. He maintained, that if the crown had not possessed the means and the power of indemnifying naval officers, many of the gallant men who had so
l269Mr. Rose
 said he would state in a few words the grounds and object of his vote. He did not wish to consider how the money had been applied, nor did he charge misapplication of it on any individuals; for in that case, the business would have come under the consideration of parliament, in a very different form from the present. His view was to inquire, as these funds were of a permanent nature, and were likely always to exist, who ought to have the controul over them. No doubt in any future appropriation of those funds, a great part of them in any case would be applied as heretofore. But the question was, who was to have the controul of it? Surely it ought to be parliament; and to say that no misapplication had yet taken place, was really no answer; if there was a possibility of misapplication, it was the duty of every member of parliament, who did not wish to depart from his public duty, to provide against any such possibility of abuse. The luminous and masterly statement which his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had that night submitted to them, would have astonished all who heard him, were it not known, and had he not by his eloquence on former occasions, sufficiently satisfied every man that he was one of the most powerful and considerable persons in that House.Mr. Abercromby
273272l271l saw no particular weight in the question which had been just put, to make any member alter his opinion on this subject. There was as wide a distinction between the case which he had supposed, of the sum of 430,000273272l271lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
275àjure coronœ274 thought the right hon. gentleman, although he had touched on some of the collateral points of the question, bad left out every material consideration. He had urged the inconsistency of supposing that government would go to war from unjust considerations, merely for the sake of the Droits to the crown. The astonishing fact, however, was well known, that there had been ministers of the country who have actually plunged it into war from such unjust considerations. A great part of the right hon. gentleman's speech was directed to the qualities and qualifications of the hon. and learned gentleman who brought forward the motion, and to the conduct of a former administration; but that had nothing to do with the argument. What the liberty of the subject called for, was what they ought to consider. In the present day, parliament was really so ornamented with gentlemen of the learned profession, that arguments were now listened to, that would at a period which was not beyond his experience have been rather coldly received in that House. It was in the nature of man to desire power, and nothing could be more constitutional than to watch with an eye of jealousy over every source of revenue which was not under the controul of parliament. It was a fact, that a king might, as king, be now poor, with his civil list in debt, yet with private property to a very considerable amount. He was glad to find that some doctrines, which had formerly been very coolly maintained in that House, were now relinquished
275àjure coronœ274Sir Francis Burdett
 said, it was with extreme reluctance he got up. He perfectly coincided with his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney). He could not agree that the crown had ever bargained for its rights; but he was of opinion, that the king of this country could not have a shilling of revenue without being liable to the examination of parliament, the crown had a right to the revenue, but the parliament had a right to enquire into it. After giving the question his full consideration, he was obliged to say, that he could not give his vote for the resolutions of his hon. and learned friend.Mr. Ponsonby
 opposed the amendment, but had no objection to the production of a paper similar to that which brought the Account down to May 1810, to bring it down to the present time. When the question before the House was disposed of, the right hon gentleman, if he pleased, could move for it; otherwise he would do it himself.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
277l276 said, that he should esteem himself wanting in private friendship to the hon. and learned mover, if, while he differed from him as to the mode of his Resolutions, he did not acknowledge the great display of talent which he had evinced. From the reports of the King's physicians, it might be with decency pronounced that a demise of the crown might be expected at no very distant period: it became therefore the duty of parliament to manifest their sense on this important subject of Admiralty Droits before that event took place, that the people might be convinced they were willing to meet their wishes as far as possible. He should not
277l276Mr. Tierney
llll observed, in explanation, that his hon. and learned friend was mistaken as to the precedent of grants to the royal family being first given during Mr. Fox's administration from the papers it appeared, that in 1805, when Mr. Pitt was in office, there had been a grant of 26,000llllMr. Brougham
, in reply, maintained strenuously, that the bargain between the sovereign and the parliament had been abrogated, and that the crown ought not, with safety to the constitution, to retain such immense sums at its disposal.Mr. Brougham
l259258lll257llllljure coronœ256lllllllll255l254253252251l250249l248delivered upon the case by the Judges. In volume 6, p. 906 of the same work, is related a very curious anecdote respecting the Opinion of Sir George Croke.lv247***l246245ll244**ll*ll243ll242, in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to call the attention of the House to a question, which was simply this, Whether the crown had the power to use certain funds, certain enormous sums of money, without any grant from parliament, or even without its privity? This was a subject of the gravest importance, inasmuch as it involved the consideration of the best privilege of the House of Commons; of that privilege,—the power of granting or refusing the supplies,—which was the great and the only security that the people had in their representatives against the influence and encroachments of the crown. He need only state thus briefly the general nature of the subject, for the House at once to perceive the necessity of being alive to its importance; but he would humbly suggest, that it was now, more than at any other time, the imperious duty of the House to look to the assertion of their privileges: now, that an arrangement was on foot, which ought not to be finally settled before some decision was adopted as to these alleged rights of the crown. Without any affectation, he could say, most sincerely, that it was to him a cause of great regret, that this most important subject had not fallen into abler hands; conscious as he was, of the unequal powers with which be advanced to its consideration; but comparatively unequal as he was to the task; however unable he might be to do it a full measure of justice; yet as it had devolved on him, he would not shrink from it. The subject matter had often come incidentally before the House; it had frequently been the topic of passing
l259258lll257llllljure coronœ256lllllllll255l254253252251l250249l248delivered upon the case by the Judges. In volume 6, p. 906 of the same work, is related a very curious anecdote respecting the Opinion of Sir George Croke.lv247***l246245ll244**ll*ll243ll242Mr. Brougham
lllll268ll267lllll266, while he conceived the Droits of the Admiralty to be the property of the crown, did not carry the argument the length of contending that the House had no controul over them, though he denied that there was any occasion for a previous approval by parliament of any appropriation of them. His hon. and learned friend who brought forward the present motion, did not argue the case as if the crown exercised a usurpation over this fund, but as if he doubted whether the crown did so or not. The right however, he (Mr. Stephen) conceived to be indisputable. His hon. and learned friend agreed, that previous to the revolution, the right was in the Lord High Admiral; and was not that office put in commission by the king? If the right was in the admiral before, it seemed to follow that it must now be in the crown. The words of lord Clarendon, addressed to Charles the 2nd, which his hon. and learned friend had quoted, seemed even to favour this idea; his lordship telling his majesty that he, not his people, would be abominably cozened, by suffering the profits of this office to remain unaccounted for at the exchequer.—With respect to those disputes which might have arisen at different periods of our history as to the distribution of these droits, they were rather disputes between the king and the captor, or the Lord High Admiral and the captor, than between the king and the public. He could not help thinking that his hon. and learned friend had been a little strong in his phraseology, when he said, that all
lllll268ll267lllll266Mr. Stephen
261l rose to second the motion. When he looked to the manner in which ministers and the law-officers of the crown had supported the claim of the crown to the funds in question, he felt-alarmed, lest by any thing he might say he should weaken the argument which bad been so very ably Urged by his hon. and learned friend. It was, in his opinion, a doctrine almost axiomatical in the constitution, that this House ought to have the disposal of all the revenue of the crown. The temptation which led to an act of warfare prior to a declaration of war was very great; but the power which it gave to ministers was such as to render it dangerous to the liberties of the people. He understood that there was a great sum of money arising from Droits of Admiralty, disposable at the will of the Prince Regent; and he was determined not to give his vote for another shilling, till an account was laid before the House how that money had been applied. He would suppose that the Prince would not have the power to re-originate the bargain which had been spoken of as made in the commencement of his Majesty's reign; but still he thought, that during the period that he had been Regent, there must have fallen in a variety of items which ought to have been given credit for. If it should appear that no less than 250,000261lMr. Brand
263262d, in rising for the first time, disclaimed any idea of emulating the eloquence of the hon. and learned mover; nor, as to legal argument, would he attempt to follow the hon. and learned gentleman; but he must say, that it appeared to him, even from his own statement, that the laws and authorities upon which he relied were all of a very ancient date, and antecedent to the Revolution. The practice, as it now existed, had existed for a great number of years: during which time a number of most acute intelligent lawyers, and men extremely jealous of the prerogative of the crown, had satin that House, and never questioned the right of the crown to those Droits of Admiralty; and indeed the arguments used did not go so much to shew that the system complained of was illegal, as that it was unseasonable. His principal object in rising was to protest against the principle of having a mere stipendiary king, with an income fixed by parliament, and never to be exceeded. He thought that where a certain allowance had been fixed in the commencement of this reign, it would be too much to require that the sovereign should be dependent on the parliament for that gradual but regular increase of his expenditure, which necessarily took place from the great depreciation of money, (hear, hear! from the Opposition bench) or the great increase of prices. Every gentleman who kept a house, must, from his own experience, be sensible of this perpetual increase of prices. He believed the hon. and learned gentleman could shew no instance of a sovereign of this country, who was ever restricted in that manner. He approved of the system existing in the reign of Charles 2263262dMr. Courtenay
265 declared, he had not intended to take part in this discussion, but from what he had heard, begged shortly to deliver his opinion on the two points into which the question had been so properly divided. He agreed, that the right to these Droits, from the Conquest to the present day, was vested entirely in the king. But when any revenue was so vested," there were vested with it corelative duties to be performed. Of old, when the kings of England held lands and other: sources of revenue, they were bound to protect the country, to be at the expence of carrying war into, foreign parts, and perform other services for the realm. The same mode existed in some arbitrary governments at this day, but in England they had made one of the greatest improvements ever thought of in politics, by separating the revenue, and granting it for particular purposes. No man was inclined to go farther than he was in the amount he would appropriate to the support of the crown and all the royal family, though he could have wished that the civil list had been voted solely and clearly to the king, and that ambassadors and great officers had been provided for by other grants. But if the old hereditary revenues of the crown were continued, the old hereditary duties ought also to continue. As for meeting the excess of the civil list out of this fund, he must consider any other source better than one so uncertain and precarious. Although he was convinced that the argument of war being entered on to increase this fund was merely theoretic, yet even theory so dangerous
265Mr. Davies Giddy
l270ll wished merely to ask one question. The account now submitted to the House began in 1793, and ended in 1810, and taking the amount at 7,300,000l270llMr. W. Smith
 conceived, that the hon. baronet had misinterpreted the doctrine held by his side of the House. For his own part, he had never considered the Droits of the Admiralty, which they were properly called, but as a trust vested in the crown, He did not accede to the principle of reform maintained by the hon. baronet, because the present practice was liable to evil. The true principle was, first to see the evils as they arose, and then to apply the remedy. He allowed that it was a great sum, but it was applicable by ministers, and subject to the control and review of parliament; and had ministers ever refused to submit the accounts of that application? There was no danger, therefore, to the constitution to be apprehended. The last administration he considered as a high constitutional authority, and during the continuance of that administration, no message had ever been brought down to the House to take the subject into consideration. Had Mr. Fox thought it dangerous, he would, no doubt, have taken some measure to reform it. It had been said, that seizing enemy's ships before proclamation of hostilities was a piracy, and a larcenous warfare, and a war of banditti. Such expressions ought not to go forth from that House, as they were a disgraceful imputation on the character of the country. This, he conceived, had always been the practice, and laying an embargo, he contended, was a benefit rather than an evil, as it prevented the entering into unqualified hostilities, and gave the enemy time for consideration. That mode, he contended, which had hitherto existed, was the best, and therefore ought to be continued.Sir John Nicholl
 observed, that before he offered any remarks on what had fallen from the right hon. baronet, he should wish to hear any other observations that might be made, in order to embrace the whole at one view.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lllllll286l285284283bona fided282, by command of the Prince Regent, acquainted the House, that his Royal Highness, having been informed of the contents of the said Petition, recommends it to the consideration of the House. Then the said Petition was presented and read; letting forth, "That, previous to the American war,
lllllll286l285284283bona fided282The Chancellor of the Exchequer
dsdsl proposed to introduce a clause into the Bill, which should have for its object to prevent the English distillers from defrauding the revenue, by compelling them, under a penalty of 100dsdslSir George Clerke
291 observed, that the proposition of the hon. baronet would have been more regular at another stage, but as the House was acquainted with his arguments, he would take notice of them now. The question to which he alluded had been a subject of long and deliberate consideration, and though there was something very deserving of attention in what had fallen from the hon. baronet, though he concurred with him in thinking that it would be extremely desirable to have the duty simplified, he thought it unwise to embarrass a temporary system without full and deliberate consideration; and with respect to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman (Mr. Sinclair), he could assure him that he had received more applications from Scotland for the adoption of this measure, than from any other part of the united kingdom. He felt indebted to the right hon. baronet (sir J. Newport) for the manner
291The Chancellor of the Exchequer
292 said, that the right hon. gentleman had answered the illustration of his right hon. friend by calling it extravagant; but the House would do well to recollect that king William had declared his intention to do all in his power to destroy one of the manufactures of Ireland: this was recorded as an historical fact, and even if it did not exist, he conceived that it was right to argue upon the most extravagant suppositions, and upon the broadest principle, on a question like the present. There was experience of what had been done, and it was not many years since the table of that House was crowded with Petitions, when it was proposed to extend a "mall part of the African trade to Ireland. The right hon. gentleman might senile, but it was nevertheless true, that violent remonstrances were made in the year 1782, and particularly by the city of Glasgow, against this advantage being conceded to Ireland. It was not a fact that the suspension took place in 1806 to guard against the Scotch distillers—it was to benefit the English revenue—it was because the Scotch distillers exported their spirits to Ireland, and not only injured the Irish distillers, but the English revenue. This
292Mr. Hutchinson
 thought the two countries should go hand in hand, and spoke shortly in favour of the measure.Mr. Herbert
 informed the hon. baronet that his amendment and clause would be more properly discussed at a future stage of the bill.The Speaker
290289 said, that he rose for the purpose of submitting to the House a few observations on the subject of this measure in as far as it affected Scotland; as it appeared to him calculated to be essentially injurious to the agricultural interests of that country. The lamentable deficiency of the crop, which had unfortunately pervaded the greater part of the kingdom, was not the only evil of which the farmer had to complain—a considerable proportion of the barley and oats which had not
290289Mr. Sinclair
 brought up the Report of the DistilleryMr. Lushington
288 said, that he regretted not having at an earlier period called the attention of the House to this subject: he did not mean now to discuss the question at large, of the policy of suspending the distillation from grain, as he supposed that those officers whose duty it was to advise the crown, were better informed than he could possibly be respecting the necessity or expediency of such a measure. He entreated the House to weigh well the nature of a measure which went to prohibit the intercourse between the two islands forming the United Kingdoms; and he referred to the 6th article of the act of Union, by which it was declared that no bounty or prohibition should exist between the two kingdoms. If, however, it was necessary that this article should be altered, it should at least be done with all the mature deliberation of legislative interference; but he thought the principle one replete with danger to the interests of Ireland, because it was capable of being extended beyond the present occasion, and therefore it should be the more cautiously adopted. If, for example, (and he was aware that what he was about to state was an extreme case), it should be judged expedient to suppress for a time the linen manufactory in Great Britain, then, proceeding upon a principle similar to the one now about to be adopted, all importation of linen from Ireland would be prohibited. He lamented that the general interests of Ireland were so neglected in that House; it exemplified the old proverb, that the weakest must go to the wall. It behaved the House, then, to guard against such misconceptions, and to recollect, that of 658 legislators, there were but 100 for Ireland. He knew and respected and valued, a large portion of those 553 members, who represented the other portions of the United Kingdom, but it was natural that they should have prejudices in favour of the interests of that part which they belonged to; and that impression was infinitely stronger out of doors. It was singular that the distilleries should have been a subject of animadversion ever since the Union, at which time it was alleged, that the benefits resulting from the produce of the Irish distilleries finding their way here, constituted one branch of the advantages which were to be derived to Ireland from that measure. It appeared, on examination,
288Sir John Newport
 repeated, that the measure of suspension in 1806 was not adopted in consequence of remonstrances from Ireland, but in consequence of the danger apprehended to the English revenue from the Scotch distilleries.Sir J. Newport
303pro salute animœ302lllsllsl301slsssl300299298297296 said, that it was not because his motion would be confined to the mere case of the Petitioner, that he had requested the Petition they had just heard to be read, but in order to open to the consideration of the House the nature and intent of the abuses to which he now rose to call their attention. When he first read the Petitioner's statement of the difficulties and grievous hardships to which she had been exposed, he did not think that they made a fit case to bring before parliament; because he could not believe it possible, that the laws of the country were inadequate to the remedy of evils so oppressive and unjust. When, however, upon further enquiry, he found that there was actually no remedy whatever, he was induced to examine into the nature, origin, and general history of the Ecclesiastical Jurisdictions, and the result of that enquiry impressed him with a conviction of the necessity of parliamentary interposition to rescue the subject from their unconstitutional and exorbitant power. It was because he thus found that abuses existed in the Ecclesiastical Courts, which had elsewhere no remedy, that he was induced to extend his motion beyond the particular case of the petitioner; and lest the
303pro salute animœ302lllsllsl301slsssl300299298297296Lord Folkestone
304 observed, that the statement of his noble friend pointed out many radical objections to the state of the law, but not to the administration of it as practised in the court, over which a learned judge, whom he had now in his view, presided. He agreed that it would be desirable that the law should not continue as it was, in many of the respects alluded to by his noble friend. But still, such was the law, and an inquiry into the proceedings of inferior ecclesiastical courts would not have the effect of doing away the evil. The evils complained of in a great measure arose from the jealousy of the courts of common law, in regard to the proceedings of the ecclesiastical courts, which compelled them to have recourse to a circuitous mode of giving effect to their decisions. If the ecclesiastical courts had proper authority to enforce their decisions, the expences would be small, and the effects of their sentences would be infinitely less burdensome than they were now felt to be. By the act of the 5th Elizabeth, the writ 'de excommunicato capiendo' was first returnable to the court of King's Bench: this caused an additional expence. The fact was then certified to the ecclesiastical court, and then a writ for the delivery of the party arrested into the hands of the ecclesiastical tribunal was issued. Thus the anxiety which the courts of common law felt for the liberty of the subject, as far as the ecclesiastical courts were concerned, enhanced the matter of costs, and produced an evil very inadequate to the original offence. It appeared to him to be desirable that this law, as it now stood, should be reviewed, and also that no person should have any sort of ecclesiastical authority committed to him, who was not fully conversant in ecclesiastical matters. The appointment of a Committee, however, could not give relief in any one of the points to which his noble friend had alluded.—There was one subject to which his noble friend had referred which he confessed seemed to him to be of very great importance; namely, that persons were appointed to exercise ecclesias-
304The Hon. William Herbert
313312***311310, in what he was about to lay, had not the smallest idea of treating with disrespect those courts which formed the subject matter of discussion; connected as they were with the profession to which he had the honour to belong. But the arguments adduced by the right hon. gentleman had not satisfied his mind of the propriety of refusing all inquiry, nor did he conceive the motion to be of that extensive nature which had been asserted. It was true, the motion was for an inquiry into the state of the inferior Ecclesiastical Courts; and if, in order to satisfy that, it was necessary to examine every court of that description in the kingdom, that each of them was to be investigated, and a report delivered on their respective situation; if that were the case, the duty of the committee would be indeed extensive and laborious. But this was not the fact; nor could it strike any person's mind in that point of view. The business of the committee would be, of course, in the first instance, to investigate the cases immediately before them, to examine the state of the courts out of which they had issued—and not to go through every court in the country. It had been argued, that a very serious case should be established before a court was called, upon to hold up its hand, as a culprit, at the bar of public opinion; but, in his opinion, no imputation had been levelled at any court whatever; and, when cases of extreme hardship, for so the right hon. gentleman himself had designated them, were laid before parliament, was it not the duty of the House to see whether they had arisen from a defective state of the law, or from the misconduct of those who administered it? He did not believe that those cases originated in the improper behaviour of any
313312***311310Sir S. Romilly
peine forte et dure318 said, it might be true that hardships existed, but had there been any mal-administration of justice, had inferior courts acted differently from what, must have been done by superior ones? Had the judges done more than the law absolutely required? An hon. gentleman of great acuteness had alluded to the
peine forte et dure318The Attorney General
319 begged to be informed, if it was the intention of the right hon.
319Lord Folkestone
 said, that with that understanding he should withdraw his motion, but he would make one observation: he understood that the right hon. and learned gent, had many years ago expressed himself hostile to the abuse; but up to the present period no measure had been proposed to remove it. He had extreme pleasure in withdrawing his motion.Lord Folkestone
 wished merely to remove any doubt which might exist with regard to what had fallen from his right hon. and learned friend in the course of the debate. So far from his speech having stated any objection to inquiry, its whole object was to express his opinion, that the inquiry should be directed towards the law itself, and not the charges brought forward by the noble lord, which he thought not likely to be remedied by the appointment of a Committee, and he had heard him often say, that the only reason which deterred him from attempting to remove the process complained of was an apprehension of opposition and jealousy on the part of the common law courts, which certainly had formerly existed in a considerable degree; but now that the general feeling seemed in favour of such a measure, he had no doubt that his right hon. friend would undertake it with great pleasure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the original ground of his motion was the case of the unfortunate woman, whose relief and release was sought by it; he would, therefore, wish to have something arranged on that subject.Lord Folkestone
 entertained a doubt as to the principle and policy of the regulations of the right hon. hon. baronet. It was not advisable to recognise the policy of encouraging bequests of the description alluded to, because any person on his death-bed might give to a charity that portion of his property which his immediate relations were entitled to. The legislature was not called on to administer to the wishes of such persons. These persons might be surrounded by those whose interest it was to induce the testators to will their property to the prejudice of their relations and nearest of kin. With respect to the publishers of newspapers, they undoubtedly charged what they conceived necessary for the insertion of advertisements relating to public charities, and to interfere with them was improper. The whole of the suggestions of the right hon. baronet, if attended to, would be accompanied by such inconvenience, that the measure would produce no benefit, but must be both inexpedient and disadvantageous.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
321 rose to enter his solemn protest against that clause which had for its object the suspension of the intercourse between England and Ireland. He charged that section with being in direct violation of the solemn compact entered into
321Mr. Hutchinson
 was much pleased with the eloquence and animation displayed by the last speaker, and somewhat with his ingenuity, for he had not only glanced at the main objection of his hon. friend, but had skilfully recoiled from it as if impressed with sudden terror. He had advanced nothing to shew that it was not a direct breach of the act of Union. What he said, was, that the Irish people would not be injured by it. He had not attempted by the slightest argument to prove that it was not a direct infringement on the sacred compact. When it was intended to make an encroachment upon any thing by stealth, it was universally found that some act was first done, which if not really good in itself, could be plausibly shewn to be attended with beneficial consequences, and after the public had been dazzled by false light, advantage was taken of their sudden blindness to lead them into a snare. The whole of what had been just said was undoubtedly very persuasive, and would be listened too most willingly by those who were sanguine. It was an attempt like a man in despair to shew that good might arise out of evil, that the act of Union was violated was a positive evil; that advantageous results might attend it, was a doubtful good. If it was the fact that this, clause was not a breach of the Union, why did not the hon. gentleman endeavour to shew it? The reason why he had been prudent enough not to make any such attempt, was sufficiently evident.Lord Folkestone
325324 professed himself somewhat astonished at what had fallen from the noble lord, but frequent experience had taught him not to be surprized at such sentiments as were delivered by the hon. member who first spoke on this question. On the present occasion he had warmly inveighed, as usual, against the House, but his object, at other times more remote, was not sufficiently obvious, from the notice that he had given regarding the dissolution of the Union. It was an attempt to excite in Ireland a spirit of hostility, which, supposing the speech of the hon. member to possess any weight even there, would be more than counter-
325324The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 proceeded to ask, whether it was the pleasure of the House that the motion should be withdrawn? whenThe Speaker
 said he did not more for the papers from an idea that they contained any thing of importance, but merely for the purpose of grounding a Resolution upon them.Lord Cochrane
295l rose and said: Sir, I would have given a shorter notice of the present motion, had I not expected to have been called out of town on business of private importance. However, it is not too late to gratify those who wish well to their country by making them to participate in the feelings of one who has acted disinterestedly for the public good. I allude to his royal highness the duke of Cambridge, Who with truly patriotic magnanimity, has relinquished a lucrative command which, in the opinion of his Royal Highness, had dwindled into an office nearly resembling a sinecure.—This, Sir, is a practical instance of reform, proceeding from the source whence alone it can arise without endangering, at first, the further derangement of our constitution.—Besides the noble precedent thus established by his Royal Highness, which will be followed by those who regard the happiness of their native land, the relief actually afforded is equal to all the; taxes levied on 1,000 of his Majesty's subjects; for if I am rightly informed, the emoluments were 4,200295lLord Cochrane
 said, that he had made some inquiry into this business, and understood the surrogates had minutely investigated the conduct of the cause, and had declared that all the proceedings were regular; and that as to the prisoner being a minor, from the contumacy shewn by not appearing to the citation, it was impossible the court could know any thing of it. If she had appeared: and pleaded her minority, the court could then have determined on it; but as the matter stood, they knew nothing about it.Mr. Grenfell
323 observed, that if during the course of the hon. member's speech, he had shewn, by his countenance, any symptom of dissatisfaction, it was a true picture of his mind, for he had little expected, that a question like that now under discussion would have been treated in the temper and spirit just exhibited. If, indeed, the support of the representatives; of Ireland were desired, it would be fit that a conduct diametrically opposite should be pursued. Surely, the hon. member himself must be aware of the absurdity of arguing on questions of commercial policy now, by reference to periods when both nations were actuated by mutual jealousies; then, indeed, might deficient representation perhaps have been fairly, complained of; but now it must be admitted, by all honest and unprejudiced men, that the united parliament no less consulted the interests and happiness of Ireland than it did those of Great Britain. He was as deeply concerned in the welfare of his native country as any man, and would do all in his power to promote it; and if he were asked, whether all the inhabitants of that country would be satisfied with the clause in question, he did not mean to assert that they would. (Hear, hear!) He trusted he should receive the same cheer, while he asserted that in general, nay, almost universally, those interested either in the manufactures, the agriculture, or the revenues of Ireland considered this bill a most important benefit. (Hear, hear!) What were the objections? Not that the measure was inexpedient in the present exigency (for that, not even the hon. member himself had ventured to maintain) but that it was some supposed violation of the act of union. As the representative of the principal distillers of the sister kingdom, he appealed to the hon. gentleman whether he would wish that the provisions of the whole bill should be extended to Ireland? The honourable gentleman was silent, and it proceeded from experience: he knew that it would be most detrimental, for the first year that the distillation from grain was prohibited, it did apply to Ireland as well as to Great Britain, and how anxious then were the advocates against this very clause now, that the same provision should be inserted; they would have accepted it as the greatest boon that could be offered them. Such a conduct was indeed puerile; it deserved no better term, particularly when the proceedings of former times of comparative
323Mr. W. Fitzgerald
326 rose merely to state, that though he agreed with the present mea-sure as one justified by the necessity of
326Mr. Giddy
 said, he had not accused the Spiritual courts for their non-adoption of the practice of the common law courts, but merely suggested the propriety of such adoption.Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that the views of the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon this subject were certainly more accurate than those of the noble lord and the hon. gentleman who had spoken on the other side of it. At the same time he could not but add, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been asked a civil question, had he returned a civil answer it would at least have redounded more to his candour, if not so much to his eloquence.Mr. W. Smith
meum & tuum317 said, he had heard with great satisfaction, the statements so distinctly made by the two learned gentlemen that night. He confessed, that when he had heard the first part of the speech of the right hon. and learned gentleman (sir W. Scott) he was not prepared for the conclusion which followed it. Certainly, at least, one third part of that speech did tend to corroborate all the noble lord's conclusions, for it confirmed his statement, that there was something in those courts which stood in great need of reformation. If any of those learned gentlemen were willing to bring forward a remedy, he believed the noble lord would be perfectly willing that the reformation should be entrusted to them. But by whom would a bill be brought in If his hon. and learned friend beside him (sir S. Romilly) were to introduce such a bill, so great was his weight in the country, notwithstanding his want of experience in that particular department, that he had no doubt it would be received with that deference with which every thing from him would be received; but if the noble lord were to originate such a bill, he would be told by the opposite side of the House, that it would be better for him to let it alone. If they were to look to the right honourable and learned gentlemen who were so peculiarly qualified to carry through this reformation, he was afraid that they had already so much important business on their hands, that it would prevent them from coming forward in time with it. He remembered a case of peculiar hardship, which came to his knowledge two years ago. Two poor women, for a contempt in an Ecclesiastical Court, had been confined in Nottingham during 11 years. He had been there after, nine years imprisonment, and he found that they possessed a very good moral character, that they were enthusiasts, and in their principles nearly resembling Quakers, but differing from them in some peculiarities, they were not members of that sect. It happened that these women bore a dislike to the mode of solemnizing marriage prescribed by the Church of England. They were dragged before an Ecclessastical Court, at the instance of some cruel, malevolent, and bigotted individuals, for living in a state of fornication; and being cited by their maiden names, and refusing to answer to such names from a scruple of
meum & tuum317Mr. W. Smith
316315brutum fulmendsldsl314in forma pauperis defended the conduct of the ecclesiastical court, in the case which gave rise to the motion of the noble lord. It was an ordinary one, and treated in the ordinary manner; a young girl had done an injury to a married woman, by imputing to her a want of chastity; she denied the charge, and was cited to appear before the proper tribunal; she refused to appear, and accordingly a compulsory process was instituted. This was the whole case, and such a one as might occur in, any ordinary case, when a person was summoned to appear before a magistrate for killing game unlawfully, when the same consequences would ensue, and might with equal justice appear a sufficient ground for inquiring into the conduct of alt the magistrates of the kingdom. The age of the woman whose case was made the subject of complaint was first adverted to, but it was well known that minors were amenable for offences. The noble lord had also complained, that no guardian had been appointed, but the appointment of one could have made no difference in the result. The second ground of complaint was, the poverty of the accused; but that could not be pleaded as a ground for committing offences, and she was entitled to sue 316315brutum fulmendsldsl314in forma pauperisSir John Nicholl
 said, that great as was the pressure complained of here, from the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical courts, it was nothing to what was felt in Ireland. It was a perpetual subject of complaint, that the poor peasant who was cited to appear, after leaving his employment to attend the court, found that it was not sitting, and was obliged to go and return frequently, from the irregularity, with which those courts were conducted, and was at length decreed for not appearing. He would add but one word more: it was in the recollection of the House, that not more than two sessions had elapsed since a noble lord, in that House, had arraigned the Catholics of Ireland for inflicting the sentence of excommunication, and denounced it as infamous and disgraceful to society, in the most extravagant terms; and yet it was stated this night as the avowed and sanctioned practice of the established church.Sir John Newport
320 had intended bringing before the House a motion for extending the provision of the 50 Geo. 3, ch. 85, regulating the taking of securities in offices in England, to all parts of the kingdom; but as he understood the subject was to be brought forward by another
320Sir J. Newport
 did not wish pertinaciously to press a measure which he had thought it his duty to bring forward, as the right hon. gentleman was not disposed to concur with him.Sir J. Newport
 replied, that if it was the sense of the House that such a measure was expedient, he would certainly comply. (Cheers from all sides.)Sir W. Scott
 signified his willingness to bring in the bill.Sir William Scott
309in formâ pauperis308307de salute animœ.306 said, he could hardly believe, that the noble lord who had brought forward the present question, was himself aware of the nature and effect of the motion he had submitted to the House. He trusted, however, that the House would pause before it agreed to go into an inquiry such as that proposed by the noble lord. Let the House consider what might be the consequences to others of their agreeing to such an inquiry; let them consider the number of persons who must be brought up from different parts of the country to be examined before the Committee, at an expence which their petty emoluments would but ill enable them to discharge; and he was satisfied they would require farther proof of the necessity, and also of the utility of such a Committee before they concurred in the motion of the noble lord for the appointment of it. The House, however, must also feel itself called on in justice to consider that this was a principle which attached to every court, high and low, namely, that every court, however, inferior its jurisdiction might be, was entitled to be held in a decent state of respect, till it was proved to have done something to forfeit its character. When this should be proved, it would be time enough to hold out such jurisdiction to public odium; but till then he could not agree to any such measure as that proposed by the noble lord.—He should not follow the noble lord into those legends of antiquity to which he had had recourse. Many of the cases figured by the noble lord, now no longer existed; and the expences of the proceedings in ecclesiastical courts were not such as he supposed. The points which ecclesiastical courts were called on to decide, however, were not so limited as the noble lord supposed. It was their duty to decide on the matrimonial and testamentary law; on tythes, and on many other of the civil rights of mankind. He
309in formâ pauperis308307de salute animœ.306Sir William Scott
 submitted to the House whether the noble lord had made out any ground for his motion. He had no hesitation in stating, that if the Letters alluded to were produced, they would be found to contain nothing but a simple resignation on the part of the duke of Cambridge, and a formal acceptance on the part of the Commander in Chief. Conceiving, as he did, that no ground was made out, he should certainly resist the motion.Lord Palmerston
 conceiving that there would be no objection to the motion, without making any observation moved, "That a Committee be appointed to examine and consider what regulations and checks have been established in order to ontroul the several branches of the Pubic Expenditure in Great Britain and Ireland, and how far the same have been effectual; and what further measures can be adopted for reducing any part of the said expenditure, or diminishing the amount of salaries and emoluments, without detriment to the public service." And a Committee was appointed accordingly.Mr. Bankes
 next moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider what offices in the United Kingdom, and in the foreign dominions of his Majesty, come within the purview of the 2d, 3d, and 4th Resolutions which, upon the 31st day of May 1810, were reported from the Committee on Public Expenditure; and that they do report their opinion thereupon to the House," and a Committee was appointed accordingly.Mr. Bankes
364363362361l360l359358l357l356l355354 began by observing, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had complained of his having abstained from offering to the House any remarks or explanations on the subject before them. He could assure the hon. gentleman and the House, that no indisposition of that nature existed in his mind. He was anxious to give as satisfactory an explanation as possible of the various topics comprised in the bill; and he had withheld that explanation until the present moment, in order to give himself an opportunity of collecting the various objections which different hon. gentlemen entertained towards the measure. Had he risen immediately after the right hon. gentleman who opened the debate, he should have been precluded from hearing the observations of the several hon. gentlemen who followed. At the same time, while he frankly declared
364363362361l360l359358l357l356l355354The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l346l345 said be was of opinion, that the House would not discharge their duty to the public if they agreed to the
l346l345Mr. Johnstone
347 begged leave to explain under what circumstances the payment to sir Sidney Smith had been made. The truth was, that it was a mere discharge, without even interest, of a debt due for money advanced, and he thought if it was justifiable under any circumstances, it was so in the present instance. It ought not to be believed that the grant
347Mr. Matthew Montague
 said, he did not state that the sum granted to sir Sidney Smith was out of the Droits of Admiralty, but out of the fund of extraordinary disbursements. He found that the claim was of twelve years standing, and concluded if that claim were just, that government must be wrong in withholding it.Mr. Johnstone
 assured his hon. friend that he had stated the fact correctly, and that so far from that gallant officer being repaid, part of his pay as captain was withheld, while absent on another service.Mr. Montague
l367l366365 said, it was a great mistake on the part of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to suppose that either his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierńey), or his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread) had, in any unqualified manner, condemned the charges that appeared under the head of extraordinary disbursements, still less had they condemned the individuals to whose names those charges had been annexed; it was unfair in the right hon. gentleman to argue as if they had done so, when the least consideration must have reminded him that they had not. What was the simple statement of the question? A considerable increase to the expences of the Civil List was proposed, and not a single voucher or document was laid before the House to shew the necessity of that increase, save the mere naked assertion that there was an excess in the expenditure over the income. Was this, he asked, a parliamentary ground? From what did this excess proceed? Ought not parliament to know the cause of the excess before they proceeded to discharge
l367l366365Mr. Ponsonby
 apprehended, that the statement of the ministers of his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, that such was his intention, was sufficient. If gentlemen should be of opinion, however, that this was not enough, it might be sufficient, on a future day, to signify his Royal Highness's assent in a more formal manner.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not wish to be captious, but still he did not see how the Committee could proceed, no consent or declaration of his Royal Highness having been referred to them.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he believed it would be better, as a matter of form, that the chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l then signified the consent of his Royal Highness the Prince Regent to the appropriation of the 50,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, his Royal Highness combined both characters in himself, and he unquestionably had his Royal Highness's authority to declare the present consent on his behalf.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l proposed that the other clauses down to clause 14th should be postponed, it being his intention to divide the Bill into two, and to incorporate the clauses omitted into a separate Bill.lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, in point of form, the whole was now complete, and the only entry necessary to be made on the Journals was, that the measure was consented to on the part of his royal highness.Mr. Speaker
 said, the Prince of Wales surely could not be divested of any property standing in his name without his own consent. The House however had, on such occasions, often thought it convenient to go through even to the last stage, before any consent was given. Such consent must undoubtedly be ready to be given, whenever required, and must in all cases be produced before the passing of the Bill; but there was no occasion, nor was it the practice that this should be done by message: if consented to, that consent was taken verbally.The Speaker
 said, that this was exactly-similar to a case in the year 1760, when the King's consent was presented to a Bill then depending, in which his Majesty was interested.The Speaker
 thanked the hon. gentleman opposite for the opportunity which he had afforded him of assuring the House that he was anxious that the fullest and most unreserved examination should take place into the accounts which had been alluded to. He must also express his acknowledgments to the hon. gentleman for the handsome manner in which he had been pleased to speak of his private life, and he hoped, when the accounts were examined, the hon. gentleman would see nothing in his public conduct, which would preclude him from a continuance of his good opinion. Unquestionably, the sums in the accounts to which he had alluded were large. He felt that an explanation was necessary, both for his own sake and for that of the country, and he repeated, that he was really and sincerely anxious to afford all the information on the subject that it was in his power to provide. He flattered himself, that until that elucidation should take place, the candour of the House would rescue him from any unjust or ungenerous imputations on his conduct.Mr. Arbuthnot
 opposed it, principally on the ground that it was incorrect to say that the deficiencies had been all made up, those arising in the year 1811 being not yet supplied.Mr. Giles
 wished to know where that declaration of the intention of his Royal Highness was to be found.Mr. Tierney
 contended, that a consent of this kind ought to be in writing. It ought, he should imagine, to be by message; and that, too, not from the Prince Regent, but from the Prince of Wales, the latter being the character in which the consent was given.Mr. Tierney
 still submitted that the consent ought to be by his Royal Highness in his capacity of Prince of Wales.Mr. Tierney
 was of opinion, the consent should come from the Prince of Wales, and not from the Prince Regent.Mr. Tierney
 explained, that his object was not to oppose the Bill going to a Committee, although, if he consulted his own individual feelings, he might even have gone that length. His object at present was, only to postpone going into the Committee for a time, till they could procure information on certain points which were necessary to be ascertained, in order to enable the House to come to a fair understanding of the measure.Mr. Tierney
344343ll342llll341ll340l339lllll338lllllllll337llllllllllllll336335l334lll333l rose, and expressed himself extremely anxious, that what he should say on this occasion might not be misconceived or misrepresented. The subject was one of much delicacy, and at the same time of so great importance, that while they inquired into it, on one handy with tenderness and respect, they ought, on the other side, to be allowed full and complete opportunity of understanding what they were doing, and this was the more necessary for him to insist upon, as he, was sure there were many gentlemen who, neither from a perusal of the Bill, of the papers on the table, or of all the information they had before them, could be aware of the extent to which the measure went. Rising as he did at this moment, it might be supposed that he would go into the minutiæ, and answer the variety of statements contained in the papers produced; but the contrary was his intention, for he could see no good purpose that could be answered, and no real utility that could be produced by an investigation of detached papers and figures. From all these it was impossible for him to make up his mind on the question, and when he could not see his own way, it was not his design to call on other gentlemen to follow a course, in which he could not be their guide. In saying this, it was far from his intention to insinuate that there' had been any backwardness or unwillingness in the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to produce all the information called for. The papers were on the table, and for aught he knew they were correct and fair; but then they did not afford the information desired; they only gave a comparative statement of the expenditure on the Civil List for a few years, while be wanted to know; whether in any of these years it was possible to have made a retrenchment? And this appeared to him to be the more necessary to be ascertained, as that expenditure, from the year 1804, had proceeded upon estimate, and that estimate had been greatly exceeded. Thee expence of the Lord Steward's department, for instance, instead of 65,000344343ll342llll341ll340l339lllll338lllllllll337llllllllllllll336335l334lll333lMr. Tierney
375 said, that after the full and satisfactory statement of his respected friend, there could be but one feeling in that House, or the country, on the subject of the Prince's conduct as to his honourable engagements; nor could he help observing that there was no one to whom the honourable fulfilment of an honourable engagement could be better entrusted, than to one of such acknowledged accuracy and fidelity. It appeared that the Prince's debts were in a train to be disbursed, when the plan was prevented, partly by the visitation of Providence and partly by the provisions of an act of that House. As the Prince had been placed in an unexpected situation, in which it was the duty of parliament to assist him, it was their duty to interfere between the Prince and his creditors', and to relieve those embarrassments, which its own enactments had brought
375Mr. Tierney
llll objected strongly to what was here proposed; that in addition to a civil list already amounting to upwards of 1,000,000llllMr. Brougham
353llll352lll351lllll350ll349 said, that there could be no question but that the claims of sir Sidney Smith deserved the highest regard; and, that his services were beyond all praise which it was in his power to bestow, was equally clear; but it appeared from what had fallen from several hon. gentlemen, that the House had an imperious duty to discharge with respect to that gallant officer; it owed to the Hero of Acre, (whose name, indeed, wanted no epithet) an opportunity to explain the item to which his name was affixed: it was not now a question whether his services merited the reward, which would be carried,
353llll352lll351lllll350ll349Mr. Whitbread
 asked, did not the right hon. gentleman think that the consent, or whatever else he wished to call it, should be brought forward in a more formal manner? in such a way, at least, as that it might appear on the Journals? Should it not be in the form of a message?Mr. Whitbread
 stated, that if the explanation which had been just given by his hon. and learned friend had been offered in an earlier stage of the debate, he should not have troubled the House with his objection. Although he was of opinion, that the present mode of meeting the exigency was not well selected; still he thought, after the candid statement just made, the House would no longer object to relieving the embarrassments of the Prince.Mr. Brand
lll objected to the sum of 70,000lllMr. Brand
374llllllad verecundiamlll373lllllll372l said, a considerable deal of reference had been made to some peculiarities in the situation of his royal highness the Prince Regent, which some gentlemen called honourable obligations, and which others gave the real term, debts. It was of very little importance, however, what denomination was applied to them. From the year 1795, his royal highness had not been in the course of managing his own affairs, but the course was, when an account was not paid after the lapse of a quarter, that the person claiming it should give ten days notice to the proper officer, and if he failed to give such notice, the demand could not afterwards be recovered; or if the officer neglected to give it in, he himself became liable to pay it. It was impossible that in such an establishment, things could go on with such strictness as this, and it was an additional trait in his royal highness's honourable character, that he would not suffer any persons to be sufferers by omissions such as these. It so happened that in 1803, there were debts which could not be liquidated; and at this time, three times 60,000374llllllad verecundiamlll373lllllll372lMr. Adam
371 said, that there was no doubt of the identity of person in the Prince of Wales and Prince Regent. This was a matter of state, and the proper persons to be conferred with by his Royal Highness on such occasions, were, unquestionably, his ministers, and it was they, of course, who were to signify his Royal Highness's consent to this measure. It might seem absurd in him to say, if his right hon. friend chose to separate the Prince of Wales from the Prince Regent, that he
371Mr. Adam
368ll said he should shortly trouble the House, by stating why he should vote for the Speaker's now leaving the chair. The principle of the Bill was one in which almost every gentleman agreed; but when he looked at the clauses of the Bill, every single clause seemed to raise a distinct principle. If that was so, in a measure of so much importance, which went to the very foundation of the monarchy, which was not at present complete, he was of opinion no time should be lost in going into the committee. He should not now enter into the details of the Bill, as these might be so much better discussed in the Committee, where they would not be under the fetters by which they were bound in the House. There was only one clause to which he should now allude, and if it should receive a minute discussion in the Committee, he pledged himself to meet it, and to give such an explanation on the subject as, he trusted, would prove satisfactory. The clause to which he alluded was that by which it was proposed that 50,000368llMr. Adam
 was of opinion, that till they saw the declaration of his Royal Highness, the House could not proceed a single step.Mr. Fremantle
l was shut in, and counted, against his inclination, with the Majority; but by the same accident, general Phipps was shut out, and counted with the Minority.lMr. W. Smith
ll348llllll confessed, that he felt considerable difficulty in objecting to a Bill which had for its object the maintenance of an establishment for a king so severely afflicted as the monarch of Great Britain, though he felt it his duty to express his decided opinion against the principle of it. From particular circumstances, he had not had it in his power to pay due attention to the voluminous documents laid upon the table, but even from the cursory manner in which they had fallen under his observation, he thought he could point out items in them which would render the addition of the 70,000ll348llllllSir Thomas Turton
380, in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the provisions of the Act of the 51st of his Majesty to Mary Ann Dix, whose case had lately been brought before the House (see p. 295.) and other persons similarly situated, under the writ 'de excommunicato capiendo.' Acts of the same description as the 51st of his Majesty had been at different times passed, most of which contained a clause for the relief of persons committed for contempt, for non-payment of costs, and those who were suffering imprisonment under the writ he had just mentioned. This clause had not, however, been inserted last year, which he believed, had originated in mistake. To rectify that error was the object of his present motion. He here thought it necessary to say one or two words, in consequence of what had fallen from a right hon. and learned friend of his (sir William Scott), in the course of the debate on a former evening. He regretted, that he was obliged to speak in the absence of that right hon. gentleman; particularly as that absence, he understood, was occasioned by indisposition. The right hon. gentleman, in the progress of his speech, had cast some aspersions, if he might use the term, on the character of the gentleman, from whom he (lord F.) was supposed to have derived some of his information on the subject of the Ecclesiastical Courts. He felt it his duty to say, that the terms in which that person was mentioned, were perfectly unfounded, and perfectly unjust. The original case was not introduced from any feeling of hostility towards those courts. It had been first mentioned to him (lord F.) by some most respectable inhabitants of Bristol, from feelings of humanity—that assistance might be extended to an unfortunate woman; and the person who had
380Lord Folkestone
 said he was requested, in the absence of his right hon. friend (sir W. Scott) to set him right with the House on this subject. Considering the motion of the noble lord as likely to be of very great benefit to the country, he should be very sorry that any thing should be said detrimental to the person, through whose information the subject had been brought before parliament. The fact was, his right hon. and learned friend conceived, at the moment, that the information had been given by some discontented proctor, and the papers with which the noble lord had favoured him, but which were not before the House, exhibited, as he thought, much professional ignorance, joined with an intention to blazon forth trifles to an extent which they did not deserve. Under this impression the words had been made use of. He had only to add, that if, in the warmth of a debate, into which his right hon. and learned friend had been dragged, he had said any thing offensive, no person could regret it more than he did.The Hon. Mr. Herbert
381 then moved, That leave be given to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Act of the 39th of the King, for making perpetual an act of 33 Geo. 3, for the further relief of debtors, with respect to the imprisonment of their persons; and to oblige debtors, who shall
381Lord Folkestone
 said he should not delay the House with any observations on his present motion, which he understood was not likely to meet with opposition from any part of the House. The Bill now in existence would expire on the 5th of February. It would ill become him to say that he did not intend this as a permanent measure, and it would also ill become the House after what had already passed. He should, therefore, without further preface, move for leave to bring in a Bill to prohibit the granting of Offices in Reversion, or for joint lives, with benefit of survivorship.—Leave was accordingly given.Mr. Bankes
llll allowed that enquiry ought to take place, as broad a one as possible, but not such as to impede the progress of the bill. In opposition to the statement of the hon. and learned gentleman, he contended that great grants had frequently been made to the civil list, without any enquiry whatever; and he instanced cases in the reigns of Queen Anne and George 1, and 2, in proof of his assertion. The hon. and learned gentleman said that George 2 did not lay out the surplus of his revenue in the purchase of freehold and copyhold estates. What sovereign had ever done so in this country? None. He asserted positively, that no sovereign had ever laid out a shilling of the civil list revenue in that way. It was impossible that he should do so. His present Majesty had waived the various revenues of his predecessor, and had accepted a specific sum of 800,000llllMr. Rose
394393392391390l389 considered it to be a duty he owed to his constituents to oppose all grants of the public money, unless there
394393392391390l389Mr. Bennet
398 complained of the perfectly gratuitous allusion which the right hon. gentleman had made to the acceptance by his noble relation of the office of
398Lord Ossulston
399lll was desirous of saying a few words on the subject of the marshalmen, yeomen, and porters of the Household, in which he thought all must agree. The marshal men, he understood, paid 7 or 800 guineas for their places to the Knight Marshal, for which they received a sort of nominal salary of about 20399lllSir Charles Burrell
379378377 said, that he had been instructed by his constituents to present to the House a Petition, which he now held in his hand, expressive of their sentiments on the subject of Parliamentary Reform. The anxiety of the freeholders of Caithness to take some opportunity in the course of the present session, to recommend this measure to the attention of the House, arose in some degree from the hardship to which they were at present subjected, in choosing a member alternately with the county of Bute (a county with which they were nowise connected, either in point of interests or of local situation) in consequence of which, they would have no representative in the ensuing parliament, to receive their instructions or to attend to their interests. But this was hot the principal, far less the only inducement by which they were actuated in laying this Petition before the Houses They were no less anxious to
379378377Mr. Sinclair
 then moved, "That the Petition do lie on the table."—Ordered.Mr. Sinclair
388387lllll386/l385ll384lprima faciel383lllll382l rose to state the insuperable objections he felt to this new arrangement. After all the discussion the question had undergone, the House must be aware of the real nature and complexion of the measure then before them, and they ought not and would not lose sight of this fact, that they were dealing with a Bill to raise 70,000388387lllll386/l385ll384lprima faciel383lllll382lMr. Brougham
376 said, that understanding it to be the intention to introduce a new Local Militia Bill, and to dismiss those who had completed their four years service under the present regulation, he thought it right that the House should be furnished with
376Mr. H. Addington
l397l396395 said, he agreed with many parts of the speech of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, but thought he had not quite done himself justice; for he had not only put the House in possession of his future motion, but of his future speech. With regard to those points of his speech which went to object to offices being granted to members of that House, he should agree with his hon. friend, (if he would permit him so to call him) if he could do away ancient and deep-rooted prejudices. If his hon. friend could persuade all noblemen and persons of a certain rank in life to forego their wishes for such offices as the Post-master-General's, and others of the like kind, he should be very happy to coincide with him. There was one part of his speech, however, in which he could not agree with his hon. friend, and that was, where he arraigned the appointment of colonel M'Mahon, and argued, that ministers had been actuated in their conduct on that occasion, with a view to curry favour and increase their influence with the Prince. Now every one who knew colonel M'Mahon must be sensible that his conduct in the service of the Prince had been highly honourable, and such as deserved the particular marks of favour with which his royal highness had honoured him. His hon. friend had said, that he believed colonel M'Mahon to be an honourable man. He thought so too. They were all honourable men; but his hon. friend did not see what right colonel M'Mahon had to the public money. As to the right, there were certainly more ways than one of deserving remuneration for long, tried, and faithful services; and in appointing him to the office in question, no doubt the Prince was actuated by such motives as he thought just and right. If his hon. friend thought the place ought to be abolished, let him make a motion on the subject; and if the House should be of the same opinion, he had no doubt colonel M'Mahon would willingly resign it. He (Mr. Sheridan) was not in the House when the character of colonel M'Mahon was some time ago canvassed on a similar mention of the appointment, and when so
l397l396395Mr. Sheridan
 disclaimed the least intention of saying any thing disrespectful to the noble earl. The higher the noble earl's character, the stronger was his argument, which tended to remind his hon. friend in the midst of his general principles, that there were cases in which men of the best character did accept situations such as those his hon. friend exclaimed against. As to gratuitous allusions, it ought to be recollected that he must naturally have felt a little hurt at the gratuitous allusion which had been made by his hon. friend to colonel. M'Mahon.Mr. Sheridan
 never knew of more than one complaint against the conduct of a marshalman; and in that case proper redress was given, on application to the proper quarter. He had heard of no complaints as to the vails. He did not know who appointed the porters; but if the Lord Steward did, he was sure he received no money for it. If the marshalmen wished to be relieved from the present practice, he was equally certain that the Knight Marshal would feel the same satisfaction. When officers misbehaved themselves, their pay was dropped.Mr. Kenrick
 said he understood from a quarter totally unconnected with his noble friend, that there was not a more respectable person in Bristol, than the one alluded to. He was sure, if the right hon. gentleman who was now absent had known him he would never have permitted such words to drop from his lips.Mr. W. Smith
 was anxious to give the proposed Bill every support, and rose merely to vindicate himself from the implied accusation, that he ought before to have brought forward the measure. The truth was, he felt himself incompetent to so arduous a task as it appeared to be, on the very statement of the right hon. baronet; but he denied that there was any design to conceal the extent of the Population of Ireland. He was as far as any man from wishing that any religious distinctions should be made to sever a people, whom he was fully convinced were zealously attached to the existing government; and he concurred not less in the propriety of the census being taken at stated periods. With regard to what had been said on the returns of 1801 and 1811, he could not admit that the difference was owing to the cause assigned by the right hon. baronet, for the accounts themselves bore internal evidence of their accuracy. In a few days the House would be put in possession of the returns, of the separate parishes, where the amount of burials and christenings would be stated, although they did not, he admitted, exactly keep pace with each other.Mr. Rose
402 observed, that it would be recollected that in the last week, on the motion of an hon. baronet (Sir Francis Burdett, see p. 239) a return was ordered of the number of Police Magistrates, in which it was required also that they should state where their qualifications are, and what they "are." By an act of parliament passed for the most wholesome purposes, all magistrates were required, before their appointment, to deliver in a statement of their qualifications, under severe penalties, and the House would observe, that if this order were complied with, it would be demanding of the magistrates that they should furnish evidence against themselves, which, he apprehended, even the hon. baronet himself would not wish to enforce. This objection had been suggested by the Attorney General, without any communication from any person interested, and he begged therefore to move, that that part
402Mr. Secretary, Ryder
 thought that it would be much more advisable to delay the motion until it was ascertained that the hon. baronet had received the communication just referred to, that he might at least have an opportunity of stating his objections. He thought that it could be no very severe hardship upon the magistrates, even if the order retained its original form: it might be the object of the hon. baronet to point out to the House certain magistrates who had not complied with the provisions of the statute.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he had no doubt that his note had been received, for it was left at the house of the hon. baronet, who might afterwards, if he pleased, revive the order by taking the sense of the House.Mr. Secretary Ryder
quitam strongly objected to this last proposal. It would lead to this absurdity, that the House would be employed one day in making an order, next day in rescinding it, and afterwards in reviving it. For himself, he could see no harm in making the magistrates give in an account of their qualifications. What would be the result? merely that the legislature should interfere to take cognizance of their conduct, instead of the quitamSir John Newport
 could by no means agree with the last speaker, that it was the duty of this House to compel magistrates to render accounts which might criminate themselves.Sir T. Turton
403 said, that it did not follow because the hon. baronet had not answered the communication, that he therefore assented to it. What was the meaning of the present motion? An order was made for magistrates to state their qualifications; and the right hon. secretary moved to alter it, because he found that some magistrates will be criminated by it. (No! no! from the ministerial benches.) Why, really, that was the result of his reasoning, when he stated, that it might produce great inconvenience to some magistrates. He himself thought the order very useful. If any magistrates had evaded the act, it was fit they should be animadverted upon; if any should be found to have acted un-
403Mr. Tierney
 thought that the House would exercise its inquisitorial power very improperly, if it forced magistrates to criminate themselves: nor would the order produce the desired effect. The present qualifications of magistrates might be very different from those which they possessed at first; they might have sold or changed their original qualifications; and it would be too inquisitorial for the House to demand an account of changes which it might be inconvenient to state.Mr. Kenrick
 asked, was it to be endured, that the House should be required to give up its inquisitorial power, because the parties examined before it would perhaps be found to have broken the law? Was it not rather the object of their inquisitions to detect such criminals? But he denied, that in this case the magistrates would be called on to criminate themselves. The proper officers appointed in every county would present the desired information to the House. At any rate, the present proposition was not to be endured. It was, indeed, a principle of law, that a man should not be called on to criminate himself, because his confession might be used to his conviction. But the evidence received in that House could not be admitted as evidence to criminate a man out of it. No court of justice would allow it. He insisted, therefore, that the House should not, by admitting the proposition just suggested, destroy at one blow their whole inquisitorial power. Admit it now, and it would be used hereafter as a precedent to check all inquiries into criminal abuses.Mr. Horner
 observed, that a magistrate might possibly be qualified at the taking of his office, and a list of such qualification might easily be furnished by the regular officer appointed for such purposes; but if he had changed his original qualification, the nature of that which he at present held could be obtained only from himself: and such inquiry, according to the present order, might lead him to criminate himself. As to the point of evidence insisted on by the last speaker, he conceived that the House might very possibly be disposed to allow an extract of its proceedings to be taken; and such extract would, undoubtedly, be received as evidence against a person in any court of law in the kingdom.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said he could not comprehend how the House could come at the qualification, unless the order stood as it was originally made. It appeared that a measure of great importance, namely, the qualification of magistrates, had been passed into a law; and now when it came to be inquired into, it was alleged, that if application was made to the clerks, they could not give the necessary information as to the exact situation of these qualifications. It was, therefore, incumbent on the House to ascertain this point according to the enactment of the law; and it appeared to him that that could only be done by suffering the order to stand as originally made.Lord Folkestone
 said, that the order as it stood must be productive of great inconvenience, without a possibility of coming at the truth. Police magistrates might have been duly qualified, and have given in a particular place, where that qualification lay at the time they became magistrates; and yet having parted with that property, there was no way of coming at the fact where their qualification now lay, but by compelling them to ascertain it. This did not apply to police magistrates alone, but to every justice of peace in the kingdom.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it would be easy to modify the matter effectually by an amendment of the present motion, in only adding a few words so as to reach that qualification under which the magistrate began to act. He was sure the House would ever be slow to exercise its inquisitorial power; but so far as this went he thought it might very fairly be done.Mr. Bankes
 objected to the adjournment, as he had given two days notice, and had also sent a private intimation of his intention, and of the purport of his motion to the hon. baronet who had originally brought forward the subject.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said, the right hon. gentleman gave his notice only on Monday evening, when almost all the members had left the House. For his own part, he knew nothing of it till he saw the notice yesterday afternoon, just before he came into the House. He should therefore vote for the adjournment of the debate to Friday.Lord Folkestone
ll407ll406 said, that the subject had been already exhausted, and that he did not rise to enforce what had been already said, but to explain the nature and grounds of his opposition to the Bill. It proceeded all along upon the violation of a great constitutional principle. The first duty of the Commons House of parliament was to stand between the people and the imposition of undue and oppressive burdens. In the present times, it was unfortunately but too often the duty of that House to impose heavy burdens upon the people, but it was their paramount duty, before they did so, to make themselves satisfied of that necessity, by previous and industrious investigation. If this principle was at all times practically true, never was there a period at which it ought to be more vigilantly acted up to, than at the present crisis, when the highest and most opulent orders of the community sorely felt that pressure, beneath which the lowest orders had been bowed to the very dust. How far, then, was this great constitutional principle observed or departed from, in the introduction and progress of this bill? No man would deny that this bill imposed additional and weighty burdens on the people; but had previous inquiry proved the necessity of these fresh impositions? and if they had not, was the House doing its duty towards that people that had entrusted them with the disposal of their property, when they voted away any portion of that property, without being first convinced of the necessity that called for it? He had listened with attention to the course of the debates upon this bill, and had heard much of what was due to the King, and much of what was due to the Regent, but nothing of what was due to the people. He had no wish to refuse every supply absolutely necessary; but he could not hear the proposition made to that House, as if the only fit subject of inquiry was, how much the executive demanded, and not how much an oppressed people could reasonably spare. It was putting the question as if the claims of the monarch were indefinite—as if the monarch was every thing and
ll407ll406Mr. Hutchinson
 observed, that the subjects touched upon by the honourable member, had already been so fully discussed, that he did not think it necessary to enter into any particular reply. One idea, however, he had advanced which was perfectly new, and that was respecting our embassies to Eastern Courts. He doubted whether it would be wise, to strip a minister, sent from a country like this on an Eastern embassy, of all that splendour and pomp (not over-splendour, but necessary magnificence) which were always observed by other courts, and especially by those of Russia and France. The expences of such missions were known to be greater than what were incurred on other occasions; but even as it was, we were vastly inferior in those expences to the courts he had already alluded to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as an opportunity would soon be afforded him to speak particularly to this subject, he should now say but a very few words. He should pass over every thing relating to himself; but he would inform the hon. gentleman, that of such importance did France deem her embassies to the Porte, that a fleet had been for some time lying at Toulon for the purpose of taking an ambassador in a suitable manner to Constantinople.Mr. Arbuthnot
401400 in pursuance of previous notice, rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to ascertain the amount of the Population of Ireland. He expressed his surprize that a measure should have been so long deferred which would enable parliament to ascertain the number of persons for whom it was to legislate. Twice since the Union had the population of Great Britain been calculated, but in this respect, as well as in others, the natives of Ireland had been totally neglected. The only reason he
401400Sir John Newport,
 thought that the difficulty of the times, alluded to by an hon. gentleman, should be considered rather as a motive for receiving than rejecting his motion. Whatever might be the fate of this motion, he was glad that it had produced such discussion. He concurred with those who had expressed themselves friendly to the abolition or correction of that privilege of members of parliament so very injurious to the rights of others. The motion was then negatived.Mr. Lockhart
485484ll483 expressed his regret, that he had not received the note of the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Ryder) respecting his Order on the subject of Police Magistrates. (See p. 401.) He had been absent from home on business of some importance, otherwise he should have answered that note, and appeared in his place to show the importance of the order to which he alluded. The police was an establishment of great expence to the nation, and he feared that most improper appointments had taken place in that department. It was well known, that from the establishment of the police act, certain qualifications were required for admission into the police magistracy. These qualifications had a most important object in view, namely, the security of the public; but now, when members would quibble upon the law which regarded qualifications for that House, it was unlikely that upon a question of inferior magistracy, he would be allowed to collect such information as might perhaps tend to criminate those in whose hands were placed
485484ll483Sir F. Burdett
486l assured the hon. baronet, that he had not the slighest suspicion of his not being at the House on Tuesday or Wednesday, or he should not have brought forward his motion on either of those days; but observing the hon. baronet so constantly in his place on all other occasions, he could hardly have supposed he would then have been absent; but he confessed, the impression of the hon. baronet's motion upon his mind was such, that at all events he should have felt the necessity of bringing on his, and had the hon. baronet comprehended his objection to the motion as it originally stood, he was satisfied he would also see the expediency of rescinding that part of it. The motion of the hon. baronet, as he understood it, required of the police magistrates to state not only what were their qualifications when they began to act, but also to state what these qualifications were, and where they were to be found. To such a motion he must object, because there was an act of parliament which required that no magistrate should act without his qualification being registered: so far as they knew whet the qualification was when the magistrate was appointed, he had no objection, as that would be found in the office of the clerk of the peace; but what those qualifications were, and where they were at the present time, could only be obtained from the magistrate himself, and by the 18th of Geo. 2, he would be liable to a penalty of 100486lMr. Secretary Ryder
488qui tam observed, that there never was a motion brought forward in that House with less grounds to maintain it. The hon. baronet assumed that, of which there was not the slightest evidence. He conceived there were two answers to the proposition of the hon. baronet, the first was, that there was no reason whatever to believe the law had been broken; and the second was, that if it had, the last thing the House would do would be to call on that individual who had broken it, to give evidence tending to criminate himself. This was the strongest objection to any motion at all upon the subject. There were no grounds laid for the motion; no particular charges stated no statement founded on facts; but merely a general surmise of the hon. baronet, that improper appointments had been made. There were no reasons for this enquiry, unless the hon. baronet could lay such grounds before the House as would satisfy them that the inquiry should be gone into. The House had never expressed an opinion that the law had been broken; if it had, the legislature had provided the remedy, with which the House had nothing to do. If the law was broken, the penalty was incurred, 488qui tamThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know what grounds the House had against these persons, that they should call on them for their qualifications? The legislature had already provided a remedy; they were subject to a heavy penalty. He assured the hon. gentleman, that from any thing within his own knowledge, or the information he had received from his hon. friends, there was not the least grounds of suspicions whatever against the police magistrates, and he could not see any reason why that should be enforced against the police magistrates, which was not enforced against all the other magistrates of the country. He objected to the motion, because it called upon them to bring proof against themselves of having acted illegally, and whatever a man stated against himself was evidence against him, and the conceived the House might direct a prosecution, wherein his own admission might be evidence against him.The Attorney General
 wished to introduce a clause for preventing such officers as held places in the Household from having seats in parliament.Mr. Bennet
 opposed the introduction of such a clause into the Bill. He could not but think it very hard that such officers should be prevented from serving their country in parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l479 brought forward his motion respecting the propriety of bankrupts holding seats in that House. He had for some time been directing his attention to this subject, which, in his mind, was one of considerable importance. It had been a matter of doubt to him, whether it was not improper and inconsistent with the dignity of the House, that a person after bankruptcy should retain his situation as a member of parliament, and the privileges belonging to it. It was clear that, as the law now stood, no disqualification arose from becoming a bankrupt. James I published a proclamation to the sheriffs, calling upon them not to return as members of parliament any person under the circumstances of a bankrupt. This circumstance he alluded to only to prove, that before the time of James 1, bankruptcy was not considered' a disqualification. It was clear, from the issuing of such a proclamation, he did not mean to insinuate that any criminality, was attached to bankruptcy, because it frequently arose from unforeseen circumstances, against which no prudence could provide; but the progress of fraud was at present alarming, and some measure should
l479Mr. Lockhart
480 said, that the House could not but feel indebted to the hon. gentleman for the manner in which he had brought forward his motion, for he had stated all the objections that could be urged against it. It was clear from his own statement that no law existed making bankruptcy a disqualification. The intention of the act requiring certain qualifications for a member of that House, did not require that such qualifications should be permanent. Though a man might lose his property at one time, it was not to be concluded that he could not again recover it. A person might become a bankrupt during the present, session of parliament, and before the next become possessed of much more than would be necessary to qualify him for a seat in that House. It would be a severe measure, to exclude such from the possibility of ever sitting there again. The qualification required
480The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his surprise, that under the present circumstances of the country, such a motion as this should be brought before the House. Every person knew, that, from the impediment to commerce for several years past, many persons had fallen from opulence into great difficulties, such as could not be prevented by any conduct on their part. But men, now reduced to bankruptcy by such difficulties, might in course of time become possessed of considerable property; and surely it would be a monstrous measure to shut them out from parliament, because they had been once unfortunate. The credit of the House was not, in his opinion, so much concerned in this affair as the hon. gentleman suspected. He had no objection that an inquiry should be made into the state of the law, but he did not see any object that could be gained by such a committee as the hon. gentleman wished for.Mr. Baring
481 was no advocate for the system of disqualifications; but, as the law now stood, no great object could be gained by such a measure as the hon. gentleman proposed. The legal ingenuity of the hon. mover furnished him with means to show that, at least, members ought to have some qualification. An hon. gentleman thought it hard, that, in times of difficulty like the present, a motion of this
481Sir F. Burdett
 rose to explain. He did not object to the disqualification as it now existed, but to the making of any change in the law at the present time.Mr. Baring
487 said he had nothing to advance against the conduct of the police magistrates; but thought it necessary that some qualification should be shown to the House, in order to maintain the public estimation of the character of those who had so much power in their own hands. As he understood the objection of the right hon. gentleman, it was not to the production of the qualification delivered in upon their appointment, but to their stating what it was, and where it now was; and the right hon. gentleman said, it would be unjust to call on men to subject themselves to pecuniary penalties; but was not the House to be put in a way of obtaining that information? The House should know whether or not the law was properly executed. Let the right hon. gentleman only point out some mode by which they may obtain the information; if not by this, by some other. Whether they had done this or that act, he did not ask of them to betray themselves into a liability to pay the penalty. If a man sold goods without a license, he had a right to be asked whether he had a license; if this was not the case, what remedy would a court of justice have? In what manner could the court proceed against him? The same mode he would adopt in the present
487Mr. Tierney
489 thought a great part of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech should have been made before the original motion, for if he could not prevail on the House in the first instance, they could not now concur with him in thinking the present motion was wrong. He denied that any imputation had been thrown on the police magistrates by the hon. baronet; no such imputation was intended. Some of them were personally known to him, and highly respectable. He knew no individual more so, than the worthy magistrate, Mr. Graham. But the police system was altogether an object of jealousy. And he well recollected the exertions of an hon. friend, now no more, (Mr. Windham) against that system, which he considered an infringement on the
489Mr. Whitbread
 thought the motion inadequate to the object in view, but would support it as it may do some good. He wished, however, that a more general measure had been proposed.Mr. Brand
482 said, that as the law now stood, the qualifications for a member of parliament were different in England and Ireland. The principle upon which the law was founded in Ireland was a wise one; it supposed, that to secure integrity, independence was necessary. According to the law, as it
482Sir John Newport
 considered that there was a great distinction between the police magistrates and the magistrates of counties, the one acted voluntarily without any pay, the other was handsomely paid by the public; and as servants of the public, and paid by the public, their conduct was equally liable to be enquired into by that House as any collector of the revenue, or any other public officer.Sir J. Newport
 rose and spoke as follows:Lord Morpeth
 merely rose for the purpose of seconding the motion, agreeing, as he did, with all that his noble friend had advanced in support of it.The Marquis of Tavistock
, in explanation, admitted that the right hon. and learned gentleman had, with respect to the first subject, sufficiently guarded himself in words from the imputation of being favourable to the re-enactment of the restrictions on the Catholics; but his argument certainly tended the other way. He was happy, however, that the right hon. and learned gentleman had an opportunity afforded him of distinctly disclaiming any such disposition. With respect to the other point, he had certainly misconceived the right hon. and learned gentleman through the whole of his speech; for he had decidedly understood him to say, that in his opinion the time would never arrive for granting to the Catholics a participation in the rights of their fellow subjects.Mr. Canning
549548 said, he considered it necessary to offer an apology to the House for presuming to address them, after the brilliant and eloquent speech of the right hon. gentlemen who had just sat down. Indeed, he should not have ventured to address them that evening, if he had not been particularly called upon to do so, from the pointed manner in which that right hon. gentleman had thought proper to allude to him. And he thought on that account he was not altogether making an unreasonable request to the House, when he solicited a few moments attention from them. He was neither surprized at the speech of the right hon. gentleman, nor at his conclusion. It was not the first time he had heard that right hon. gentleman make a most brilliant display of talents, and conclude that display with a declaration of his intention of giving such a
549548Mr. Hutchinson
551550 thought there was little of conciliation either in the motion of the noble lord, or the speech of the hon. gentleman
551550Mr. Peel
525524523onusonus522521520519518primâ facie517â priori516515 rose and said:525524523onusonus522521520519518primâ facie517â priori516515Mr. Canning
, of Kerry, agreed in every thing which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Canning), and felt as enthusiastic as himself in the cause of the Roman Catholics. He could not pretend to add any thing to the speech of the right hon. gentleman, and merely meant to state, that the right of petitioning had not been infringed, and that the Irish government had done every thing in their power to avoid coming to extremities with the Irish Catholics. For this reason he wished the House to go into the Committee.Mr. Herbert
564ex officio563bona fide562561560559 wished to know when it was supposed the time would arrive that might be proper for granting the claims of the Catholics? His right hon. and learned friend (Sir. J. Nicholl) had said that when the Irish people were educated, when they were conducted from ignorance to knowledge, and from turbulence to order, that would be the period for taking the subject into consideration. For his part, as he did not pretend to dive into futurity, he could not be supposed to know exactly when that time might come; but really he had no very great hope that he should ever live to see the period when, according to the ideas of his right hon. and learned friend, it might be advisable to take the claims of the Catholics of Ireland into consideration. The right hon. gentleman who followed his right hon. and learned friend in the debate, and whose brilliant and animated speech no one could admire more than himself, had urged the Catholic claims with giant strength, but after putting to flight all the arguments of the opponents of those claims, and dispersing them like chaff before the wind, the right hon. gentleman did at last conclude—"Oh, conclusion most lame and impotent!"—that because his hon. friend (Mr. Hutchinson) had
564ex officio563bona fide562561560559Sir Arthur Pigott
500499498*****497in limine496495; in rising to propose to the House to go into a Committee on the actual State of Ireland, I am sensible that some apology is due from me, for attempting to bring before their consideration a subject of such magnitude and importance. It is, I believe; within the knowledge of many members of the House, that a notice was given of a similar motion in the name of a noble relation of mine, now unfortunately prevented from attending his parliamentary duty:—however anxious he might feel to discharge that duty (and no one, I am confident, is more sensible of the importance of the subject,) yet the House must be aware that occasions may occur, in which the strongest sense of parliamentary duty may be allowed to yield to the severe and melancholy pressure of domestic calamity. The task therefore that he has been obliged to relinquish, I have ventured to undertake.500499498*****497in limine496495Mr. Speaker
Cole493 gave him the Thanks of the House accordingly, as followeth:Cole493The Speaker
581580579578577**576575574573572571570569***568p*p**567***566565; if I had not recollected what passed last year, when the measures of the Irish government were discussed in this House, I should have been surprised that, upon a question, which certainly is brought forward with a view to censure
581580579578577**576575574573572571570569***568p*p**567***566565Mr. Speaker
558557556555554553552 said that in giving his most hearty consent to every principle so eloquently illustrated, and to every argument so ably enforced, in the speech of
558557556555554553552Lord George Grenville
601 said, the right hon. gentleman had repeatedly appealed to him, although he had not uttered one word during the course of the debate. But as
601Mr. Sheridan
 spoke as follows:Mr. Wellesley Pole
"D. DELANY.""I speak here, permit me to aver, right hon. Sir, only what I intimately feel on the occasion. Under this impression, it must necessarily afford roe unspeakable regret, hot to be able to submit to your consideration a fit person for the office in question, from the extreme want of priests that actually prevails at this juncture, throughout the district with which I am charged; a circumstance that leaves (I humbly beg pardon for this detail,) not a few parochial chapels, to which are nevertheless attached, a numerous and wide-extended population, absolutely without divine service, even on Sundays.—I have the honour to be, &c. (Signed.)600l"Right hon. Sir; I had the honour this day or your very gracious communication respecting the offer made to Mr. O'Neil, of the chaplainship to the gaol of Maryborough, and his having declined to accept the appointment on the score alleged by him of the reputed smallness of the salary; I should expect that a conscientious clergyman would be chiefly swayed in matters appertaining to the pastoral charge, as in the present instance, by motives of a superior nature to those of pecuniary considerations, and even in the latter point of view, do, for my part, esteem 30600lst August"Tullowst August"Tullowl599l598ll597llllllll then read to the House the following instances from these returns:"D. DELANY.""I speak here, permit me to aver, right hon. Sir, only what I intimately feel on the occasion. Under this impression, it must necessarily afford roe unspeakable regret, hot to be able to submit to your consideration a fit person for the office in question, from the extreme want of priests that actually prevails at this juncture, throughout the district with which I am charged; a circumstance that leaves (I humbly beg pardon for this detail,) not a few parochial chapels, to which are nevertheless attached, a numerous and wide-extended population, absolutely without divine service, even on Sundays.—I have the honour to be, &c. (Signed.)600l"Right hon. Sir; I had the honour this day or your very gracious communication respecting the offer made to Mr. O'Neil, of the chaplainship to the gaol of Maryborough, and his having declined to accept the appointment on the score alleged by him of the reputed smallness of the salary; I should expect that a conscientious clergyman would be chiefly swayed in matters appertaining to the pastoral charge, as in the present instance, by motives of a superior nature to those of pecuniary considerations, and even in the latter point of view, do, for my part, esteem 30600lst August"Tullowst August"Tullowl599l598ll597llllllllMr. Pole
, in explanation, disavowed any wish to re-enact the restrictions from which the Catholics had already been relieved. So far was he from entertaining any disposition of that nature, that, were such a proposition made, it would meet with his decided opposition. Nor had he, as represented by the right hon. gentleman, intimated any conviction that the exclusion of the Catholics should be perpetual; and he really thought that, in his original speech, he had sufficiently guarded himself from such a misconception.Sir J. Nicholl
514513512511510509508507506505504503502501, after a few introductory observations, and remarking that the motion, although, in words; it formed a very general proposition, yet appeared to have been limited by the noble lord who introduced it to the consideration of what is usually called the Catholic Question:
514513512511510509508507506505504503502501Sir John Nicholl
604 hoped that this latter subject, which had originated with himself,
604Sir S. Romilly
613 said, he should have no objection to make concessions to the Roman Catholics, provided such security was given as would effectually prevent any 'danger from accruing to the constitution. Thus far he was content to go. In his opinion, if the Irish government had pursued a different line of conduct from-that which they had adopted, they would have been grossly culpable.' The plain and simple statement made last night by the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, had effected a very great impression on his mind. The proceedings of the government had been mild and conciliating, such as be expected from the honourable character of the noble duke, the present for lieutenant of Ireland, with whom he had the happiness of being personally acquainted. But the conduct of the Roman Catholics bad been such, as influenced hint to oppose the
613Sir John Sebright
619618double617616615condescendedcondescendedcondescended614 said, that the principal objections of the hon. gentleman who spoke last but one were taken from the speech delivered, on the preceding evening, by the right hon. secretary for Ireland (Mr. Pole.) The present motion was supported on two grounds—the discontented state of Ireland, and the cause of that discontent. Many honourable members conceived that the refusal of the Catholic Claims was the source of the misfortune; others believed it to arise from the severity of the course pursued by the Irish government; and not a few attributed it to both those grounds. But how it was possible for any person, who admitted that every part of Ireland was in a state of irritation, to resist giving so important a subject the most assiduous consideration of the House, he could not conceive. For his own part, he concurred, on both the grounds, in the propriety of the motion. He was surprised at many expressions which had fallen. from the right hon. secretary, as they evinced a total ignorance of the principles of the constitution established by the Union of the two countries. The main recommendation of that great measure was, that henceforward there should be one state, one parliament, and one cabinet; instead of which, the right hon. gentleman was constantly imagining that Ireland was a separate kingdom, of which the duke of Richmond was king, and himself Prime Minister. He talked of the 'Irish Cabinet,' and of himself as 'minis-
619618double617616615condescendedcondescendedcondescended614Mr. C. W. Wynn
 totally disclaimed the version which the hon. gentleman had been pleased to give of his speech.Mr. Canning
 considered that it would have amounted to a criminal violation of the trust reposed in the government if they had neglected to take measures for preventing the meetings, and to enforce the provisions of the Convention act. The right hon. Secretary briefly recapitulated the statement made by the right' hon. Secretary for Ireland with respect to the measures pursued on that occasion. Did the hon. gentlemen opposite mean to contend that government ought to have waited until the object of the meeting was complete, before they decided on putting the statute in force? The construction which had been put on the act was the legal one. The claims of the Catholics were not recognized by the country at large: there was a general and prevalent disposition against them, which had increased in consequence of their late proceedings, and he was not prepared to admit that mischief would not arise from these frequent discussions.Mr. Secretary Ryder
656655 said that upon a subject of this nature, involving in it matter of such importance, and more especially questions of law, he trusted he might be allowed to trouble the House with a few words. With respect to the Convention act, he must say, that if it was not the intention of the legislature in passing that act to provide against such meeting" as the Catholics were lately holding in
656655The Attorney General
661660659658657 began by declaring that he did not know that he was ever in his life so much affected by vanity, as at that moment, finding as he did, from the speech of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, that a speech of his in that House was the cause of the late proceedings of the government in Ireland. The right hon. Secretary had said, that he, in a motion made by him last-session, strongly recommended a proclamation. That assertion he must deny; it was true, he had asked if a proclamation had on that occasion been issued, but he had not recommended one. The right hon. Secretary had said, that he did not wish to be made the subject of witticisms. God forbid that the right hon. Secretary should be the subject of witticisms! But if he had suffered in this way, it certainly was from the gravest of his own friends. He thought he had reason to complain that it should have been attributed to him to have said that a letter issued as the deliberate act of the Irish government, was a slovenly letter. The right hon. gentleman himself had called it a grave and solemn proceeding, and he agreed with him that it was. If the Irish government had acted wrong, or in a slovenly manner, it could not be attributed to the short period they had allowed for consideration and deliberation. The right hon. Secretary, however, had talked as if this debate were calculated for no other purpose than to give him an opportunity of exculpating himself. The right hon. Secretary reminded him of a work which he had seen with this title, "Memoirs of P. B. clerk of this parish, shewing the importance of a man
661660659658657Mr. Ponsonby
662 said, that he gave the noble lord who brought forward the present motion, credit both for his motives in so doing, and for the ability which he had displayed in its support. He was sure he was not paying an ill compliment to that noble lord to say, that he deplored, however, in common with other members, the calamity which had taken it out of those hands which were fully competent to do it justice. But at the same time he could not withhold his strong disapprobation, both of the mode adopted on the present occasion by the other side of the House, and of the object which that mode was intended to accomplish. He did not in the first place, think it a wise or proper thing to bring the conduct of the courts of law in Ireland under the review of the House of Commons, because it might lead to a decision in that House, which preserved no appellant jurisdiction, prejudicial to the judgment of the question by the appropriate tribunal. The noble lord had not said, nor did he believe that he intended to say, that he had any charge to bring against the court of King's bench in Ireland; but the effect of his motion, if carried, must be to stigmatize that court, because the motion was so framed as to take into its purview the double ground of the claims of the Catholics and the conduct of the Irish administra-
662The Chancellor of the Exchequer
664663 resumed, and assured the House that he was not the only person who had been deceived. The right hon. gentleman then entered into a vindication of the measures of the Irish government, and solemnly professed it to be his opinion, that looking at the constitution of the Catholic Convention and its recent proceedings, if no such law as the Convention act had been in existence, it would have been the indispensible duty of his Majesty's ministers to have proposed to the legislature the immediate adoption of some similar provision. But, whatever difference of opinion might prevail on this subject, it would at least have been the most open and manly way of proceeding to have tried the question of the Irish government separately, and not to have mingled it with the question of Catholic concession, for the obvious purpose of collecting every stray vote which conviction, on one point, joined to uncertainty on another, might be the means of furnishing. He was at the same time fully persuaded that in lending all the weight of their sanction to the meetings of a Convention sitting permanently, equalling almost in number the united parliament, and representing every order of Catholic society, the gentlemen opposite, whether they expected to remain where they were, or to succeed to office, were acting a most impolitic and dangerous part. Such, however was the violence of party feeling, such their desire of condemning government, that their better judgment had been misled, and had become blinded to the
664663The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in voting for the motion, declared he had no intention to criminate ministers, but to consider the claims of the Catholics, which were essentially connected with the safety of the empire.Mr. Elliott,
641640639638637636 said, that as he had already had various opportunities of ex-
641640639638637636Lord Castlereagh
 made a brief reply; in the course of which he observed, that it had been alleged, that the motion he had submitted to the House had been brought forward to serve some political purpose or party view. He knew not what was meant by this insinuation, but, if an ardent wish to promote conciliation, and to unite the hearts of all descriptions of persons in a general affection to the state, was a political view, was a party purpose, be was proud to admit the charge.Lord Morpeth
Satis eloquentiœ, sapientiœparum. thought the question might be divided into two parts; the one political, the other religious. With respect to the political part, it had been stated, that in case of the passing of the measure, one half of the members might be Roman Catholics; but though it was possible the proportion might be still greater, he apprehended that it was the greatest injustice to give any immunities to them without an intention at some future period to give all. On the religious part of the subject he thought the Roman Catholic doctrines were inadmissible; but he was happy to say, that though he had come down to the House strongly prepossessed against the conduct of the right hon. Secretary (Mr. Pole), his opinion was entirely altered in that respect, and he agreed that he had only done his duty. He had listened with pleasure to the eloquent display of a right hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Canning) on a former night; but he must say of his speech as had been said of the speech of a Roman, on a former occasion, that he had displayed—'Satis eloquentiœ, sapientiœparum.Mr. Charles Adams
669 said, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had called upon his noble friend who had brought forward the present question, to vote against his own proposition, because it had been supported on grounds different from those on which he had originally moved it. Mr. T. stated, that he felt it due to himself, as well as to his noble friend, to declare distinctly the view he took of the subject. On a motion for a committee to take into consideration the State of Ireland, it was not extraordinary that different gentlemen should recommend such a proceeding on different grounds. For my own part, said the right hon. gentleman, I swear by my vote to ex press no censure on what has recently passed in the courts of law in Ireland, either with respect to the judges or the juries. As to the ministers here, or in Ireland, it is new to me to be told, that a motion ought to be resisted because it has a tendency to criminate them. Such an argument, if admitted, would put a stop to all inquiries. Whether the motion now proposed would lead to a censure on the government for their conduct, can only be ascertained by a full examination into all the circumstances which have taken place. At present it is enough to say, that the state of Ireland, upon the shewing of ministers themselves, is such as to demand the immediate and anxious attention of this House. We are bound, as I think, to take it into consideration; but if we go into a committee, my own earnest advice to my noble friend would be, to postpone all other objects to that most important one, the repeal of those harsh and impolitic laws which now oppress the Catlrolics. That is the great and most urgent point for deliberation, and to that, in ray judgment, all other matters should give way.—
669Mr. Tierney
667666665 did not rise to address the House until four in the morning. He declared, that in voting for the motion of the noble lord he did not wish to be thought to have voted any censure on the judges of Ireland. For of those judges he had a very high opinion, and for one of them in particular he had a very warm affection; but while he did not wish to vote any censure on their conduct, he would vindicate the right of inquiry. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the point of law was in favour of the ministers of the crown.—But. allowing that the point of law was against them, the right hon. gentleman had contended, that if they were advised to act, as they did, by the legal advisers of the crown, they would still be morally right. He wished the right hon. gentleman to recollect, however, that if in this way they were legally wrong and morally right, he had been making the very best apology for the Roman Catholics. They were men, and liable to err as well as ministers; they had acted under the advice of eminent lawyers, as well as ministers; and if they had transgressed the law they were not to be considered guilty, but only in error. With respect to the Convention bill, he remembered very well the period when it had passed. At that time he not only voted against it, but spoke against it; for in his opinion it was liable to one great objection, namely, that of declaring that all representative delegations, for the purpose of procuring alterations in Church and State, were illegal. He then remembered that Ireland owed
667666665Mr. Grattan
668 observed, that the right hon.
668Mr. Croker
654"Fears of the brave, and follies of the wise."653652à priori651650649648647646645644643642 rose at the same time with another hon. member, but the House expressing a general wish to hear Mr. W he began by declaring his regret, unconnected as he was with Ireland, except by being a member of the united parliament, to prevent other hon. gentlemen from delivering their opinion on the subject; but, protracted as the debate had been, the speech which had just been made by the noble lord rendered him extremely anxious to assign his reasons for the vote he should give. The noble lord had complained of the indistinct and indefinite nature of the motion before the House; he had termed the discussion an unintelligible one, and yet, to do the noble lord ample justice, he had contributed his full share to that unintelligibility, (A laugh.) He, (Mr. W.) was now, as he always had been, a warm friend to the consideration of the Catholic claims. Agreeing with the noble lord in some of his general propositions (as well as he could understand them) he entirely differed from him in thinking that the attainment of those claims had been retarded by the discussions to which the various motions on the subject had given rise. On the contrary, he maintained that discussion alone had raised the Catholics from that state of abject slavery in which they were once plunged—that to discussion alone were the Catholics indebted for all that "light and life" which they already possessed—and that to discussion alone would they owe the acquisition of those rights and privileges which were yet withheld from them. Instead, therefore, of advising them to remain in the state of torpor recommended by the noble lord, his strenuous advice to them would be to reiterate their claims until they obtained the accomplishment of their just wishes. The noble lord had balanced the difficulties and dangers which attended the question on both sides. He had enlarged on the necessity of securities for the constitutional establishments, and
654"Fears of the brave, and follies of the wise."653652à priori651650649648647646645644643642Mr. Whitbread
612611610 opposed the vote on a ground not yet much insisted upon, and observed, that the supporters of the motion and its proposer differed much in their reasons for agreeing together that it was a fit one. For the noble lord who had brought it forward had declared, that he abstained from involving in it the consideration of the conduct of the. Irish government while that subject was under a legal process, and while so much irritation prevailed on the public mind. But this example, though, from the manner in which the House marked their sense of its propriety, it was evidently greatly approved of, was not followed by those who deemed it right to support the noble lord on those very grounds which he had disclaimed. An hon. and learned gentleman opposite, (Sir A. Pigott) indeed, had, on the con-
612611610Mr. W. Fitzgerald
dernier resort622621620dernier resort said, he had listened to the speech of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, with great attention, but he must beg leave to differ from him en every point. The hon. gentleman had observed, that Ireland was at present in a state of great irritation, and, he, therefore, called on the House to go into the Committee. He, however, must doubt the propriety and efficacy of this mode, which, in his opinion, would tend to increase, rather than allay that irritation. The hon. gentleman had combated, in the course of his speech, a number of points of mere etiquette, in which he conceived his right hon. friend (Mr. Pole) had been mistaken. They were unworthy of notice; and had nothing to do with the principle on which the debate proceeded. When the hon. gentleman criticised the mention of two cabinets, although that expression might be wrong, yet it did not invalidate a single sentence his right hon. friend had advanced. When the hon. gentleman spoke of the Convention act, he expressed an opinion that its interpretation was not finally decided; and defended the right of the House to examine the conduct of public men.—But, were these the grounds on which they would agree to the motion? What had these observations to do with the question under discussion? The hon. gentleman expressed a fervent hope, that the decision under the Convention act would be brought before the dernier resort622621620dernier resortMr. Manners Sutton
 founded his vote on similar grounds.Sir G. Warrender
635634633632631630629628627626625624623 rose and said: The hon. member who spoke last, has assumed to himself a superiority in argument over my hon. friend to which he is not entitled; for his pretensions rest upon a very superficial conception of the motion before the House. It is not, as he has argued, a motion made for the sole purpose of inquiring into the legality of the conduct of government, but a motion that has for its object an inquiry into the policy, as well as the legality, of that conduct; and also into the condition of the Catholics of Ireland. The policy and the legality of the conduct are two distinct considerations; or, otherwise,
635634633632631630629628627626625624623Mr. Parnell
609608without distinction of religious persuasions.l.607606 rose, and apologised to the House for thus early pressing upon its attention, when, from indisposition, he was so little able to treat the subject in a manner suitable to his own conception of its magnitude. He would not have come forward, had it not been that his conduct had been called in question, when he had not an opportunity of making that defence, of which he trusted that conduct would always be susceptible. The step which he had taken (attending the Catholic meeting at Waterford), and which he understood to have been animadverted upon, was not taken rashly. He had acted on that occasion with the coolest deliberation, and had done what he did from the firmest conviction, that he was not contravening the law, but was, on the contrary, consulting the best interests of his country. The proclamation was only the interpretation of the law, and not the law itself; and if any individual was sure that the construction of the law was wrong, he could not be called a violator of the law, when he disregarded the interpretation. The powers assumed by the privy council in the times of the Stuarts were well known to have been one of the chief causes of the expulsion of that unfortunate family. He did certainly attend a meeting of the Roman Catholics of Waterford, assembled for the purpose of preparing a petition to that House; and he had never ceased to hold out to that body, that in that House the redress of their grievances was to be sought for. He was not one of those who wished to impress upon their minds, that the door of parliament was shut against them. Certain factious persons had done so for the purpose of agitating the public mind in Ireland; and lately the government appeared to have joined with the agitators to produce the same effect. But fie called upon them to consider the consequences of turning away the minds of three or four millions of people from the constitution, by inculcating the persuasion, that they could never hope for an equal share of its benefits. Was that their way of tranquillizing Ireland? For his own part, he had always considered it the soundest policy to keep
609608without distinction of religious persuasions.l.607606Sir John Newport
671
671Mr. Houston
 wished to ask the right hon. the Secretary of State, whether it was the intention of the government to lay any information before the House with respect to the disturbances which had for three months scandalized the country, and still continued to do so, or whether any inquiry was to be set on foot with respect to them?Mr. Whit-bread
 agreed that the proceedings alluded to by the hon. gent, were such as scandalized the country; he had reason to believe, however, that they had, within these few days, much subsided. Whether this was or was not the case, the House would soon possess the opportunity of inquiring into the subject, when a Bill, which was now in preparation, should be introduced.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said, that the riots at Nottingham had not only not subsided, but were increasing, and loudly called for enquiry.Mr. Lambe
 stated, that he had received letters that morning which expressed that a greater degree of tranquillity prevailed in the country than had been for some months past.Mr. J. Smith
 said, it was not his intention to have troubled the House on the present occasion, had it not been for the allusion made by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, to the state of the town which he had the honour to represent. He was confident that the merchants of Liverpool expected a great alteration would be made in the arrangement of the carrying trade to and from India. It had been suggested to him that a Committee should be appointed on that subject; but that, he thought, was premature, and so he had told those that mentioned it to him. It was, however, very clear that all the out ports were violently agitated on this point; and there could be little doubt but all of them would make applications, either to government or to parliament; and he hoped they would not be precluded by agreements made between this minister or that, and the East India Company. The matter was of the utmost importance to the out ports, and he hoped they would have justice done them.General Guscoyne
677l. said, that the Committee on India Affairs had really brought forward a great deal of information, though it possibly might have brought forward still more. Besides the account between the East India Company and government, they had produced two very elaborate Reports, and he would take upon him to say, that any gentleman who would look into those reports, could not fail to get much information with respect to the propriety of a renewal of the company's charter. With respect to the Ninth Report, which had been alluded to by an hon. gentleman, however pointed it might have been to the subject in 1780, it was by no means so now; circumstances had varied most materially since that period; and if the House should now proceed on it, they would be very much misled by it. The Company were no party to the propositions then brought forward, but they had more than paid the 500,000677l.Mr. Grant
l.l.l.679l.l.l.l.l.l. thought the House would find no difficulty in throwing open, to a considerable extent, the trade with India, without infringing on the East India Company's charter, or without endangering the security of our East Indian possessions. On this subject he conceived the hon. gentleman who had spoken last but one, had given a very satisfactory answer to the hon. gentleman who had commenced the debate. He rose at present merely to give expression to the surprise which he felt at the statement made by that hon. gentleman respecting the produce of the property tax at the 5th of January last; Compared with the produce of the property tax for the year ending the 5th of January preceding. He apprehended, that instead of the deficiency of 1,100,000l.l.l.679l.l.l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
said, the single question now before them was, whether a committee should be appointed or not; but the grand point to be considered, was, whether the information brought before that committee could be brought before the House itself in due time to be of any avail. That committee, as he understood, had now sat four sessions; but as yet not much information had been derived from it. The appointment of it had now been delayed near a month; and whatever might be the opinion of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the trade of the country, clear it was to him, that it had greatly decreased. He hoped, therefore, his hon. friend would persist in his motion for a committee of the whole House.Sir S. Romilly
683l. was of opinion, that, if the report of the committee how proposed were not very different from their former statements laid before parliament, little or no useful information relating to the question of the renewal of the Charter would be obtained from it. It was true, as had been said, that these reports had produced some beneficial effect, but only to the East India Company, since upon them two loans to that Company of 1,500,000683l.Lord Folkestone
 hoped, if there should be any intention of opening the trade to India, that a more liberal arrangement would be made in favour of Ireland upon this head, than the one which now existed.Mr. Hutchinson
 informed him, that it would be quite irregular now to move this amendment, after he had already spoken, and the discussion which had taken place.The Speaker
 was putting the question, whenThe Speaker
 said, the hon. gentleman who spoke last, had predicted that the merchants who embarked in the private trade to India would be ruined; he begged only to lay in his claim that they might be indulged, and he would trust to their enterprise to carry them through. His hon. friend who began the debate, had set out by alluding to the speech of the Prince Regent at the opening of the session, and he could not avoid observing, that the House had now sat a month, and made no progress whatever towards tailing that part of the speech into consideration. He was sorry he was compelled to agree with his hon. friend in all he had stated with regard to Liverpool. He was sorry to say, that that lately opulent town had been shorn of its brightest beams; for now, whoever went along the quays, not long since crowded with every species of merchandise, would behold the melancholy and mortifying signal of a broom at the mast-head of almost every other ship, to notify, alas! that it was to be sold. Last year, not foreseeing the sudden and severe reverse which had taken place, the merchants of that once flourishing town came forward with a bill for providing new docks; but now it was one universal scene of poverty and distress. The people of Liverpool had ever shewn themselves to be an active and enterprising set of men, and he thought they were at least entitled to the same advantages from their own government as had been granted by it to the Americans.General Tarleton
680 thought the public had a right to be informed of the real situation of Indian affairs. It was well known that a negotiation was at present going on between the government and the East India Company, and that the matter was as nearly settled between them as it could be without a statute. All this was carried on in silence; and if it was not as good as concluded, it was in a train to be concluded, and parliament was only to be brought forward as a matter of form to put the seal to the contract. Now, there were so many facts necessary to be known before it was possible to entertain any correct opinion on the state of East Indian affairs, that he thought the production of documents alone would not be satisfactory, and that witnesses ought also to be examined. In the present state of the question, it was impossible
680Mr. Brougham
682681 felt it necessary to put several questions to the hon. member over the way, who had moved for the
682681Mr. Whitbread
primâ facie672 observed, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary,
primâ facie672Mr. Whitbread
 shortly delivered his opinion, that this, like every other subject which turned principally upon accounts, would be better examined in a select committee than in a committee of the whole House.Mr. Lushington
676l.l.l.675l.l.674l.l.l.673 objected to the motion altogether. For the purpose of shewing the importance of the subject, he begged that that part of the Prince Regent's speech at the opening of the session, which recommended attention to the affairs of the British possessions in India, should be read. [It being accordingly read by the clerk, the hon. gentleman proceeded.] The charter of the Company was near its expiration: it was therefore highly important, that every sort of information should be obtained before the discussion of its renewal. It was on this ground he objected to the select committee, as utterly incompetent and inadequate to furnish that information. It was now the fifth session since that Com-
676l.l.l.675l.l.674l.l.l.673Mr. Creevey
 rose, and said that he had intended to move, as an amendment to the motion, "that it should be referred to a Committee of the whole House." He had concluded his speech, however, without making a motion, and he wished to know whether he was now in time.Mr. Creevey
l.684 said in answer to the first question that had been put to him, that he bad every reason to believe that a report would be soon ready to be presented, and was already in considerable forwardness. The noble lord appeared to think it extraordinary that such a report could have been prepared before the committee was appointed. This was, however, the practice in ail other committees. Some persons who possessed the best information on the subject always drew up a report first, which they submitted to the judgment and consideration of the committee to adopt or alter at their discretion. On this subject the necessary information had been previously collected, and the report would soon be presented to the committee for their consideration. He certainly was not able, in answer to the third question of: the hon. gentleman, to say that the report would embrace every thing which would be necessary to be considered on the question of the renewal of the charter. It appeared to him indeed that many of those points would not come properly from
l.684Mr. Wallace
, after shortly adverting to the importance of the subject, especially as the great question of the East India Company's Charter would soon come before the House, observed, that the Committee had already made two large reports, which contained a full account of the foreign transactions of the company, and that it only remained now to take into consideration the home department of the business, that the House might have before them a complete history of the finances of the East India Company. He apologised for the delay which had occurred, on the ground of the length of time requisite to prepare, arrange, and render intelligible tedious and complicated accounts. He wished to make only two slight alterations, which were, the substitution of Mr. Howarth and Mr. Lushington, in the room of lord Melville and Sir John Anstruther. He then moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed to enquire into the present state of the affairs of the East India Company, and to report the same, as it shall appear to them, to the House, with their observations thereupon."Mr. Wallace
703 thought the hon. gentleman had misconceived his hon. and learned friend, whose argument went to the disgrace of having such a statute on
703Mr. Lockhart
 observed that the hon. gentleman seemed to have a veneration for the statute of Elisabeth. But this was not the only statute of that queen which most be considered a disgrace, for there was one he could refer the hon. gentleman to which made it a felonious act in any person found in the company of the persons denominated Egyptians. There was another, which made it felony to commune with the Devil. The inflammatory language of these acts was borrowed from her predecessors, Mary, and Henry the eighth. With respect to the statutes, he had looked into them as narrowly as his abilities would allow, and he would assert that the 16th of Charles continued this act, for it expressly said, "it shall be continued till parliament makes some other law on the subject." The hon. and learned gentleman thought men's lives should not be subject to such lawsSir S. Romilly
 rose to state to sir Samuel Romilly, that the Committee who were now sitting to inquire into the propriety and utility of erecting Penitentiary Houses, would not have leisure to extend their inquiries, according to the wish of the hon. and learned gentleman, into the effects produced by transportation to Botany Bay; but he should move that it be an instruction to the committee to examine into the state of the Hulks, and to report thereon as to any improvements which might be adopted. If, however, the hon. and learned member should wish to move for another Committee to inquire into the effects produced by transportation to Botany Bay, he should not oppose the motion. But it was highly expedient that the committee should proceed first in their inquiries respecting the Hulks, as the size and perhaps the number of Penitentiary Houses, would depend upon the circumstances of that mode of punishment being abolished or not.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 intimated his intention of moving, on Wednesday, for a Committee to inquire into the effects produced by transportation to Botany Bay.Sir S. Romilly
 moved the second reading of the Bill to prohibit the granting of Offices in Reversion, or for joint lives, with benefit of survivorship.Mr. Bankes
692 said, he understood that the hon. gentleman who brought this subject forward, had on a former evening stated himself not to be aware that any opposition might be expected. Now, if there had been any understanding to that effect, he begged leave to say that he was no party to it. He should expect more substantial reasons than any he had yet heard from the hon. gentleman, before he could give his vote for making that permanent which had hitherto only been adopted as a temporary measure. He understood the measure which had been adopted, to have originated in a wish of the Finance Committee, that those sinecure places might not be granted in reversion, which subsequently they might think it expedient to abolish; and therefore a suspension of the power of the crown in this respect had been requested; now, he would ask, could it be too much to desire that this branch of the prerogative of the crown might not be destroyed at least till the embryo plans of the hon. gentlemen, who thought proper to recommend such a measure, were known? It might so happen, that when their plans were brought forward, the House might be of opinion they were such as ought not to be adopted, and then they would stand in the predicament of having lopped off a part of the prerogative of the crown, without supplying many other way the means of rewarding long and meritorious services. The prerogative of the crown he conceived to be a part of the rights of the sovereign, and he thought the House ought not to touch this branch of it until the
692Mr. W. Dundas
695694 wished the House to remark, that the hon. mover
695694The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 explained, that inasmuch as the Bill recommended the abolition of certain offices, it was to be considered in some degree as a measure of economy.Mr. Bankes
 added, that pending any measures respecting the abolition or reform of existing offices, he had never offered any opposition, nor would he, while he had the honour to hold the office he now filled, give any interruption to such a proceeding.The chanclleor of the Exchequer
 pointed out certain offices, the abolition of which was proposed, and which made the present a measure of public economy. The situation of the country rendered it necessary that not a farthing should be uselessly expended, and therefore the Bill should have his cordial support.Lord A. Hamilton
696 was much surprized at the conclusion to which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had come, since from every thing he had said he had expected a very different determination. He denied that the present Bill, which had several times received the sanction of the House, was of slight importance; nor was it more correct to state, that it had bees previously carried by popular clamour
696Sir S. Romilly
697 remarked, that the only two members who had spoken against the Bill were two very principal reversionists. The measure now proposed bad always been a favourite with the House and with the people, and when their voices were united for any constitutional object like the present, it was undoubtedly the most sound policy to attain the object so much desired. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer however, thought otherwise, and maintained that the measure was of little or no importance, although popular clamour had swelled it into magnitude, and his only reason for now resisting it was, his opinion, as opposed to that of the whole country, that it was too insignificant to deserve attention. Had the right hon. gentleman, however, or his colleagues, consulted their interests or their duty, they would never have thrown cold water upon it. It was assumed, too, that it was not a measure of economy. But it was rather singular that this doctrine should be supported by a person, who held the reversion of one of the greatest
697Mr. Whitbread
698 thought, that too much had been conceded by admitting that this was not a measure of economy. He did not give his support to this measure, from any idea that it would at all contribute to diminish the influence of the crown. To him it was quite clear, that the plan of granting places in reversion brought a burden upon the public at least three times greater than could arise from such places, if not given in this manner. The circumstance of bestowing these places sometimes upon persons even in their infancy, could
698Mr. Giddy
 thought there were two sorts of economy to which the House should attend, economy of public expenditure, and economy of public opinion. The public, he had no doubt, would pay their taxes with much more pleasure, and feel their burdens far lighter, if they were convinced that the public money was honestly and economically disposed of. Parliament was the best judge of what should be in the hands of the crown, and he would protest against any other doctrine.Mr. Bastard
 thought that this subject did not draw all its importance from the circumstance of its being a favourite measure with the public. If it were rejected now, it would give a proof of inconsistency on the part of that House, which would not be very creditable to its wisdom. I he right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that it was an object of no great importance, and he certainly was not inclined to dissent, without much hesitation, from any opinion which that right hon. gentleman might express; but he did not think that the House ought now to reject the measure merely upon the ground that that right hon. gentleman had represented it as a matter of little importance.Sir John Sebright
 thought the power which was given to the crown, of granting offices in reversion, was disadvantageous to the crown itself, because it afforded an opportunity to mortgage the right of the successor. He did not mean to contend that it would be desirous to abolish the power of conferring rewards for meritorious services in reversion, but that those rewards would be best vested in parliament. He agreed, however, with the right hon. gentleman, that the subject was not of much moment, under the present state of things.Mr. Elliot
699 rose and said; Sir, although I have often expressed my sentiments upon this question, I cannot refrain from troubling the House with a very few words. I cannot at all agree that this is a matter of little importance, on the contrary, it appears to me to be of very considerable magnitude, even in an economical point of view; because nothing can be
699Mr. Ponsonby
700 explained, that he opposed the Bill on the ground that the objects to be attained by it
700The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 likewise explained, that he did not himself believe the provisions to be of much magnitude, but the precedent was of much importance.Mr. Elliot
702 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Act of the 39th of Elizabeth, which constituted it a capital offence, punishable with death, in soldiers and sailors found begging in the streets. The hon. and learned gentleman conceived there could be no objection to remove from the statute book an act of this nature, which went to inflict a capital punishment on persons of this description, who were wandering or begging about the streets, without a pass from their commanding officers. The law had not, to be sure, been acted upon since the 16th of Charles, which last statute continued it, nor would the House deem it expedient to continue acts which, in the present times, never could be acted upon. Mr. Justice Blackstone, in his work referring to this statute, had said, it was "a disgrace to the legislature." Being on the subject of the penal laws, he would take-this opportunity of stating, that it was not his intention at this moment to bring forward any of the bills which he had formerly done. In so refraining, he had not in the least altered his opinion as to the necessity of amending the criminal code, nor was his perseverance or patience
702Sir S. Romilly
 rose to second the motion, and went into some detailed observations upon the act which it was intended to repeal. He maintained that Mr. Justice Blackstone had not asserted that the law in question was a disgrace to the legislature, but that it was a disgrace to the statute book, and the distinction, he contended, was an important one. Since the time of Blackstone, however, that act had been virtually repealed by the 32d of the King. The hon. member argued upon the necessity of the act at the time it was provided, and read the preamble of it, which stated that divers lewd, immoral and dangerous persons, contemning all religion, did wander up and down the country, weaponed and in troops, in the guise of soldiers and sailors, disgracing those honourable characters; that divers heinous murders and other offences were committed by them, and that unless some provision was enacted by the legislature to prevent those enormous evils, the consequeuces to the community must be dreadful. This, he continued, was the state of the country at that time, and in a similar state almost every country in Europe was at the same period; armed banditti infested the public roads; and the act in question was to be considered rather as a legislative declaration of war against persons of desperate practices, than an act of parliament. The hon. member then entered into the precise objects of the act, and the miserable necessities of the times which called for its enactment. He thought it did not disgrace the statute book, but was one of necessary but mild coercion; yet he willingly supported the motion of his hon. and learned friend for its repeal.Mr. Frankland
711710709708 rose and said: Sir; in consequence of the notice which I gave a few days ago, I rise to call the attention of the House to a subject well deserving its distinguished notice, the conduct of lord Wellington and the troops tinder his orders, at the late capture of the important fortress of Ciudad Rodrigo, and of suggesting to it the propriety of marking this achievement with its warmest thanks and most sincere approbation. Although some doubt may be entertained, whether the consummate skill, industry, adroitness, and judgment of the commander in chief, or the energy, gallantry, and zeal of the forces have reflected the greatest honour on British arras; yet I am persuaded there will be no difference of opinion in according that these two circumstances united, cast a splendour round the laurels of the allied troops, which will fully entitle them on this occasion to that proud distinction which they have frequently received before from parliament, and will raise for them claims to new distinctions, if I may so express myself, to add yet further lustre to the brilliancy of their glory. I believe that the precedents are rare (perhaps this is the only one), in which an enterprise of this kind has been made the subject of particular pot ice by the House, but. I am confident the House will feel that there are on this occasion circumstances of such a nature as to render the propriety of it obvious, and even to justify a Vote of Thanks, had it been a solitary instance in which they had been conferred.711710709708The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could not held remarking how reasonable all the expences connected with the foreign missions had been found, when they had thus been subjected to minute examination. There were, however, many secret sources of expenditure, which it would be inconvenient to the public service, and ruinous to individuals, to explain. As the object of the proposed committee was toThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the honour of any of the gentlemen who had been employed on missions to foreign courts, was a sufficient pledge for the accuracy of their statements, and he was sensible of the inconvenience and difficulty attached to the transactions with foreign courts, under the circumstances of publicity which all proceedings were subjected to here. But the great view of the question was, what practical examination those accounts should be submitted to—what was the manner in which they should be audited? It was necessary to have some rule by which they should be guided. He concluded by moving, as an amendment, that there be added to the original motion, "And that the said committee do further inquire into all the casual and hereditary sources of revenue which have accrued to his Majesty, and report their opinion thereupon to the House."Mr. Bankes
 thought it would be better for the committee, in the first place, to endeavour, from the accounts, checks, &c. which should be laid before them, to supply themselves with the requisite information; and if they found it necessary, on any particular subject, to send for persons, papers, and records, they could' come to the House for liberty so to do. The practice of the House was uniformly to restrict committees in the first instance, and he presumed they would not be disposed to depart from this usage on the present occasion. As to the amendment proposed by his hon. friend (Mr. Bankes,) he should prefer a mot ion for an Address to the crown for the accounts alluded to, and when granted, it would be in the power of the House to refer them to the committee, or not, as they might think proper.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
740 said, he was at a loss to conceive how the committee were to
740Mr. C. W. Wynn
 agreed to withdraw his motion; which was, with leave of the House, withdrawn accordingly.Mr. Bankes
 was against the appointment of a committee, unless it was to be an effectual one, The country was wearied out, and must naturally now begin to think that all committees were appointed for the purposes of deception and of delay.Mr. Bastard
 propose ed, that the name of Mr. N. Vansittart should be substituted for that of lord A. Hamilton.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected, because the committee was to consist only of 21 members, and the addition would make it 22.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l, in complimenting the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Arbuthnot) on his general conduct as art ambassador, and the credit with which he had acquitted himself in different missions to Sweden, Portugal and Turkey, could not help saying that his right hon. friend had given him credit for a forbearance and liberality which he did not merit. He was not so circumstanced as his right hon. friend, who had gone through the different gradations of the foreign line, and had made it his profession, and was therefore fully entitled to the remuneration for his services which a pension offered.—The noble lord then explained the items charged to his mission at St. Peterburgh. The first was 5,000lLord Granville Leveson Gower
 seconded the motion, and begged to add a few expressions of admiration, flowing, not merely from his lips, but dictated by his heart. It was impossible, he said, to add any thing, by brilliancy of description, to the lustre of the late transaction; but as the oldest general in that House, he wished to point out in it some characteristic marks of British gallantry. Whether the skill of the commander in chief, or the bravery of his troops were referred to, he defied any nation to produce an example of similar splendour, of troops so steady within arms, or so silent in attacks made under cover of the night. If the leader of any of our columns were disabled, the efforts of his troops were not relaxed. When what was technically called "the forlorn hope" was to be formed for the purpose of the assault, instead of 350 volunteers, which were required, no less than 700 men instantly offered themselves from only two regiments. He would not waste the time of the House by further dilation, since it was impossible for the genius, the eloquence, the research, or the memory, of all its members to produce an achievement, whose glory at all equalled the splendour of the capture of Ciudad Rodrigo.General Tarleton
 made a single observation, in which he suggested the propriety of conferring some additional mark of gratitude on lord Wellington.Mr. C. Adams
712 was anxious that the name of major Napier should not be for-
712Mr. Arbuthnot
7337327317308547,897
8547,8978½52,615Add exchequer fees.
8½52,615Add exchequer fees.11½1945,281Total received
11½1945,281Total received00798For secretary and servants
00798For secretary and servants0117,765Compensation for losses
0117,765Compensation for losses245,732Extra expences
245,732Extra expences9121,863Dragomans
9121,863Dragomans5½101,899Presents and Janissaries
5½101,899Presents and Janissaries8¾93,173Messengers
8¾93,173MessengersEXTRAORDINARIES.
EXTRAORDINARIES.4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace
4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace7¼217,265Palace
7¼217,265Palaced.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£
8547,897
8547,8978½52,615Add exchequer fees.
8½52,615Add exchequer fees.11½1945,281Total received
11½1945,281Total received00798For secretary and servants
00798For secretary and servants0117,765Compensation for losses
0117,765Compensation for losses245,732Extra expences
245,732Extra expences9121,863Dragomans
9121,863Dragomans5½101,899Presents and Janissaries
5½101,899Presents and Janissaries8¾93,173Messengers
8¾93,173MessengersEXTRAORDINARIES.
EXTRAORDINARIES.4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace
4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace7¼217,265Palace
7¼217,265Palaced.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£l729llldsldslsl728727lllldsl726llldsl725dsldsl724ll723l722ll721720719 said, the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had so particularly called upon him, that he hoped the House would excuse him if he rose thus early in the debate. He should not follow the hon. gentleman through the whole of his statement, but he begged to mention one obvious reason why it appeared to him impossible, that, without injury to the public interests, and without injustice to private individuals, the House should grant the Committee moved for by the hon. gentleman, at least as far as it related to foreign ministers. He was sure the House was not aware of the detriment which frequently ensued from the publicity given to the dispatches of ministers sent by this country to foreign courts. In order to shew the injurious consequences which sometimes follow from the publication in this country of the dispatches of foreign ministers, he begged leave to state a circumstance that occurred to him in one of the missions in which he had had the honour of being employed It would be obvious to the House, that he could not, with propriety, mention the place, or the names of the persons to whom he was alluding; but the fact be meant to state was, that it once happened to him, when employed upon a mission of considerable importance to the interests of this country, to be upon terms of the most confidential intimacy with the minister of an allied power, resident at the same court. That minister received dispatches, with the contents of which it was of essential consequence that he (Mr. Arbuthnot) should be acquainted. It was of the more consequence, because it frequently occurred that the ministers of foreign courts received more regular dispatches than our ministers did; and, at the very time to which he was alluding, it did so happen that he had not received any dispatches from this country. The only means he had of ascertaining the relations subsisting between his own court and that of the minister to whom he was referring, were from a perusal of the dispatches received by that minister. He accordingly applied for, and obtained, permission to peruse those dispatches, which were of a
7337327317308547,897
8547,8978½52,615Add exchequer fees.
8½52,615Add exchequer fees.11½1945,281Total received
11½1945,281Total received00798For secretary and servants
00798For secretary and servants0117,765Compensation for losses
0117,765Compensation for losses245,732Extra expences
245,732Extra expences9121,863Dragomans
9121,863Dragomans5½101,899Presents and Janissaries
5½101,899Presents and Janissaries8¾93,173Messengers
8¾93,173MessengersEXTRAORDINARIES.
EXTRAORDINARIES.4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace
4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace7¼217,265Palace
7¼217,265Palaced.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£
8547,897
8547,8978½52,615Add exchequer fees.
8½52,615Add exchequer fees.11½1945,281Total received
11½1945,281Total received00798For secretary and servants
00798For secretary and servants0117,765Compensation for losses
0117,765Compensation for losses245,732Extra expences
245,732Extra expences9121,863Dragomans
9121,863Dragomans5½101,899Presents and Janissaries
5½101,899Presents and Janissaries8¾93,173Messengers
8¾93,173MessengersEXTRAORDINARIES.
EXTRAORDINARIES.4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace
4176,827Miscellaneous, connected with the palace7¼217,265Palace
7¼217,265Palaced.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£l729llldsldslsl728727lllldsl726llldsl725dsldsl724ll723l722ll721720719Mr. Arbuthnot
, in explanation, admitted the adequacy of the naval force sent out at that time under the command of Sir John Duckworth.Mr. Arbuthnot
 said, that not a more honourable man than Mr. Stratton existed, and he might even add, that he had perhaps more merit in the principles he had laid down than Sir W. Drummond himself.Mr. Arbuthnot
 thought, that without the power to send for persons, papers, and records, the committee would be of no avail and that if the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer meant to refuse that power, he had much better act with sincerity at once, and refuse the committee altogether.Mr. Giles
 said, he would rather have Mr. Vansittart's name added to the committee.Mr. Horner
 said, he had frequently been on committees originally consisting only of 21, to which members had been added, making them 22 and 23.Mr. Horner
 then moved," That the Committee have power to send for persons, papers, and records;" upon which a second division took place,—Ayes 27; Noes 80. Majority against Mr. Eden's motion 53. After the divisions, Mr. Eden and Mr. Tierney declared their determination not to attend the Committee; seeing that it was destitute of the necessary powers.Mr. Eden
718lllll717llllll716lllllllll715lllllllll714 rose to make his promised motion on this subject. It was, he said, a principle not to be departed from, that all applications to parliament for an increase of the Civil List, should be appeals to the justice rather than to the generosity of the House. The civil list was intended to meet the expences incident to the support of the dignity, power, and splendour of the royal establishment. It was independent of parliament on the one band, and calculated on the other to preserve the people from additional burthens. When once limited by parliament, it was the duty of those who superintended and controled its expenditure, to square their measures with the allowance given, and it was not for parliament to keep pace with their extravagance. He was aware that circumstances might arise to render augmentation necessary, but in that case it was the duty of the House to examine whether that arose from a proper expenditure or from mere idle extravagance. They ought to see that a real necessity existed, and not grant additions, which were made necessary by waste. It was under these
718lllll717llllll716lllllllll715lllllllll714Mr. Eden
 said, that when he made his motion, he had no idea that the committee was to be deprived of its right of inquiry. The object of its appointment would be to examine the expences of the civil list, and having weighed what was proper and what improper, to propose measures to prevent a recurrence of the latter. In the investigation it might be found necessary to examine witnesses; and if that power were not granted to the committee, its appointment would be nugatory. He would move that necessary addition to his motion.Mr. Eden
 said, he would not be bound in the committee by what the right hon. gentleman had stated. He did not wish to push the examination of the civil list expenditure to an unnecessary extreme; but if it should be found that a veil of secrecy had been thrown over certain items, he should like to know whether thoseMr. Tierney
vivâ voce said, if the House determined that the committee should not have the power of sending for papers and examining persons, they were only losing their time in appointing it at all. If they were to be allowed no other information than that which the accounts already made up could furnish, they had better move to have them laid before the House at once, and thus save trouble. What he wanted was, to see whether exceedings had not taken place in particular classes, and to trace those exceedings to their origin. By looking at the papers he could perceive the excess, but, to account for it, vivâ voceMr. Tierney
 hoped that the House would not now do any thing which might seem to exhaust the motion of which an hon. friend of his had given notice for to-morrow, and also another motion of which he himself had given notice for Friday. He alluded to the name of Mr. Stratton, and expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Arbuthnot) had not done justice to him in his statement.Mr. Brougham
 was proceeding to notice some misrepresentation of what he had staled on the question of voting thanks to lord Minto, when he was interrupted by the Speaker, who informed him that such a subject was wholly irrelevant to the matter before the House.Sir H. Montgomery
con.nan713connemconnem paid a high compliment to the talents of lord Wellington, in whom the army had perfect confidence, whether he was acting on the defensive, or leading his troops to the attack. Another reason which induced him to concur in this vote was, the incitement it would be to young men yet undetermined to commence a career of glory in the army, when they held in prospect the honourable reward which was now bestowed.con.nan713connemconnemGeneral Loft
l738ll said, that, as he was proposed to be one of the committee, he should be glad to know explicitly the line of examination which it was intended to pursue. Committees had been appointed in the years 1802, 3, and 4, to inquire into the State of the Civil List, which were of extreme importance, as the subject matter of examination was a debt of no less than 900,000l738llMr. Long
*ll735 said, that of all the persons who ever undertook a foreign embassy, no one was less likely or less inclined to shelter himself behind the secrecy connected with that station than the marquis Wellesley. That noble lord
*ll735Mr. Richard Wellesley
734 was happy to have it in his power to confirm the statement just made to the House by his right hon. friend, in every part where he had been appealed to. As to the building of the palace, he thought it was necessary; and that the expences attending it ought very fairly to be defrayed by the government. Though no person was less inclined than himself to revive the mention of a forgotten controversy, yet he begged to trouble the House with a few circumstances connected with the departure of his right hon. friend from Constantinople. He certainly confessed, that if he had been in Constantinople under the circumstances in which his right hon. friend was, he could not have acted otherwise than his right hon. friend did; bat, at the same time, in justice to the government which placed the squadron at the disposal of the British ambassador, he must say that that squadron was fully adequate to the objects which it was intended to accomplish. No blame, however, attached to the gallant admiral (Sir J. Duckworth) nor, as he knew, to any other person, although it must be always regretted that the British fleet did not sail
734Mr. Adair
 observed, that what he was about to remark might be irrelevant also, but he could not help inquiring why ministers had not proposed a Vote of Thanks to general Hill, for the defeat of general Girard, at Merida?Mr. Biddulph
 said the same; and that if the right hon. gentleman did not consent to have the name added, he should take the sense of the House on the proposed substitution.Mr. Whitbread
nonsense741lll said, that if the House delegated to this committee a power to send for persons, papers, and records, they would give a power they had never exercised themselves. He should, therefore, oppose such a proposition. That power had not been granted to the former committees; and the House itself bad never called for the details of the civil list, except by address, a mode which left to the advisers of the crown the option of withholding or granting the papers. There was but one instance to the contrary, and that a fortnight old.—In the year 1780, when the question of Economical Reform was before the House, it was a disputed point whether they had a right to examine the civil list at all. An appeal being made to the then Speaker (sir Fletcher Norton), he gave it as his opinion, that they had a right to inquire into it; but he made a distinction as to that part which related to the Royal Household: and the hon. member who then represented the borough of Woodstock, in supporting Sir Fletcher's opinion, ridiculed the idea of "serving the Royal Household by contract."—Much stress had been laid on the annual exceeding of the civil list over the estimate of 1804, which was stated at 124,000nonsense741lllMr. Courtenay
 bore testimony to the liberal and hospitable manner in which the right hon. gentleman, who spoke last, had supported the honour of his official station when on a mission from this country at the court of Sweden.Colonel Bagwell
 contended, that if the committee were not to have proper powers, it would be better that the matter should not go to a committee at all. He thought a committee of that House might be so far trusted as that it might be believed they would not unnecessarily inquire into any thing which delicacy forbad them making public.Mr. W. Smith
739 having laid the report of a former committee on the table, thought himself called on to say a. few words. When the application was formerly made to regulate the civil list, in reference to the debt which had accrued on it, a noble friend of his (lord Sidmouth) had thought it was due to parliament to investigate the manner in which that debt had been incurred. But it was not thought right to invest the committee with powers to examine the private concerns of the sovereign. It was never in contemplation to permit them to send for persons, documents, and records, with a view to that investigation. Such a proceeding Would
739Mr. Bathurst
747l said, that the only person found on either side of the House to oppose the motion for a committee, was a right hon. gentleman who was a pensioner to the amount of 1,500747lLord Folkestone
 replied, that the only difference between him and the right hon. gentleman was, that what the right hon. gentleman called an old, practice he called an old abuse.Lord Folkestone
l748 argued, that the excepting of this fund out of the civil lists of the sovereigns of this country from the time of king William, was not a proof of the fund not being an hereditary revenue of the crown, but rather the contrary. The fact was, then, when such exception took place, the crown took the disposal of the revenue into its own hands, and regular accounts of its application were constantly laid before parliament. It was not therefore, as the hon. gentleman had said, a fund out of sight. If this fund was to be appropriated particularly for local purposes, as it was contended, how came it that the Board of Trade, when recommending the repairing of the forts of Barbadoes, did not direct the expences attendant on such repairs to be defrayed out of these 4½ per cents? Lord Thurlow, too, as lord chancellor of England, had recognised the right of the crown to grant pensions out of this fund. The right hon. gentleman then defended the pension held by his right hon. friend. Considering his labour, for ten years, and the arduous situation which he filled with an inadequate salary, it was hard to say
l748Mr. Rose
 contrasted the situation of the inhabitants of Barbadoes now and at the time when, in the exuberance of their loyalty, they voluntarily made a grant of this revenue to the crown. Then they were a flourishing colony: now, they were reduced to a state calamitous in the extreme, by duties which we had imposed on them without their consent. They were now an oppressed, a tax-burthened, as well as a calumniated people.Mr. Marryat
 said, that he should not have risen, but for what had fallen from the hon. gentleman; and he certainly was astonished in no little degree, to hear the hon. gentleman's threat of renewing this question, after the plain and satisfactory statement of his right hon. friend. He did not mean to enter into the question; but he could not help alluding to the strange argument of the noble lord, which deduced a non-possession of this revenue in the crown from its being excepted out of the civil list. The simple truth was, that the excepting it out of the civil list was actually leaving it as an hereditary revenue to the crown. Before he sat down, he thought it right also merely to hint at what was said by an hon. gentleman of the distresses of the colonists. It was unfair to impute those distresses to duties levied on their sugars by us, when it was well known that they were to be attributed to the want of their usual great market,—to their being shut out from the continent.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion that after the hon. member had, no further off than yesterday, moved for the appointment of this very committee, and after the House had, on his own suggestion, reposed in him the duty of being a member of that committee, it was rather inconsistent in him now to come to the House, and desire to be discharged from attendance on the committee, merely because the House had not thought proper to grant to the hon. member alt that he asked. The House had refused, and he thought properly so, to grant to this committee greater powers than they had given to a committee on the same subject in 1804. But still when the committee met, if they should be of opinion that they had not due means of information on any particular subject, or even if any individual member of the committee was of that opinion, might not the committee, through their chairman, or any individual member, come to the House and move for such information as they might think wanting, on any branch of the subject referred to them? He did not see why the House ought to distrust the committee they had appointed; nor could he consent that the hon. member who had had a duty devolved on him by the House, at his own desire, should be discharged from that duty because he had not got all he wanted.Mr. Yorke
 was afraid that the pre-sent motion might be of dangerous example, and induce the people to believe that that House wished to deny inquiry.Mr. M. Montague
751 contended that the charge of inconsistency attempted to be made against his hon. friend was utterly unfounded. The right hon. gentleman said, it was inconsistent in his hon. friend to ask to be discharged of a duty which he had asked to be allowed to perform. Nothing, however, could be so unfounded. His hon.
751Mr. Horner
750 rose, for the purpose of moving the House that he might be discharged from attending the committee for which he had moved yesterday, on the subject of the expences of the Civil List. Mutilated as the committee was by the way in which it was appointed; deprived of the power of sending for persons, papers, and records; crippled as it was, in every respect, by the limited powers with which it was invested, or rather by the total want of all powers—he could not but conceive it perfectly inadequate to the accomplish-
750Mr. Eden
 asked, would the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer now undertake to consent to address the crown for the papers necessary to enable the committee to come to some judgment on the matter referred to them? At present the committee had nothing to do but to take their chance of any papers falling into their way.Mr. Macdonald
 contended, that his hon. friend had been perfectly consistent.Mr. P. Moore
 said, that the simple question was, did those funds belong to the crown, or did they not? He contended that they did not, that they were on the same footing as the revenues of the duchy of Cornwall, and no one would contend that the crown could grant pensions on the revenues of that duchy.Mr. Peter Moore
 wished that the hon. gentleman had studied the history of the period he had alluded to with a little more attention, and he would then have found that the grant to the king by the act of the colony 1663, was in consideration of the planters being allowed to keep possession of their lands; and though he readily admitted, that in the island of Barbadoes (and there alone) a part of this revenue was to be applied to local purposes, yet the remainder was intended to be reserved to the king. When the hon. gentleman referred to what had been done by queen Anne, he should have taken into his observation all the collateral circumstances. The fact was this: a commission was sent out to Barbadoes to look into the state of the fortifications, which they had reported to be in complete ruin, and an Address was consequently presented to the queen, that she would be pleased to apply these duties to the purpose of repairing those fortifications, which she accordingly did, and therefore they were excepted in the arrangement of her majesty's revenues. It was his decided opinion that these funds were a part of the hereditary revenue of the crown, and of which it could not be divested but by an express act of parliament; and this opinion had been held by a recent committee of that House, which had declared that the 4½ per cent, duties had been considered as continuing at the disposal of the crown as its hereditary revenue. When he considered these circumstances, he could not but express his dissent at going into a committee to inquire into the application of this inferior branch of his majesty's revenue.Mr. Long
 explained. He did not say that any length of time was a justifiable reason for the continuance of an abuse; but he stated the continuance of the practice in the crown of granting pensions out of this fund as a proof of its not being an abuse.Mr. Long
l749 observed, that it was very unusual for any member to take up a debate in the way that the right hon. gentleman had done. Without meaning any personal disrespect to the late Secretary of the Treasury, he had no hesitation to say, that on this subject he was a most questionable advocate: and however pleased the Chancellor of the Exchequer might have been with the speech of the right hon. gentleman, be must confess that what blunted the right hon. gentleman's appetite, only whetted his. He thought with his hon. friend behind him, that it was highly improper that the business of these 4½ per cent, duties should
l749Mr. Whitbread
 replied, and said, that what ever might be the fate of his motion, he was determined not to let the subject sleep. He pledged himself to take every opportunity of bringing it forward in every shape he could before the House.Mr. Creevey
746lllllll745l744ld743 rose, pursuant to notice, to make a motion upon this subject, and he thought the present moment a peculiarly fit one, when a new agreement was to be made with the executive government, and when, therefore, we ought
746lllllll745l744ld743Mr. Creevey
 was of opinion, that any information which might be wanted by the committee might still be obtained by coming to the House, after they were aware of the particular head on which the papers, or other information, would be required. Then, too, it would be in the power of the House to consider, whether the information ought to be asked by vote or by address. The limited powers of the committee at present, did not go to infer a permanent exclusion of evidence, but only put it on the committee, in the first place, to see what could be done by the information afforded them by the crown.Mr. Bathurst
757l.d.s.756l.l.755s.l.l.l.754 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the present state and condition of the Royal Marine Corps. He said, he felt so convinced that the claims of this deserving body of men wanted nothing but inquiry to make their justice and validity generally acknowledged, that he was only anxious that the inquiry might be promptly entered upon, and actively followed up, and should be more than satisfied if his motion should have even incidentally so favourable a result. The immediate object of his motion was the production of certain papers, and if he could prevail upon the House to grant those papers, it was his ultimate intention to found upon them a further motion for an Address to the Prince Regent, that he would be graciously pleased to take the present state of the Royal Marine Corps into his consideration. He was at the same time willing to avow, that should he receive from the First Lord of the Admiralty, any satisfactory declaration of his intentions to remedy what appeared to him to be serious grievances, he could have no objection to withdraw his motion. The merits of the Marine Corps were at once so high and so notorious, as to be acknowledged universally, and to be admitted among the first claimants to the gratitude of their country. If such a body complained of any alleged grievance, their complaint had a weighty claim upon the attention of that House; but it was not less the duty of that House to see them done justice to, because their commendable sense of their duty, as a military body, had kept them silent, patient, and forbearing, under the consciousness of existing grievances. He did not stand up there to complain on their behalf, as their commissioned advocate. He merely stood forward as an independent member of parliament, to point out what appeared to him to be grievances, and if the House thought them so, to call upon parliament to redress them. The Marine Corps were not placed upon an equal footing with every other corps in
757l.d.s.756l.l.755s.l.l.l.754Mr. Hutchinson
760759758 said, that, as to the latter motion, he was convinced that the House would not require a private letter to be produced. As the object of moving for the other paper was declared to be in order to ground an Address to the Prince Regent upon, he thought it necessary to make a few observations upon the case which the hon. gentleman had submitted to them. He perfectly agreed with every thing that had been said about the merits of the corps, but as they were well known to the House and to the empire at large, he did not think it necessary to say much upon that point. The House were always slow in interfering with matters of pure military regulation and detail; and unless they were convinced that the executive had neglected its duty, they seldom or never interfered in these points. How, he would ask, what could be a matter of purely military detail, more than the rank which marine officers should have upon garrison duty? It must be recollected. by the House, that there was no complaint of any of the old regulations for the marine corps having been departed from, but that it was merely a wish of the hon. gentleman to substitute some others in their place. The reason why they had not the same rank in garrisons, was, that they were seldom or never called upon to do garrison duty. If they were called upon to do garrison duty with other corps, there was no doubt but that their officers would take rank according to the date of their commissions; but the fact was, that while they were on shore, all that was required
760759758Mr. Yorke
 declared that to any idea which the hon. member might entertain as to prejudices existing in the Admiralty Board, either against the hon. gentleman, or any measure recommended by him, such an idea was wholly unfounded.Mr. Robinson
761 replied, declaring that he had felt himself impelled by an imperious duty to call the attention of the Admiralty to the degraded military state of the Marine Corps, and to the supercession in rank of the officers of that corps, by which they were not allowed to share in the garrison duty, which, he conceived, was a great slur on the corps. It was no answer to tell him that the officers in this corps did not purchase their commissions.
761Mr. Hutchinson
762 in rising to make his motion for a committee to inquire into the state of punishment by transportation to New South Wales, said, that as it was not likely it would meet with any opposition, he should not trouble the House with many words on the subject. All he felt anxious for was, that the House should receive the necessary information, not only as to the effect, but as to the nature of the punishment of transportation to New South Wales. It was extremely important that the House should be informed on both of those points. We who were every day adding to our penal code, must feel it of extreme importance that both the nature and effect of such a punishment as this should be known, not only to those who made the laws, bet to those who administered the punishment annexed to the violation of them. Many of our magistrates were quite uninformed, not only as to the nature and extent of this punishment, but also as to the effects produced by the infliction of it. There were many offences of a very slight nature, when compared with others, to which this punishment was annexed and inflicted. It behoved the 'House, therefore, to be better acquainted on this subject than they at present were.
762Sir S Romilly,
 said, that might be so; but still his hon. friend, as an individual, might be convinced they had ground of complaint. If that were so, he hoped he would persevere in his motion, and would not suffer the door to be shot on the present discussion.Mr. Grenfell
753 said, that no application had been made either to the board of Customs or the Treasury, on the subject. If the circumstance had been stated to him, he would have apprised the Treasury of it, where, he was sure, no well-founded-complaint ever went unredressed. He would, however, immediately inquire into the circumstances. Certainly, the Custom-house officers at Bristol could have no wilful intention to infringe a law so,
753Mr. W. Pole
 declared, that he never heard it insinuated that the Marine Corps had any peculiar ground of complaint.Sir Edward Buller
 again observed, that he preferred mentioning the business publicly, than having recourse to a private communication.Sir J. Newport
752 said, be did not entertain any doubt
752Sir J. Newport
782781780779778777 could not pretend to say what conclusions the hon. gentleman might draw in his own mind, or what he might be disposed to argue; but he assured him that his conclusion was wrong, if he supposed that the refusal of the papers moved for could proceed only from a spirit of hostility to America. On the contrary, if he now wished to withhold those papers from the hon. gentleman, it was merely to avoid quarrelling with America, if it were possible
782781780779778777The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that when he read the resolutions passed in America, he wished that resolutions of a contrary nature should be passed to meet them. The American government had in fact declared, that they would go to war with this country as soon as they were prepared. He thought that such resolutions might fairly be met by a declaration of war upon our part, for if the alternative was war or humiliation, surely the former was infinitely preferable.Mr. Bastard
 (of Kerry) ort the contrary was of opinion, that war with America ought-to he avoided as much as possible. He had great doubts whether we were right in the present quarrel. As to what had been so much talked of,—our maritime rights,—he believed that much of what was claimed as maritime right, was somewhat doubtful. It appeared now, that we were to maintain those rights, as they were called, against almost all Europe. He hoped that those rights which were to be maintained against so formidable a force, would be just and clear beyond dispute. The policy of a war with America appeared to him to be as doubtful as the justice of it. It would cause an accession to France of many advantages in naval stores, and of a large body of sailors not inferior to our own.Mr. Herbert
788787786785784pari passu783 thought that notwithstanding the moderation of tone and manner of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, it was hardly possible that war between this country and America Could
788787786785784pari passu783Mr. Baring
l.l.803l.l.802
l.l.803l.l.802Mr. Lockhart
, in agreeing to refer the petition to a committee, begged it to be distinctly understood, that his concurrence in the motion was not occasioned by any impression on his mind that the case of the claimants was such as to call on the House to discharge the debt originally due to them in the American States. He was influenced not to withhold the consent of the crown to such a committee by the considerations of the great extent of the case, and the importance "of the circumstance to individuals. He apprehended, however, it would be found, that government having done all that it possibly could to enforce the claims of the petitioners on the American government, and having obtained all that it could for them from that government, without going to war on the subject, the petitioners would ultimately experience it to be impracticable to fix upon the country the obligation of paying them the difference between the sum actually received, and that which they alleged to be due.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not see the necessity of referring the petition to the committee, in order that the facts alone might be laid on the table of the House. The question might be argued on the facts, as stated in the hon. gentleman's speech.Mr. Baring
 observed, that the individuals concerned were desirous rather that the facts, should be reported by a committee of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
793 said, that he differed totally from the hon. member for Yorkshire in giving his confidence to the minister. So far, indeed, was he from placing confidence in the minister, that, not to speak of a measure of such vital importance as that of peace or war, he was not disposed to place the slightest reliance on him even in the most trivial matters. Let the House, by conceding the motion of his hon. friend, shew to the American people that the great body of the House of Commons were really actuated by the true spirit of conciliation. He deprecated a war with America; and recommended conciliation in our counsels at home, not only towards that country, but towards Ireland, an integral part of the empire. He agreed with the hon. member for Devonshire (Mr. Bastard), that war was preferable to humiliation. No brave man—no man living under an arbitrary, much less a free government, could hesitate on the subject; but he conjured them not to let passion and prejudice force them into an unnecessary and ruinous war. He would say most solemnly and most sincerely, that if he were to judge between the two countries, he should be obliged to vote against his own; he should be forced to say, that England had acted most tyrannically and unjustly to America. The rights which the minister claimed for England were those of plunderers; and Englishmen, great with the spirit of their constitution, ought to tell him, that they would not act like plunderers in compliance with his tyrannical policy. The motion for these papers was a most praise-worthy owe. After what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, how could the House and the country expect a peaceful termination of the differences with America? That right hon. gentleman had said, "I wish for peace; but if we have war, I do not think it will be so fatal as some gentlemen suppose, although of course it must be attended with some disadvantages and inconveniences." Disadvantages and inconveniencies! Was that the way to treat such a serious subject! The man who could speak of the calamities of war so lightly was set worthy of filling a high
793Mr. Hutchinson
792 said, that in voting against the motion, he was not guided by the view taken of the subject by the right hon. (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) who asserted, that the production of the papers might interfere with a pending negociation; nor was he influenced by the argument of his hon. friend (Mr. Wilberforce) that America might be exasperated by such a discussion. But be acted from this feeling, that if the subject were entertained at present, it would be a sort of imputation of blame against the persons who had conducted the negociation, a length to which he was by no means prepared to go. The discussion, in itself, would be harmless; for, in a few days, the subject would be agitated on another motion; but, in his opinion, if the papers were granted, it would be a sort of prejudgment of the question respecting the Orders in Council? He was one of those who voted against the Orders in the first instance, but still he did not think that the high ground of morality which was taken by some who objected to them, was altogether candid.—It was now at least doubtful whether they had been advantageous, or the contrary, in their practical effects; and if it should be found that they had supported the maritime rights of England, without the maintenance of which rights it was impossible for England to exist as a nation, he would then conceive himself right in altering his original opinion concerning them. A great part of the question was, whether the Orders in Council did not prevent America from carrying continental produce into competition with ours in the South American and colonial markets: and he hoped that when the merits of those Orders in
792Mr. H. Thornton
cui bono794 complimented the last hon. speaker on the consistency of the beginning and end of his speech. He had certainly stated his contempt of the minister most cavalierly, and very much, to be sure, to his own satisfaction, but other members might differ from the hon. gentleman, and he for one begged leave to differ from him totally and entirely. For his part, he placed the highest confidence in the minister. He thought that the government had conducted the affairs of the country in the most admirable manner, and that was not his humble opinion alone, but the opinion of many who had more experience and were infinitely of more consideration than himself. But be the talents of the ministers and his colleagues what they might, it was at least evident, that their conduct towards America had been conciliatory; that it was as conciliatory as was compatible with the independence of Englishmen; who, though they should not wish to be the aggressors towards America, did not, however, at the same time, like to receive insult from her. There was a deal of swaggering exterior in the conduct of America; but he was much deceived, if there was not also much
cui bono794Mr. Leycester
 explained. He had not said that the trade of the country was at present in a state of the highest prosperity; but, in answer to a proposition of the mover, he had observed, that the commerce of the empire, which had been impaired by the Berlin and Milan decrees, was restored to its original vigour when the system of retaliation was resorted to; and, in fact, it had been raised several millions above what it had ever been before.Mr. Stephen
775774773 expressed his satisfaction at having heard from the hon. gentleman, that he had no intention of going into the justice or policy of the Orders in Council, since the subject would soon come in a separate shape before the House, when it might be discussed with so much more advantage. But while this relieved him from the necessity of entering into the question of justice and policy, which he was fully prepared to do, he could not but regret, that without arguing the subject, the hon. gentleman had jumped to a conclusion—that he had dealt in generalities, and said, that the conduct of this country towards America was wrong. By this proceeding of the hon. gentleman, he was placed in a very unpleasant dilemma. He could not enter fully into the conduct of the Americans, without occasioning a discussion which it was far from his wish to produce; and yet he would assert, in general, that instead of there having been any injustice in the conduct of this country towards America, we had the strongest case against her that ever one nation had against another: but he would not appeal to the evidence which he had brought with him, and he trusted be should be delivered from ever engaging in so unpleasant a dispute. At present, he would only say in general, that there never was
775774773Mr. Stephen
776 had not heard one argument against the motion of his hon. friend, except the one which went to slate that the House was nor the fit place for discussing the differences between the two governments. He deprecated the idea which seemed every day to be gaining ground, that it was necessary for the well being of the country, to shut out information from parliament on subjects of the greatest importance to the existence of the country. The hon. and learned gentleman had not justified the conduct of the British government towards America, as reprobated by his hon. friend. Was the conduct complained of, such as ought to be pursued, and tolerated against the minister of an independent nation? Was there a single individual in this country (supposing America had treated the British minister in a similar manner), who would not have held up his hand in favour of war; and had not America great reasons for complaining of the arrogant and insolent manner in which her minister was received? He should have conceived under all the circumstances, it would have been impossible for ministers to deny the papers. The state of things called upon them, in his opinion, to review and retrace their steps in the course of the discussions. With respect to what had been stated about the Orders in Council, he thought the hon. gentleman might have retracted his opinion on the effect of those orders, the more so, as a great statesman
776Mr. Curwen
772771bonâ fide770769768767766765764763, in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, for an Address to the Prince Regent, praying that the correspondence which had pass-ed between the government of this country and that of the United States should be laid before parliament, said, he might be perhaps allowed to indulge in a sentiment of regret, that on a subject so important as a question concerning the situation of this country with respect to America, so few members should be present. He would, nevertheless, bring it forward, as, whatever might be the feelings of others on the subject, their conduct should have no effect upon him, convinced as he was, that, in submitting that motion to the House, with which it was his intention to conclude (and which was merely a motion for information), it was advisable that no delay should occur,—that not a single day should be lost. All parties, both in this country and in America, had professed to deprecate a war between the two countries, and all parties had acknowledged that such an event was but too probable. The government of America and the government of this country, from the beginning of the commercial and the diplomatic contest
772771bonâ fide770769768767766765764763Mr. Whitbread
801800799798797cui bono;796795cui bono, although he was aware that the House was anxious to come to a decision, yet hoped that he might receive the customary indulgence of being allowed to answer the arguments of those who had opposed the motion. The hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, was at a loss to discover the 801800799798797cui bono;796795cui bonoMr. Whitbread
791790789 said, that when two countries were in a state of pending negociation, it was improper to move for papers by which that negociation was liable to be affected. Those who, under such circumstances, called upon the government to produce them, rendered themselves responsible for all the mischief which their production might create. The case was somewhat altered, when these papers were already before the public, but still it was hard to separate them from those which were at the moment passing between the ministers of the two countries. If he agreed in opinion with the hon. gentleman (Mr. Curwen) who had argued with such extraordinary animation in favour of taking the power out of the hands of ministers—if he agreed in his opinion of their principles, he should certainly come to the same conclusion; but reposing as he did a perfect confidence in his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, trusting as he did to the purity of his motives, and the uprightness of his views, he could not deny his claims to the confidence of the House, when he declared that the production of the papers in question would have an injurious tendency. As to the point of conciliation, he agreed in its propriety, and also in the answer which was given to it. If his hon. and learned relation (Mr. Stephen) had followed the last speaker, he certainly must have gone into the whole of the argument respecting the Orders in Council, bat would that have tended to conciliation? When they knew the different opinions entertained by the two great parties, they must know that it was not; when they looked further, and considered the nature of public discussions, on one side the conduct of America arraigned, on the other that conduct justified, and the conduct of England deprecated, and when they considered how far the passions and prejudices
791790789Mr. Wilberforce
prima facie admitted the prima facieMr. Baring
"That the amount of Exchequer Bills which may be so exchanged shall not exceed, in the whole, the principal sum of 14 millions sterling."llll"That every person interested in or entitled unto any Exchequer Bill or Bills, dated between the 1st of March 1811 and the 14th of Feb. 1812, who shall carry the same to the office of the Paymasters of Exchequer Bills between the 22d and 29th of Feb. 1812, both inclusive, (unless a sum amounting to 14 millions sterling, principal money of the said Bills, shall be sooner subscribed), shall be paid the interest that shall become due thereon, respectively, to the 9th of March 1812, inclusive, and shall have, in exchange for such Bill or Bills, a certificate or certificates to the governor and company of the Bank of England, expressing the principal sum contained in such Bill or Bills, which certificate or certificates shall entitle such person or persons, for every 100llll
"That the amount of Exchequer Bills which may be so exchanged shall not exceed, in the whole, the principal sum of 14 millions sterling."llll"That every person interested in or entitled unto any Exchequer Bill or Bills, dated between the 1st of March 1811 and the 14th of Feb. 1812, who shall carry the same to the office of the Paymasters of Exchequer Bills between the 22d and 29th of Feb. 1812, both inclusive, (unless a sum amounting to 14 millions sterling, principal money of the said Bills, shall be sooner subscribed), shall be paid the interest that shall become due thereon, respectively, to the 9th of March 1812, inclusive, and shall have, in exchange for such Bill or Bills, a certificate or certificates to the governor and company of the Bank of England, expressing the principal sum contained in such Bill or Bills, which certificate or certificates shall entitle such person or persons, for every 100llll805ldsldsdslldsldslll said, he had given notice yesterday of his intention to move in the committee a Resolution for funding Exchequer Bills in the Navy 5 per cents. It was not, he conceived, necessary to enter into any detailed view, and he should therefore proceed to state the terms to the House. The first proposition was, that for every 100"That the amount of Exchequer Bills which may be so exchanged shall not exceed, in the whole, the principal sum of 14 millions sterling."llll"That every person interested in or entitled unto any Exchequer Bill or Bills, dated between the 1st of March 1811 and the 14th of Feb. 1812, who shall carry the same to the office of the Paymasters of Exchequer Bills between the 22d and 29th of Feb. 1812, both inclusive, (unless a sum amounting to 14 millions sterling, principal money of the said Bills, shall be sooner subscribed), shall be paid the interest that shall become due thereon, respectively, to the 9th of March 1812, inclusive, and shall have, in exchange for such Bill or Bills, a certificate or certificates to the governor and company of the Bank of England, expressing the principal sum contained in such Bill or Bills, which certificate or certificates shall entitle such person or persons, for every 100llll
"That the amount of Exchequer Bills which may be so exchanged shall not exceed, in the whole, the principal sum of 14 millions sterling."llll"That every person interested in or entitled unto any Exchequer Bill or Bills, dated between the 1st of March 1811 and the 14th of Feb. 1812, who shall carry the same to the office of the Paymasters of Exchequer Bills between the 22d and 29th of Feb. 1812, both inclusive, (unless a sum amounting to 14 millions sterling, principal money of the said Bills, shall be sooner subscribed), shall be paid the interest that shall become due thereon, respectively, to the 9th of March 1812, inclusive, and shall have, in exchange for such Bill or Bills, a certificate or certificates to the governor and company of the Bank of England, expressing the principal sum contained in such Bill or Bills, which certificate or certificates shall entitle such person or persons, for every 100llll805ldsldsdslldsldslllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
817 took upon himself to assert, that in some instances the military employed to deter the rioters had been attacked by persons provided with arms, and that it often happened that the depredators effected their purpose of destroying frames by the use of offensive weapons. If any thing could supersede the necessity of inquiry, and show the danger of delay, it would be such a statement. The origin of the late outrages certainly was the decay of trade, and as the distress not only affected the district round Nottingham, but was extended into
817Mr. Leigh Keck
807l said, there was hardly an argument resorted to by the hon. baronet, on the present occasion, which he did not urge against the proposition of the former year. He appeared to think that there was some difference between the notices of both years to the city, but he would state that, in point of fact, there was none. It was true, there was a greater depreciation in the present, but the excess proposed above the former did not amount to more than 2,000,000807lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
812811810809808 rose and said, that he felt great pain in the discharge of the important duty which imposed upon him the necessity of adverting to those transactions which had taken place in some of the counties of England, and which, in their nature, were so disgraceful to the country, and so injurious to the best interests of those places where such enormities had been perpetrated. But while he deeply lamented the occurrence of these acts of lawless violence, he had the satisfaction to state to the House that the disturbances had been gradually diminishing; and, for more than a week, had altogether subsided. But though this favourable change had taken place, it was under circumstances which left reason to apprehend that that disposition might again manifest itself in fresh acts of violence. He had, therefore, felt it his duty to consult with those gentlemen, whose local knowledge gave them the best means of ascertaining the real nature and extent of the evil, and it was in consequence of those communications, that he now came forward to propose a remedy. The enormities which had been committed in Nottingham and the adjacent counties, were so well known to the House and to every man in the country, that it would be unnecessary for him to trouble them with the disgusting recital: it was notorious that houses had been broken open, and machinery of different kinds destroyed,
812811810809808Mr. Secretary Ryder
815814, (member for Nottingham,) observed that the statement of the riotous situation of the county of Nottingham was unfortunately too true; and it was no less true, that the spirit of insubordination had threatened the safety of the neighbouring counties. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the disputes between the manufacturers and their employers was the cause of those riots. Now, in his opinion, the real and primary cause was the great decay of trade, which affected a branch of
815814Mr. J. Smith
 thought the House ought to have some ground before them to justify their interference, something that should appear on their books. A local bill might be brought in, preceded by a petition from the magistrates, or a committee might be appointed to inquire into the circumstances of the case, which, he conceived, would be rather a better method of proceeding. Great advantages were likely to result from the inquiries of a committee up stairs: it would shew those misguided men that the eye of the legislature was upon them, and it would show posterity the grounds on which the House had acted. What had the right hon. Secretary brought forward to justify the infliction of death? Did he state that this act of the 28th of the King, had been put in force, and found unavailing? Had any convictions taken place under that act? However averse he was to punish with death, if transportation were found insufficient, it would be necessary to have recourse to the severer punishment. If any body of men chose to array themselves against the public peace, they must by all means be put down; but it was indispenisible to see first, whether the existing laws were or were not sufficient. It was well known, that in general, capital punishments were not much calculated to promote convictions. Juries were always averse to convict capitally, and witnesses averse to give evidence. He thought, therefore, that the right hon. Secretary ought to come forward with some cases of convictions under the act of the 28th of the King.Mr. C. W. Wynn
, impressed with the necessity of putting the House in possession of all the circumstances of this important subject, proceeded to move, "That a committee be appointed to inquire into the late Riots in the county of Nottingham, and the neighbouring counties, and what further legal provisions, if any, are necessary for the suppression thereof, and also the steps which have been taken for the discovery of the offenders."Mr. Herbert
 argued against the appointment of the committee, as wholly unnecessary. He was persuaded that the House would think that the general notoriety of the riots was a sufficient ground for parliamentary procedure, and he deprecated any delay in providing a remedy for the existing evil.Mr. Secretary Ryder
822821820 replied to most of the objections urged against the present measure. As for the extension of the provisions in the Bills to other districts, that might, if necessary, be made an instruction when the House came into a committee; which time would also be more convenient, from their having the Bills printed. With regard to what seemed to have created the greatest difference of opinion, namely, that a previous committee ought to have been appointed on the Report, from which they should found the necessary measures, he could not see that such a step was at all called for by the circumstances of the case. If the House Had heard that any doubt was entertained
822821820The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, before he could consent to add to the number of capital punishments, must be convinced that the existing laws were insufficient. Of this there was as yet no proof, as there had been no trial on the subject. An hon. member had stated, in the course of the evening, that the riots which had extended themselves to Leicestershire, had been suppressed by the activity of the magistrates. He wished the House to know why the magistrates of Nottinghamshire had failed in doing that which the magistrates of Leicestershire had so successfully accomplished. It was therefore his intention, unless some other hon. member would undertake the task, to move for the appointment of a Committee to investigate this subject.Mr. Herbert
 then moved, "That leave be given to bring in a Bill for the more effectual preservation of the peace within the county of Nottingham, and the town and county of the town of Nottingham."Mr. Secretary Ryder
 wished more particularly to know why the county of Nottingham had been selected from the rest of the kingdom, for the exclusive operation of the proposed measure? If the Bill had been to provide for the better watch and ward of the whole island, it would have met with his hearty concurrence.Mr. Wynn
 repeated the statements which he made in an earlier part of the evening, and added, that if the hon. gentleman had had personal observation of the state of Nottingham and its neighbourood, he would have felt the necessity of the intended measure.—Leave was accordingly granted, and the Bills brought in and read a first time.Colonel Eyre
, in explanation, observed that the outrages were committed sometimes at a distance of thirty miles from the town of Nottingham.Colonel Eyre
813, (member for Nottingham shire) rose to second the motion. However unwilling, on other occasions, to increase the criminal code of the country,
813Colonel Eyre
819 perfectly agreed with the right hon. gentleman who spoke last. He had a knowledge of Nottingham in his capacity of a magistrate, and would say, that if the same activity had been shewn by the county magistrates, as had been evinced by those of the county of the town of Nottingham, there would have been no necessity for this Bill. During the last month not a single outrage had been committed within that district known as the town and county of the town of Nottingham. He hoped in future to see a fuller attendance of members in the House on discussions upon this subject; that the stigma thrown upon the House by the late Mr. Burke, that there was no better mode of ensuring a thin attendance of members than a proposition to enact new capital punishments, might be wiped away. The riots originated in extreme distress. He did not say this as a justification of them, very far from it; but as a reason why they
819Mr. Henry Martin
, from all he could learn, did not think the right hon. gentleman would be able to fund the Exchequer Bills this year to the amount proposed, and therefore he thought it better not to attempt it. He was also apprehensive that the system might be carried too far.Mr. H. Smith
818 observed, that he should be extremely sorry if the inhabitants of the district in question, should be, as it were, taken out of the King's protection by this Bill, without serious antecedent examination of the necessity of making the offence capital. According to his apprehension, the arguments of his hon. friend (Mr. Frankland) tended to a very different conclusion from that to which he had arrived. When his hon. friend had quoted the high authority of sir Walter Raleigh and sir Francis Bacon upon this subject, he took it for granted at first, that his hon. friend meant the House to follow the example in which they took a part: for his hon. friend had stated, that the Bill then passed was introduced after the report of a Committee of Enquiry. Parliament, it therefore appeared, did not then think it right to extend the penal code without an enquiry into the necessity of doing so: and surely parliament ought to be as cautious now; particularly when a proposition was made to apply capital punishment to a particular district. According to his hon. friend's arguments, the House should follow the precedent in Elizabeth; and though they could not expect such distinguished names and high authority on their committee, there was little doubt that they could find many respectable well-informed gentlemen to sit in it. Another hon. member had said, "Is not the necessity sufficiently known?" Perhaps it might: but assertions of necessity made in parliamentary speeches went for nothing. When parliament made a strong law, the report of a Committee of Enquiry into the subject of it, would shew its justification, which never could be done by any member rising in that House, and saying "I know this, and I know that." But the hon. gent. had said, that the time pressed; if so, he desired to know why such delay had occurred? Why had not the magistrates applied sooner? Why had the Secretary of State for the Home Department been asleep all this while? Time enough had elapsed to propose the measure long before now: the House might have been put into possession of all the facts, and have proceeded in the application of a suitable remedy. He could not avoid viewing the way in
818Mr. Sheridan
823 wished that there was a standing order of the House that no enactment which involved capital punishment, should be made without previous inquiries by a committee as to the necessity of such enactment. With regard to the infliction of the punishment of death, so far from its operating as a check upon crimes, he maintained that it had rather increased than diminished them. It had been observed by the hon. member for Nottingham, that the disturbers went about armed; but it was to be remembered, that the penalty of death now proposed to be inflicted, was for breaking frames, and not for using arms. He regretted that distress should have driven them to such acts, but the question for he House to consider was, whether the punishment provided by the present Bill would prevent the repetition of such excesses. Would the facilities of conviction be increased by it? Certainly not. Was there any occasion for haste in passing the Bill? Certainly not. He repeated his wish, therefore, that a committee should be appointed, in order that no penal enactment should pass without such solemnity and such inquiry, as might leave recorded evidence of the grounds upon which Parliament had acted. Might it not otherwise be thought, "as it was generally thought by all who had written upon the criminal code of this country, that we inflicted the penalty of death too slightly? If a committee were to be proposed, he should certainly vote for its appointment. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid great stress on this being only meant as a temporary act, but the House ought to proceed with caution. The statute of the 39th of Elizabeth, relative to soldiers and sailors begging in the streets, which had so lately been brought under the notice of the House, was at first only a temporary law; but it was from time to time continued, and at length became perpetual, to the disgrace of the statute book. He could not divest himself of the opinion that a committee ought to precede the enactment of death. He was
823Mr. Whitbread
, living in the district complained of, and representing a borough carrying on a manufacture similar to that of Nottingham, felt it necessary to say a few words. He impressed upon the House the importance of a committee, that posterity might know with what due deliberation the House had proceeded, before it determined on taking away the lives of any of the subjects of the crown. He recommended that the first Bill proposed should be only temporary; (hear, hear!) and that the second which went to introduce the excellent system of watch and ward, so great a favourite with their forefathers, should be made to apply generally to the united kingdom. It might be wanted at Leicester as well as at Nottingham; indeed, during the disturbances, information was received that emissaries had been sent from the latter to the former town.Mr. Babington
816, in rising, adverted to an
816Mr. Frankland
806 said, he was quite at a loss to suppose how the right hon. gentleman could expect to add the sum of 14 million to a fund which must have experienced a great depression. He approved of the principle of dividing as much as possible the sums to be raised among the different funds. If the right hon. gentleman's object could be accomplished, he saw no objection to it, but he must put out of his calculation entirely, any advantages likely to result from a state of peace: to that state, however desirable, they must look with little hope, after the declaration of an eloquent statesman, that "war was now the element in which we must live and move." The consequence of the present proposition, he believed, would be, that the stock would become a heavy stock. But after all, he would ask, what a loan were they to expect this year? For this was but the commencement, the
806Sir T. Turton
827 having moved the second reading of the Bill for the more exemplary punishment of persons destroying or injuring any Stocking or Lace Frames, or other
827Mr. Secretary Ryder
828 declared, that in the present alarming situation of the county of Nottingham, he could have wished, instead of opposing, to have supported the measures of administration; but, after the most mature consideration, he felt it altogether impossible to concur in voting for this Bill. Every body felt the danger of a numerous body of men leagued together in active opposition to the laws of the country, and who had hitherto defeated both the civil and the military power. This danger was the more alarming from the connection between the county of Nottingham and other manufacturing districts of the country. But however strongly he, in common with others, felt this danger, he could not concur in the present Bill, without violating a most important principle in penal legislature—a principle which he had already had the good fortune more than once to join with a majority of the House in sanctioning. The mildest character of the present Bill was, that it would be ineffectual. They had been told that the riots had continued many months; that the local police had been aided by the efforts of the London police; that rewards had been offered for conviction; but that all the efforts of the civil power, joined to the allurements of profit, and the assistance of a military force, had been found completely ineffectual; and that with all this powerful array, not a single conviction had taken place under the existing law, which sentenced all framebreakers to transportation for 14 years. Now, if the House had been told that any individuals had been convicted, and punished with transportation, but that from the slightness of the punishment, the motives of the unfortunate persons had been found stronger than the dread of conviction, then he could conceive it might be proper to call upon the House for measures of greater severity. No such information, however, had been communicated to the House, and it was merely the state of impunity which they were called on to redress. The right hon. Secretary of State proposed for this purpose to make the offence capital. But how could this operate on persons in the situation of the unfortunate persons in question, among whom there had already been found to
828Mr. Abercromby
 had no hesitation in declaring it to be his opinion, that the combination which existed among these misled people was so strong, that to break it effectually required measures of the utmost severity. He must support the Bill, on the ground that the terror of the punishment of death was indispensible on the present occasion.Mr. Orde
829 regretted that the House had been denied all previous enquiry on a measure which would go to affect the lives of so many of our fellow creatures. From all the partial information he had been able to collect, these disturbances owed their origin to two
829Mr. W. Herbert
830 wished to observe, that though the destruction of stocking frames was punishable with transportation, yet there was no such law at present to protect the lace-frames employed in one of the most elegant manufactures of this country. That defect, therefore, ought to be immediately supplied. It was his firm opinion that some measure ought forthwith to be resorted to: the state of the county, to his certain knowledge imperiously required it; and he must support the present Bill till he heard of some preferable measure. He believed that the great cause of all the excesses was the decay of trade; and he hoped, that in due time, that subject would be enquired into. But this was not the precise moment for
830Mr. John Smith
 was convinced that the anxiety not to increase the number of capital punishments, was not confined to the hon. gentleman opposite, but that it was generally prevalent in the House. This was a case, however, in which he thought that the enactment of capital punishment would have a beneficial effect, and would particularly operate to deter offenders, through the medium of the impression which the fear of it would make on the minds of their wives and families. The offences in question were, indeed, of the most serious nature, and approached most nearly to constructive levying of war, that was, to high treason. Lord Hale mentioned a case of breaking looms in London, which five out of the twelve judges declared to be actually constructive levying of war, or high treason. All lawyers must be acquainted with the case of Damaree and Purchase, in the reign of Anne, executed for entering into an association to destroy all Presbyterian meeting houses; the judges holding that the offence was constructive levying of war, or high treason. He should support the Bill; but he conceived that the offender ought to have some guards similar to those possessed by any one accused of high treason; and, therefore, when in the committee, he should propose the introduction of a clause giving the prisoner the benefit of one counsel.Mr. Lockhart
 supported the motion. The situation of Nottingham he conceived to be somewhat like that of some counties in Ireland, when those counties were agitated by the White Boys. At that time capital penalties were enacted against those offenders; and the effect was such as might be anticipated from the operation of the present Bill. The law would not be like the laws of the Medes and Persians, irrevocable, but might be, and ought to be, repealed whenever the emergency should cease.Mr. Herbert (of Kerry)
831 was of opinion, that the proposed measure would not have the effect expected from it. The greater the terror inspired by the act, the less he conceived would be the likelihood of detection. The preamble of the present Bill stared, that the 28th of the King had been ineffectual in putting a stop to the outrages complained of; but he would ask, where was the proof of the inefficacy of that
831Mr. Wrottesley
833832 said, that there were two points on which the whole House had agreed:—one, that the punishment of death should never be recurred to, except in cases were all other species of punishment had been found ineffectual; the other, that an evil now existed to which a remedy ought to be applied as soon as possible. For his part, he was convinced that the remedy proposed was no remedy whatsoever; the evil would still continue to exist in spite of it. He confessed from whatever cause these disturbances proceeded,—whether from a spirit of malice against the master-manufacturers, or from the idea that the frames diminished human labour, and encroached on human industry,—that the existence of them was a monstrous evil. It was an evil, more over, which had existed in the face of a law; and he could attribute its continuance only to two causes,—either to conspiracy to suppress evidence against offenders, or to supineness in the magistracy. It was folly to talk of the terror which would arise from converting the punishment of transportation for fourteen years, into the punishment of death. The terror of the one would always have an almost equal influence with the other on the human mind; and he would answer for it, that this terror would not tend to diminish the evil. It was evident, if the existence of the evil were to be attributed to a conspiracy to suppress evidence, that the terror of a greater punishment would tend the more to keep witnesses from coming forward. If, on the other hand, the magistrates had not made sufficient exertions under the existing statute, it was plain that the change of punishment would not make them more active. The great evil to be complained of was, that the law had been converted into a mere dead letter, that it had been made only a lifeless scarecrow, from which custom had removed even the terror that might originally have been felt on beholding it. If, indeed, the statute of the 28th of Geo. 3, had been duly enforced, and these iniquitous proceedings had been persevered in, in defiance of it, then there might be some plausible ground for the measure before the House. As the Bill had only been delivered since the
833832Sir S. Romilly
834 thought, that after the long continuance of the outrages which had so much disgraced the country,—after they had so long braved the law, and had even been alluded to as a matter of exultation by the common enemy,—it was right that the government should adopt more efficient measures than had been hitherto resorted to. He regretted the mode of opposition which had been pursued against the Bill; and was particularly sorry for what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last. As to any "reproach on the executive for not being sufficiently active, he had merely to appeal to the testimony borne to their exertions by the hon. gentleman, the member for Nottingham. The real question was, not whether the existing law was adequate or not to the putting down of the disturbances, but whether the terror inspired by a heavier punishment would not more effectually answer
834Mr. Bathurst
835 said, that the right hon. gentleman who spoke last had set out with a total misconception; for the question was not, as he had stated, whether the existing law was a sufficient remedy for the evil, but, whether the proposed new law was likely to be efficient? This he contended was not the case; for it signified little what punishment wag enacted, if persons could not be found to give information against the offenders. The use of a committee would have been, that an inquiry might have been made into the alleged insufficiency of the existing law—into the fact of any conviction having taken place under it—into the necessity for a severer law—or into the causes why evidence had been held back. Measures might have been devised for the suppression or prevention of those outrages, rewards might have been offered, or severer enactments proposed against persons who deterred witnesses from coming forward; instead of which, the authors of this measure came forward, for fear it should be doubted that the executive had done something, without any assurance that they had reached the root of the evil—which was the only means of preventing or remedying it. On the night when this Bill was introduced, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exche-
835Mr. C. W. Wynn
836 said, that if the Bill, from its provisions or its object, appeared to him simply to extend the act of the 28th of the King to lace frames as well as stocking frames, he should have thought it desirable; but he knew no way in which the purpose of the measure was to be collected except from the right hon. mover himself, or from the words of the Bill, by which he understood, that it was to be made capital in both instances to destroy frames. Now, if ever a legislature took a wrong step, it was when there existed a degree of indignation against persons who had committed violent aggressions against private property and public peace. On that part of the subject he was far from being convinced by the right hon. gentleman who supported the Bill. Here were offences against which a law existed enforced by no light punishment. Had the punishment been tried, or the law enforced? Before any one asked him to extend the punishment and to make it capital, he ought to prove that the law had been enforced, and had been found ineffectual, and then he might have a right to call for the enactment of capital punishment, but not till then. But that was not the case here, for he did not find that there had been any prosecution upon the 28th of the King, and perhaps there had been no occasion for it; so there was no authority to say that the law was not fully adequate to its purpose, except the necessity of extending it to the breaking of lace frames. But why was not the law enforced? Because the difficulty of detection prevented it. Would capital punishment increase the means of detection? If the difficulty of convicting offenders consisted in the reluctance of witnesses, was there any thing in the nature of capital punishment which would lessen that reluctance? He apprehended not. The only remaining principle on which the right hon. gentleman recommended the measure to the House was, that it
836Sir Arthur Piggott
837 said, that having already spoken fully on the subject of this Bill, it would be unnecessary for him to do more now, than to make a few observations on what had fallen from hon. members in the course of the debate. The hon. and learned gentleman, who had just sat down, had objected to the punishment of death being enacted by this Bill; and for the reason, that no trial had been made of the efficacy of the penalty of transportation, because not one prosecution had taken place. The hon. and learned gentleman thought, therefore, that making the destruction of lace frames liable to the same punishment as that of stocking frames, namely, transportation, would answer the purpose. How, then, would the matter stand, according to the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman? The preamble of the Bill must run thus, "Where as the punishment of transportation exists against the breaking of stocking frames, and has been found ineffectual; therefore it is thought necessary, that the same punishment should be extended to the breaking of lace frames." It was, in his opinion, idle and nugatory to enact such a law, as it would be impossible that any good purpose could be answered by it. With regard to the objection of extending the punishment of death, he begged the House to recollect, that this was only intended as a temporary measure, to meet a pressing temporary evil; and that the hope was, that the terror of death might put a speedy end to the present unlawful and alarming proceedings in Nottingham, and the neighbouring counties. If the state of the town and county of Nottingham were considered, no gentleman would contend that the dis-837Mr. Secretary Ryder
838 said, that after the outrages which had been committed, he would vote for the Bill going to a committee; but
838Mr. Bastard
839 acquitted the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department of any want of vigour; as it had been allowed on all hands, that he had done every thing that could be done by an early interposition both of the civil and of the military power. He must, however, object to the Bill, because it was a clumsy expedient, and because it extended the long list of our capital punishments. In his opinion, the great defect of the legislature of this country for the last century had been, that when they found the people prone to the commission of crimes, they, in order to put a stop to them, enacted the penalty of death; by which offenders had escaped punishment almost as much as if no law had been enacted at all. He was particularly averse from proceeding with the present Bill without enquiry, because the present was a period of tranquillity in Nottingham; and there was, in consequence, no cause for haste. The statute book teemed with sentences inflicting the penalty of death; and he thought it was a subject the revision of which would well become, the policy as well as the humanity of the House. So long back as 40 years, the penalty of death for offences was considered so lightly of, that the House came to a resolution, That no Bill imposing that penalty should be introduced without a previous committee. For that resolution the public were indebted to sir William Meredith, who, in 1772, being on an enclosure committee, accidentally heard some of the interested parties complain that several of the peasants were refractory and troublesome, and that the only way to get rid of them would be by hanging a few. The hon. baronet was so
839Mr. Whitbread
840 contended, that when the law was openly violated, it was the duty of the legislature to enact severer laws. If the parent were not obeyed, while mild and indulgent, who would maintain that he ought not to change his countenance, and express his indignation? The law proposed was a law not merely to prevent the breaking of frames, but to protect whatever was most dear to us in life. When gentlemen talked of sporting with the lives of others, he would ask, who sported with the lives of the people? Who neglected the general safety? and on whom must fall the awful responsibility, if a remedy were not promptly applied to those alarming evils which were under their consideration? If the law were openly defied, and force continued to be opposed to force, while they were speaking there, thousands of lives might be swept away, and thousands might fall the victims of a too refined sensibility, and mistaken and puling feeling of humanity. He denied that there were more crimes visited with capital punishment in our code of laws than in any other; and adverting to what had fallen from an hon. gentleman, who had contended that capital punishment should only be inflicted where it was authorised by the Scripture, which it was said only justified it in one instance, where it is written—"Whosoever sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed," he was surprised how any man could read Leviticus and Deuteronomy, and be of such an opinion. It would be found, in looking into those books, that they contained more capital punishments than any modern code of laws, and Europe had been convinced that it would be improper to adopt a code so sanguinary. In the Scrip-
840Mr. Frankland
 disclaimed all idea of imputing to the hon. and learned gentleman any wish to under-rate the importance of the transactions alluded to; but complained that he had manifested some inconsistency in stating, at the same time, that the Bill would be a dead letter, and would also cause too great a sacrifice of lives.Mr. Bathurst
 in explanation said, that the right hon. member who spoke last had misrepresented—he would not say had misstated—his positions. His observation had been, that as far as regarded the case of conspiracy, the act would be a dead letter, though this was the case where it was intended to apply; while it would operate severely against individuals, a case not within the meaning of the Bill.Sir S. Romilly
 said, that he should wish the time to be enlarged, except the subject was one which frequently had come before the legislative body. Statutes already existed on the woollen, the silk, and cotton manufactures, and none on this branch of craft. It was also important that it should not go out to the public, that the House was not clear and decisive in its intentions on this subject.Mr. Frankland
845l said, that the hon. member could not be more anxious than he and his colleagues of the Board of Trade were, that the general question of Licences should be discussed in some intelligible and tangible shape as soon as possible, and he trusted the hon. gentleman who bad given a notice on the subject, would bring it forward without delay. With regard to the first paper moved for, the Memorial from Heligoland, he thought the publication of it would be attended with very serious inconvenience, and notwithstanding what had been said, he felt it to be his indispensible duty to resist it. Whether it were true or not, that no trade had been carried on there for the last eighteen months, he did not know, but the production of this document would expose to the enemy the means which had been formerly resorted to, and might prevent any intercourse between that island and the continent in future. As to the other documents moved for, he had not the slightest objection to the whole world being made acquainted with their contents. He, however, wished to say a few words in explanation of what was an irregularity regarding them. It was undoubtedly correct, that at the time these two licences for the introduction of spirits from Holland were made out, the general importation was prohibited by the Board of Trade, and they wholly originated in a mistake of the clerk, who, in making out about nine or ten thousand licences, had improperly inserted the words which allowed the admission of spirits, but the persons who obtained them had derived no advantage from this inadvertence. One of the cargoes, as had been stated, had since been seized and forfeited, as it appeared that fraud had been practised, the ship not having in reality come from the port for which the licence was prepared. In the other case (for only two existed), the person on whose account the spirits were imported had been compelled not to enter them for exportation, and was not allowed to dispose of them for home consumption, by which he had sustained a loss of 4,000845lMr. Rose
846 did not believe that any mal-practices could be charged against any of the clerks of the Board of Trade, but the whole system of licensing was most injurious to the trade of the country. In order to substantiate this assertion, papers might, indeed, be useful, but they were not at all necessary, since the general facts were known to all, and the consequences felt by all. The forgery, perjury, and bribery on which our commerce now depended were admitted by nearly every person interested in commercial transactions, and the confiscation of our shipping provided with licences in various situations, to an enormous amount, had been
846Mr. Marryatt
847 remarked that the fact, which had been just stated to be of such importance, must occur in every case where it was thought necessary to carry on trade with a nation with whom we were at war, and, therefore, whether it were more or less connected with the Orders in Council, it was clear that such an advantage as that noticed, might, at any time, under such circumstances, be derived. It was not insinuated that the Board of Trade in a single instance had been actuated by an improper motive to favour particular individuals, and in this instance the licences in question were less open to any animadversion upon such a striking fact than they would have been at any other period. With respect to the question before the House, it would be remarked, that the hon. gentleman who introduced it brought it forward as if the whole trade of the country was, and could only be, conducted by means of licences. From what he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) knew of the proceedings of the Board of Trade from daily communications, he could assert, that there was hot a single instance of a licence being granted for a trade which could be carried on
847The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that as the clause stood, it would appear, that a person tossing an old woman's lace cushion into the fire would constitute a capital offence. He asked whether it was to be so understood?Mr. C. W. Wynn
 did not think that such an act as that instanced by his hon. and learned friend could be prosecuted to conviction, because the bench and the jury would both be of opinion that the malicious intent to destroy that trade would not have been sufficiently made out.The Attorney General
 said, that if the case supposed by his hon. and learned friend did not come within the meaning of the act, he conceived that it might still operate in a manner in which it was not intended to act. If an individual in a passion should damage or injure one of his master's tools used in that trade, as the clause at present stood, such conduct would come within the meaning of the act. It might be that in such a case the law would not be executed, but was it for parliament to make laws so cruel in their operations, that persons convicted on them were suffered to escape on that account? He would submit it to the right hon. gentleman, whether it might not be better to alter it, by inserting the words "any three or more combining maliciously to break, &c."Sir S. Romilly
 thought, if the proposition of his bon. and learned friend were adopted, the mischief would not be put a stop to by this act, as the rioters at Nottingham had acted throughout with so much system and contrivance, that he had no doubt but if that amendment were made, they would evade the law, by sending into the different cottages one man only to destroy the frames. However they might regret that to which the letter of the law might by possibility lead, he thought they ought to proceed on the established principle of comprehending to a certainty, that which the law was intended to meet, at the risk of including what it was not designed to include.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the amendment.Mr. Abercromby
 objected to the generality of the word "damaged," which he thought might be given up, as the Bill would be completely efficient without it.Mr. J. Smith
 supported the clause.Mr. Leigh Keck
 apprehended that the object of the rioters was to prevent the work from going forward, and therefore maintained it was of the utmost consequence to check them. No inconvenience could follow from leaving a discretion to the judges.The Attorney-General
 declined pressing the amendment.Sir S. Romilly
 proposed a clause for the purpose of allowing the prisoners who should be tried under this act, the benefit of counsel. It was agreed upon all hands that the crime was great; by some it was represented as approaching to high treason, a circumstance which must expose those who were accused of it to the indignation of the community; but it occurred to him, that for that very reason the person to be tried should be afforded the privilege intended by his clause. All he asked was, that they should be placed on the same footing with those charged with misdemeanors. He never could find upon what principle persons tried for their lives were refused this benefit. It was stated by some, that the judge was counsel for the prisoner; but the judge was bound to state what made against him as well as what made for him; and therefore in that sense could not be said to be his counsel. In the case of Patch, it was stated by Mr. Serjeant Best, that the principle upon which counsel was refused was, that the case should be so clear against the prisoner as not to render counsel necessary. A third principle stated, was, that it would occasion the delay of causes. But neither of them appeared to him to establish the necessity of such refusal in all cases: he therefore should propose the clause as he had already stated.Mr. Lockhart
 seconded the motion.Mr. C. W. Wynn
853sui generis said his hon. and learned friend had not stated any thing to shew that this case differed from ordinary cases of felony. With respect to high treason, it was an offence 853sui generisMr. Secretary Ryder
 proposed an amendment, for the purpose of altering the preamble of the bill, so as to shew that it was framed to meet a particular occasion; which, after some desultory conversation, was agreed to. The report was then brought up, and ordered to be taken into further consideration tomorrow.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 moved that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, upon the Bill for the more effectual preservation of the Peace within the county of Nottingham, and the town and county of the town of Nottingham.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 suggested the propriety of extending the provisions of the Bill to any other county where similar disturbances existed, or were likely to exist.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 wished that they might be extended to the county of Leicester.Mr. Leigh Keck
 observed, that the Bill had been suggested by, and drawn in the county of Nottingham, and then sent tip to him. After it had been revised by the law officers of the crown, he had sent it down again to the county of Nottingham, in order that he might be assured, before he submitted it to the House, that it had received the concurrence of the magistracy of that county. If any hon. member would declare that the magistrates of the county of Leicester, or of any other county, were desirous to have the provisions of the bill extended to them, he should have no objection to move an instruction to the committee to that effect; but it ought not to be forgotten that those provisions imposed a heavy mental and bodily duty on those who were to execute them.Mr. Secretary Ryder
, although certainly he was not distinctly authorised on the subject, had yet no hesitation in declaring, en the part of the magistrates of Leicestershire, that they were ready to execute the provisions of the act; and he was sore that they would do it ample justice.Mr. Leigh Keck
854 pressed the necessity
854Sir O. Moseley
, after what he had heard, felt no reluctance whatever in moving that it be an instruction to the committee that they be empowered to extend the provisions of the bill to any other county in Great Britain.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 could (not see the impropriety that would attend the extention of the bill to all the counties in Great Britain, in which the magistracy might deem it expedient to put the provisions of it into execution.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 observed, that the suggestion of the hon. and learned gentleman who had last spoken, was one which, in his opinion, might be attended to with advantage.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied that whatever might be ultimately considered as expedient, in the first instance he conceived that the measure ought to be only temporary. It might be wise to extend the provisions of the bill to North Britain, but in that case it would be necessary to submit them to legal opinions in that country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
855 remarked, that he had been induced, in the first instance, not to propose the extension of the provisions to all the counties of Great Britain, from the consideration that the pro-
855Mr. Secretary Ryder
ll felt no inclination to accede to the last request of the right hon. gentleman, since he could foresee no possible inconvenience which would result from the production of the Memorial from Heligoland, seeing that the trade of that island was completely terminated. It would be admitted that it was couched in very strong terms of remonstrance, and be thought that the right hon. gentleman would much more unequivocally shew his disposition to meet the pending inquiry, if he allowed papers to be produced which were necessary to its due consideration. With regard to his second motion, it was certainly true that the Board of Trade, when they discovered that an irregularity (not to give it a term more severe) had been committed by their servant, did every thing in their power to injure the individuals who had, for any thing that appeared, innocently obtained the licences, but this was by no means pursuing the course that should have been followed. The right hon. gentleman had asserted, that in the last instance the owner of the cargo had sustained a loss of 4,000llMr. A. Baring
843, in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for several papers on the subject of the trade carried on by means of Licences, preparatory to the important discussion on the subject of the Orders in Council, which was soon to be brought before the House. He observed, that whatever opinions might be entertained by the cabinet, or by the Board of Trade, he would venture to assert that there was no member of the House at all connected with commercial affairs, who would defend the licensed trade as it was now, and as it had been for some time carried on. When the immense increase of influence it afforded to the crown, and the state of subserviency to the minister to which it reduced the mercantile interests of the country, were taken into
843Mr. A. Baring
 said the debates on this subject had disclosed two important facts; in the first place it appeared that the late disturbances were caused by the decay of our trade: in the next, that a large number of the inhabitants of one part of the county had been almost in a state of insurrection. Far from thinking that there was any merit in the conduct of his Majesty's ministers, to him it appeared that great demerit was there to be seen. He thought the subject was not treated by the honourable House as so grave a subject ought to be treated. It ought to be most carefully looked into, as ministers had brought the country into a situation, to extricate it from which all the wisdom of parliament was required. He was averse to increasing the number of capital punishments. Were the laws of Draco the best the world had ever seen, because they were written in blood? Experience had proved the reverse to be the fact.General Tarleton
 agreed with the right hon. gentleman that the measure ought to be temporary. But was it meant to confine the operation of the bill to such outrages only as those in which the necessity for it originated, or to extend it to other outrages? If there was any intention of extending the provisions of the bill to the counties of North Britain, such a measure would require deliberation. In his opinion a separate bill would be necessary.Mr. Horner
 asked whether it was intended that the measure should be permanent or temporary; and whether there was any intention of extending the provisions of the bill to the counties of North Britain.Mr. Horner
lad libitum felt that it was impossible to consider separately the important subjects of the Orders in Council and the system of licensing, and would therefore take the opportunity of fixing that day fortnight, for his motion on these two questions. He begged the House in the mean time to bear in its recollection one fact which had been disclosed in the course of the present discussion, namely, that the crown, by means of this traffic in licences, arising out of and connected with its traffic in Orders in Council and commercial prohibitions, was possessed of the power of employing for the augmentation of its influence lad libitumMr. Brougham
, notwithstanding what had fallen from the last speaker, was still of opinion, that ministers had mean which were not used promptly or beneficially in quelling the riots. As to the argument deduced from the terror expected to be produced by the punishment of death, he had one curious fact to state to the House, by which they might judge what effect it would have. In the county of Cumberland, it was made a capital offence to steal lead, and what was the consequence? Why, that no conviction ever took place under that law, because witnesses were shocked at the disproportion between the crime and the punishment, and would not come forward. He was sorry to hear hon. gentlemen say, that no hope ought to be held out to the country of escape from the pressure under which it at present laboured. He believed that there existed other causes of these disturbances, besides the measures of the emperor of France; and those were the measures of his Majesty's ministers. He saw in their mistaken policy grounds enough for the decay of trade; and he was of opinion, that there were measures of moderation and wisdom, by the adoption of which the country might escape from its present embarrassments. Measures of moderation and wisdom were not, however, to be expected from his Majesty's present ministers. He attributed the decay of trade, and the consequent ruin of the country, to the mistaken policy of ministers. The sufferings of the people were great. They were great in many parts of the county with which he was personally acquainted; but their forbearance was also great. He should vote against the bill, because he did not think it would effect what it pretended to.Mr. Curwen
852 supported the clause as it stood, and was of opinion that the amendment
852Mr. Simeon
 defended ministers against the aspersions of the two last speakers. He was afraid that there was something of the spirit of party in the opposition made to the Bill. He did not profess to be the defender of ministers, except as far as truth and justice bound him; but if a charge should be brought against them on the head of supineness, in not using the means which they possessed 10 put down the disturbances, he was ready on that score to meet any hon. gentleman opposite. As to the crying, puling maxims so much insisted upon, and the noise made about humanity, and he knew not what, he asked, were not the sufferers by these outrages sufficient objects for that humanity? He wished not to be considered as agreeing by any means to the new doctrines on criminal law, which tended to cast reproach on the wisdom or humanity of our ancestors. The law proposed, appeared to him to be dictated by humanity; it was not like the laws of Draco to be written in blood. The dread of capital punishment might prevent the repetition of the offence, and if (as had been said would be the case,) no convictions should take place on it, no blood would be shed in. consequence of it. The conduct of ministers he thought had been perfectly correct, as they had done all in their power to put a stop to the evil by the means of the common law of the country.Mr. Ellison
 was persuaded that his hon. friend was completely justified in the declaration which he bad just made. The magistrates of Leicestershire were never disposed to shrink from their duty.Mr. Babington
 begged leave to adopt the sentiments of the hon. gentleman who spoke first (Mr. Lamb.) He particularly selected that hon. gentleman's speech, not only for its eloquence, but because all the other speakers for the Bill were opposers of the measures of an hon. and learned gentleman (sir S. Romilly) relative to the Criminal Laws, which measures Mr. C. was inclined to favour. But he thought the present an atrocious crime, worthy of the very highest punishment, and should therefore vote for the Bill.Mr. Courtenay
 rose, and said, he was anxious to state the grounds on which he should give the Bill his support. Those who opposed the measure insisted chiefly on the necessity which they conceived existed for going into a previous enquiry. If that enquiry should tend to ascertain the causes of the violation of the laws, it would certainly be beneficial; but he was against it because it would produce delay. The great cause of the disturbances he considered to be the decay of trade. The measures of the emperor of France were evidently their main causes; and it was nothing less than wilfully deluding the country, to hold out a hope that greater commercial embarrassments, greater severity of distress, than the country had hitherto felt, were not yet to be endured. As to the disputes between the masters and the workmen, he did not think it right to enquire into them, as causes of the riots;—such enquiry only tended to inflame the minds of the working-men, who generally concluded that they had rights which were infringed upon by the masters: and that they were justifiable in retaliating violence on thorn for the infringement of those supposed rights. The terror of death, he conceived, though it would have little effect on men habituated to guilt, would operate powerfully on the general mind. The atrocity of the offence against which the present Bill was intended, was as deep as any offence against property could be; and such, in his opinion, as called for the severest punishment. Another reason for having recourse to the punishment of death was, the difficulty of detection. When crimes became difficult of detection, the necessary and only resource was severity of punishment. As to the objections against the Bill, that it would involve persons who were within the letter, and not the spirit of it, there was little danger, he imagined, to be apprehended from any unfortunate result of that kind arising from it.Mr. Lamb
849 contended, that the Bill was not directed against the real danger, which was combination; it only looked to individual offenders. He did not think that ministers had used either the ordinary civil means, or the extraordinary military means which they possessed, to active and proper advantage. The poor deluded people who were the objects of this Bill were greatly to be pitied. They were in want of bread; and any measure of the legislature would not, he was afraid, be
849Sir T. Turton
 thought that if the object of the Bill was merely to increase the punishment, the former act ought to be fallowed up to the letter in every thing else.Mr. Bathurst
 moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Bill for the more exemplary punishment of persons destroying or injuring any Stocking or Lace Frames, or other machifes or engines used in the Frame-work knitted manufactory, or any articles or goods in such Frames or Machines.Mr. Secretary Ryder
862861860 said, that he would be the last man in that House to defend or justify the outrages against which this Bill had been provided; but it was a ma-
862861860Mr. Hutchinson
864.—The riots of the White Boys were adduced as analogous to those of the Frame Breakers. We were told that the same vigour which had checked the one would now be necessary to put down the other. I answer, first, that admit the analogy, because both species of outrages originated in iniquitous grievances and hardships; and, secondly, that as the White Boys were put down by redress of their grievances, and not by the rigour of law, that according to the same analogy, you are bound to inquire into the grievances of the Frame Breakers, and to remedy them without delay, as the most effectual way of putting a stop to these outrages. I know not, Sir, whether you can now perceive the applicability of my argument; or whether you are still at a loss to discover whether, in urging it, I am within the limits of order. I repeat, then, that the vigour of the law failed in putting down the White Boys—that it will fail in putting down the Frame Breakers. But is it meant that the one should be the pure model of the other? Would you introduce the pitch cap, and the other memorable insignia of torture, so well known in Ireland, though not understood here? Would you introduce them into England? The White Boy code was fit only for the meridian of Barbary, as it had, indeed, been well described by a most intelligent writer on the state of Ireland. But look at this subject as you will, you are forced to the consideration of the cause—are any portion of the people of England given to wanton riots? was this the national character? was it the character of the manufacturing part of the country? were they not proverbially a grave, plodding, quiet, discreet, sedate, business-involved class of men? What but intolerable distress could drive such a class to lawless outrage; and if the distress was too great to be borne, the legislature was bound to interpose some remedy, and not hang men because they could not suffer beyond human nature. I have now stated my objections to this measure, and condole with the new minister that such should be the first act of this new æra of the flourishing state of the empire. The proofs of such national prosperity were unfortunately but too
864Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that he did not recommend the mode of punishment adopted in Ireland against insurgents here, but gene-rally the necessity of having recourse to a capital enactment.Mr. Herbert
l agreed that the alteration alluded to by the hon. gentleman was a deviation from the original plan of the Local Militia, in as far as it was to that extent a deviation from the system of ballot, which was the corner stone on which the Local Militia system was built. The acceptance of the voluntary service of such corps as chose to offer themselves, a thing which was permitted under the original Bill, was also, so far, a deviation from that system. He was of opinion, however, that the alteration now proposed was an improvement, for several reasons: first, it would produce a much more efficient force; again, relieve the country from a great inconvenience and burden, as it would prevent the necessity of calling persons away from their avocations in husbandry, &c. during the harvest; and, in an economical point of view, it would cause a great saving to an amount of not less than 100,000lMr. Secretary Ryder
 did not conceive it necessary to repeat over and over again, the reasons which urged him to the adoption of this measure. If he had, however, done so, he should only be following the example of his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down. He recommended this Bill to the legislature, not in the certainty, but in the hope of putting down the disturbances in Nottinghamshire, and to shew the country that every legislative means were used, before recourse should be taken to measures of greater severity. He was quite confident that the suffrage of the people would be with this Bill.Mr. Secretary Ryder
. I hardly know how to answer that question. If the hon. gentleman is in order, I am at a loss to discover how he is so (hear, hear!)The Speaker
l said, he thought that the inconsistency of conduct in the House on the subject of ballot, was a matter of very serious regret. The ballot was now the only source resorted to for supplying the military force of the country, whereas it had been generally declared in that House, within these few years, to be a system which was wholly unfit to be persevered in. Such an inconsistency as this, he was afraid, would seem to justify the suspicion, that the members of that House were not sufficiently alive to the interests of that part of the community, who were more peculiarly exposed to the burden of ballot. There was another objection, which struck him with peculiar force on perusing the present Bill. Not only were persons belonging to the Local Militia, who were guilty of offences, liable to the usual punishments inflicted in such cases, but they were to be liable to the punishment of being continued in the Local Militia beyond the stipulated period of their service; not only so, but even to be sent into the line, and there to be kept, for an unlimited period of service. The noble lord apprehended, if this clause was to be allowed to continue in the Bill, it would be far from palatable with the public. Imprisonment too, his lordship observed, was to be inflicted by this Bill, not as a punishment, but before trial for any supposed offence. This was such a mixture of military law as he could not think of countenancing in such a Bill as the present. There was also a large fine of 15lLord A. Hamilton
 explained by stating, that he had not said that the system of ballot ought to be laid aside altogether, but that he regretted the inconsistency of the House on this subject.Lord A. Hamilton
865 said:—I rise, Sir, to give my decided support to this measure, the necessity of which I both acknowledge and lament. Though for the most part disposed to concur, on the subject of capital punishments, with an hon. and learn" ed gentleman opposite (sir S. Romilly,) whose humane and enlightened exertions for mitigating the rigour of the Penal Code, entitle him to the gratitude of his country, yet on the other hand, I contend, that cases may occur (of which I conceive the present to be an instance) in which lenity to the aggressors, is cruelty to the injured. The first clause of this Bill, by which the perpetration of these outrages is rendered a capital offence, may not, it is true, facilitate the detection of the past, but will (I trust) be conducive to the prevention of similar enormities in future—whilst the second clause, which enforces the necessity of giving early information when an outrage has been committed, will powerfully second the exertions of the magistrates to bring the offenders to justice. When the punishment of death has long subsisted against a particular crime, it may perhaps be viewed with less terror by offenders, as the nature of the crime and that of the penalty attached to it are equally familiar to their minds; but when it is for the first time enacted against an offence, to which a slighter punishment was attached before, it cannot, I think, fail to deter many persons from engaging at all in the crime, and recall many others
865Mr. Sinclair
863.—Mr. Speaker, I beg leave
863Mr. Cripps
 paid a compliment to the framer of the present Bill, which was complete and intelligible in all its parts, and was not, like too many Bills, framed, as it were, with no other object than to bewilder and perplex.Mr. N. Calvert
868 agreed in thinking that there were many objectionable clauses in the present Bill, but he did not agree in all the objections stated by his noble friend. What he particularly objected to was an alteration in the present system of the Local Militia. The noble lord who
868Mr. Whitbread
 could not refrain, in this last stage of the Bill, from repeating his objections to it, being satisfied that it was a measure calculated to mislead the public, and at the same time to operate as no check upon the outrages sought to be corrected. He could not forbear expressing his astonishment that such acts as had lately been carried on for a series of months with impunity bad not called out the inquisitorial power of that House, but that, instead of such an inquiry, an act should be introduced, which was calculated for nothing but to mislead the public. If such acts as those sought to be provided against, could be carried on without detection, what did the present Bill do to deter from the commission of them? Increasing the degree of punishment only tended to add to the motives which now prevailed in favour of concealment, and to increase the reluctance to give testimony. Did they not, however, by the present Bill, furnish motives even for the commission of another crime of a still deeper dye? Did they not furnish persons already so well disciplined in the arts of concealment with a fresh motive, if detection could not otherwise be secured, to cut off the evidence against them? If in any one instance such an occurrence as this were to take place, must the House not feel that they had aggravated, instead of curing the evil?Sir A. Piggott
 assured the hon. gentleman, that he was quite misinformed with respect to the situation of the shipwrights in his Majesty's dock-yards: they complained without reason, and government could not help men who chose to be perverse. He hoped, however, that that good sense which was the characteristic of Englishmen, would teach those people to be contented under the circumstances of their station in life. What reason had they more than any other of his Majesty's subjects to be exempted from the Income-tax?Mr. Yorke
 would not have arisen, but for the observations of the hon. baronet; at the same time he was aware that those observations had been most ably and successfully answered by the right hon. gentleman. The hon. baronet had stated the comparative merits of Suchet and of the earl of Wellington; that comparison was not to be endured. What had been the conduct of Suchet? At Tarragona there were between 7 and 800 men, women and children wantonly put to the sword by his orders. (Hear, hear!) What had been the conduct of the earl of Wellington in the late glorious service? Not a single life was lost in the city, with the exception of those on the ramparts. He had not dragged forth the defenceless to be inhumanly butchered and murdered. He had spared their lives after the conquest, and 1,700 prisoners were marched out of the place. The comparison of the merits of the two commanders was so strikingly erroneous, that he could not avoid the expression of his feeling, in common with other gentlemen so diametrically opposite to those of the hon. baronet, and to give his testimony in favour of the noble earl. He thought that he should ill deserve the support of his constituents in Sussex, if he went down among them without having marked the sense which he entertained of principles such as had just been avowed by the honourable baronet.Sir C. Burrell
884 observed, that after the discussion
884The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 regretted his absence during the discussion on the late vote, which precluded him from adding his tribute of applause to the character of the earl of Wellington—an applause which, with the exception of the hon. baronet, and, perhaps, of a very few persons out of doors, would be found general. The character of the lamented major-general Robert Craufurd rested on his own merits, and was but to be appreciated by the testimonies of the gallant army in which he bore command; that army, on his return from abroad, had recorded his merits, by an involuntary burst of applause, when he first appeared on parade. The noble lord could not avoid partaking of the feelings which his brother officers evinced when recollecting his merits; his character had been observed by another officer nearly allied to the noble lord. After he had received his death wound, to the moment of his death, he was at the foot of that breach which had been effected by his determined gallantry: the testimony and admiration of his conduct which the illustrious army had shewn would serve as a remembrance of his departed worth.Lord Castlereagh
dsll886slllll rose to lay before the committee the Estimates for the service of the Navy during the present year. The principal feature of difference, he observed, would be found in a reduction of about 500,000dsll886slllllMr. Yorke
871l870 addressed the Chairman to the following effect; Mr. Lushington; I cannot think that it will be necessary for me to trouble the committee with many observations in order to induce them to give their most cordial consent to the Resolution which I shall have the honour to propose, in conformity to the gracious Message of his royal highness the Prince Regent. It is, indeed, impossible that the House of Commons should fail to recollect, or that the nation at large should fail duly to appreciate the various great and distinguished services which have marked the brilliant career of my lord Wellington in the course of the late campaigns in Spain and Portugal. Although differences of opinion may exist with respect to the expediency and policy of the efforts which Great Britain has been, and is now making in the peninsula, although different views may be entertained of the wisdom of their efforts, I am persuaded Sir, that those differences of opinion, and those different views, will form no ground of dissent from the present motion. The question before us is, whether the officer selected in the first instance by his Majesty, and subsequently confirmed by his royal highness the Prince Regent, to direct the military operations in the peninsula, has, or has not conducted himself with such distinguished zeal, and such consummate professional ability, as while it does infinite honour to himself, does infinite honour to the country, whose armies he was appointed to command? Sir, the impression of the House on this subject is evident; and, under such an impression, I feel that it would be a gratuitous trespass on their time, to enter into any detail of those various achievements of the gallant earl, which have on former occasions received the distinct and repeated approbation of parliament. The circumstances under which his royal highness the Prince Regent has, for the last twelve months, exercised the royal authority, have prevented him at an earlier period from adequately marking the high sense which he entertained of the merits of that distinguished
871l870The Chancellor of the Exchequer
876l875874 said, that although he was the last man who would oppose any proper remuneration to those from whose exertions the country had derived benefit, yet he could not agree to the motion on the grounds upon which it was attempted to be supported. He allowed that he, as well as the House at large, was a very incompetent judge of the merits of a military commander, more especially in the comparative ignorance of the facts under which he necessarily laboured; but from all he did know from the army list, and from the estimates on the table, it appeared to him that lord Wellington had under his command a very large force. Now he had always understood that the merit of a military commander consisted in the being able to accomplish a great object with inadequate means. In his opinion, it was impossible to conceive less done with such ample means than that which lord Wellington had achieved. [Laughter, and cries of hear, hear!] He had no wish to detract from the well-earned reputation
876l875874Sir F. Burdett
881l880lllIll879878877 declared, that had he anticipated any possible difference of opinion on the motion before the committee, it would have been on the amount of the grant, which, in compliance with the gracious message of the Prince Regent, it
881l880lllIll879878877Mr. Canning
882"Mark the humility of Shepherd Norval!" in explanation, complained that the right hon. gentleman had chosen entirely to misrepresent him. The right hon. gentleman first disclaimed all knowledge of military tactics, but immediately afterwards,
882"Mark the humility of Shepherd Norval!"Sir F. Burdett,
 replied, that the hon. baronet had mistaken the nature of his reasoning on the subject of the pecuniary grants which it was in the power of the crown to bestow. The hon. baronet had been in the habit of calling such grants disgraceful to the receiver; and yet had proposed that the present annuity to lord Wellington should come from revenue immediately at the disposal of the crown; and when he used the term "disgraceful," as applicable to them, it was only to shew that the hon. baronet was prepared to reward lord Wellington from a source which he, the hon. baronet, thought disgraceful. On the subject of sinecures, he had delivered his opinion on a former occasion, and would now state it to be simply this; that the crown should have at its disposal the means of rewarding merit, but that it would be better if the funds for that purpose were not of the nature of sinecure offices, on which it was natural for the country to throw considerable obloquy. The hon. baronet complained, that he had been misrepresented as the blazoner of Suchet; and that he did not mean to contrast that general with lord Wellington. In reply to this, he would say that he had carefully avoided misrepresentation. "Comparisons were odious," but since the hon. baronet had disclaimed the idea of contrasting the British with the French commander, he would content himself with observing, that though such an effect was doubtlessly not meant, yet certainly what had fallen from the hon. baronet tended, as much as anything that ever fell from the hon. baronet could tend to do any thing, to lower lord Wellington in public estimation. He had seen several military men of high character, who had witnessed the capture of Ciudad Rodrigo, and who concurred in describing the exploit in the most glowing language, and in considering it as the most brilliant achievement of the war.Mr. Canning
 said, the copper which the hon. gentleman had seen, was copper taken off the bottoms of ships which had been sheathed with contract copper.Mr. Yorke
 replied, that the report on that ship Would, he believed, convince the House that the Tremendous was not rotten; the only doubt was as to her decks. There was, he could assure the hon. admiral, only one more ship to be built on that principle.Mr. Yorke
 believed the hon. gentleman to be misinformed with respect to the state of The French navy. The hon. gentleman had referred, in proof of this, to the French public accounts. He was himself sufficiently acquainted with the French accounts, to know that it was extremely difficult to obtain from them a satisfactory idea of the amount of any branch of public expenditure. But he could tell the hon. gentleman, that the French had been lately labouring inconceivably to augment their navy; that every month added considerably to it; that at present there were not fewer than twenty-five sail of the line in the Scheldt, and thirty-five ships of the line in the different ports of Holland. At Toulon, Venice, and Genoa they were also building ships to a considerable extent; and he believed their naval force was, upon the whole, little short in the Mediterranean of what it was in the North Sea. If the French were exerting themselves to such an extent, surely we ought to be sufficiently prepared to meet them at all points; if once the naval force was to be lowered, and an exigency arose, it would be difficult to increase it. We ought to be fully pre pared to meet them in all parts of the world. An inferior navy would be a great detriment to this country.Mr. Yorke
893892 deprecated the species of warfare recommended by the noble lord, which he thought would not be productive of the effects he expected. He then adverted to the statement made by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Yorke)
893892Mr. Hutchinson
l said, that the saving had occurred on the wear and tear, and the state of the navy debt proved the fact, as it was 900,000lMr. Yorke
 replied, that it proceeded from the latter, and the amount would be proved by the decrease of the navy debt. It would be remembered that the House, last year, made a very liberal vote for the wear and tear estimates. On experience the whole was found not to be necessary, and it was applied in a different direction.Mr. Yorke
899ll898llllllllllllllllllll897llllll896lllll895llll894, in rising to submit to the House those details which it was his duty to lay before them, wished to state them as succinctly as possible, reserving to himself the right of speaking on any subject which might appear to require a more ample explanation than he might give in the first instance. The expences might be divided into two heads: 1st, those which, like regimental charges, grew on fixed establishments; 2nd, those which, like recruiting charges, were contingent. In the former, every care had been taken to compress them within as narrow a compass as possible; in the latter, the actual expenditure of the last year had been taken as the basis of the estimate for the present.—He would first take the estimate of the Land Forces, which of course was divided into many smaller heads. In this estimate, a considerable increase of
899ll898llllllllllllllllllll897llllll896lllll895llll894Lord Palmerston
900l complimented the noble lord on the perspicuous statement be had made, and expressed his satisfaction at the success which had attended the recruiting for the line. He lamented, at the same time, the frequent change of system in some departments, for instance the cavalry, by which the country was put to great expence.—He then adverted to the Corps de Depot, not noticed by the noble lord, and inquired why it was not noticed? He feared that the college at Sandhurst would exceed the estimate: its object was good, but he hoped that economy would be practised. There was one part of the Estimates to which he had not only a strong objection, but would take the sense of the Committee upon it, or if he did not press it to night, he should certainly when the report was brought up. He alluded to the item in the 32d page of the Estimates, of a sum of 2,790900lMr. Bankes
902901 rose and spoke as follows:—Sir, I must intreat the indulgence of the House for a few moments, on a subject which of late has so frequently been brought before its consideration. I mean, Sir, the office of Receiver and Paymaster to the Widows' Pensions. At the time, Sir, when the Prince Regent was graciously pleased to confer upon me this office, his Royal Highness, as has been already stated by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, certainly gave it to me subject to the will and pleasure of this House. On such conditions, Sir, most certainly I accepted it, and to that will and pleasure I now most implicitly bow. Sir, I must beg to observe, that this goodness on the part of his Royal Highness, was entirely spontaneous; for I never had the presumption to suppose that any humble services I could give to
902901Colonel M'Mahon
ll thought it a monstrous and intolerable proposition to grant 2,790llMr. Bennet
903 observed, that the filling up of the office had not been done from ignorance of the Report of the Commissioners alluded to: that was not the ground upon which the transaction was to be defended. The appointment, in fact, of the hon. colonel, did not form the slightest impediment to parliament exercising its rights, just the same as if the appointment had not taken place. When the grant of it was made to colonel
903The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 merely wished to ask the right hon. gentleman, whether he thought the hon. colonel, for whom he sincerely professed a very high esteem, really executed that description of high and effective office which was meant by the Resolutions alluded to?Mr. Whitbread
904 denied that he had made any such statement; and he denied that it was the intention of parliament to deprive the crown of any means of reward for such services as might be deemed worthy of reward; nor could he
904The Chancellor of the Exchequer
905 agreed with gentlemen in thinking that the Prince Regent ought to have the means of rewarding old and faithful servants; but the question was, whether or not the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not, under all the circumstances of the case, grossly misconducted himself in advising the grant of this sinecure in the teeth of a Resolution of that House. At the time that the House came to that Resolution, he was anxious that there should be some specific understanding between the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bankes) and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to what was to be done after the passing of that resolution until the meeting of parliament; for sure he was that otherwise the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, at the first opportunity, set their resolutions at defiance: indeed, the right hon. gentleman had told them, that he did not think them operative upon him, because, truly, he himself had always opposed them; but if the right hon. gent. had been at all anxious to preserve any show of decency in the mode of this grant, why could he not have suspended the office till the meeting of parliament? But it seemed that in granting the office, he had told the gallant colonel, that he was to receive it subject to the will of parliament—a mighty condescension truly! as if the right of parliament to quash any such grant depended upon this saving condition made by the right hon. gentleman. But had he done his duty to his royal master, by thus holding him up as a public spectacle, and exposing him in one of the most prominent acts of a new reign to so much clamour and ill humour? As for the hon. colonel, no blame attached to him. He was offered a good place with nothing to do, and he took it, but certainly the Chancellor of the Exchequer had placed him in a most awkward situation. Was there no other way of rewarding the services of the gallant colonel than by flying in the face of a resolution of that House, and exposing the Prince Regent to all the opprobrium of such a grant, dragging him as it were through the dirt for the last six months, by making him so prominent in granting a sinecure in the purest and most disgusting sense of the word—and after all, what must be the consequence?—the hon. colonel could not keep it. He could not possibly rise on Tuesday morning in possession of it. He lamented the circum-
905Mr. Tierney
 said, be would not grant any sinecure or reversionary places which did not come under the authority of parliament. It was impossible for him to characterize the ill-humour of the expressions made use of on the subject by the other side of the House. He never felt that any person was responsible for the advice given on this subject to the Prince Regent, but himself. He thought it was a fair exercise of his duty, as parliament had not enacted that sinecures should be done away with. The Resolution of the House of Commons was nothing, until it was recognized by parliament; and it never had had its sanction. He thought sinecure places better than the provision that was proposed in the place of them. The situation could not be granted to the hon. colonel for life, while the Prince Regent was under restrictions, and so he informed him; but that he was to hold it until parliament met. He thought the appointment ought not to be interfered with until sinecures were abolished altogether. A mistaken statement had gone out to the public, that the poundage came out of the Widows' Pensions. It was not the case: for the salary was calculated from the amount paid to the widows, and government liquidated the debt: not one shilling was taken from the original pensions. (Hear, hear!)The Chancellor of the Exchequer
906 said, it was a most unfortunate appointment, and it would be a length of time before the new reign would recover it: esteeming as he did the administration of his right hon. friend, and wishing him full success in his new career, he must yet vote against the present question. The present was not a question of clamour and ill-humour: every impartial man out of the House had been hurt at the little attention paid by his right hon. friend to the recommendation of the House of Commons in the appointment alluded to. It had been most unfortunate advice; it had excited in the nation unfavourable sentiments and ill omens of the new reign. He could not, without injury to himself, and still more without injury to the character of the House, suppress these reflection, especially when he reflected on what
906Mr. Johnstone
 observed that he could not let the subject pass without expressing his opinion, that the ordinary recruiting was not equal to one half of the waste of the army; there were also a number of desertions, which were caused by the morals of the lower orders of the people being corrupted. The Prince Regent had acted most laudably towards a meritorious servant, but he thought he had been unwisely advised.Mr. Elliot
 observed, that there was sometimes too little attention paid to the description of recruits that were sent to join regiments. To his knowledge there was a regiment in Guernsey, 600 strong, to which the commanding officer had paid the greatest attention, not only with respect to discipline, but to their morals also. There was an order lately to complete that regiment, and for that purpose 147 convicts had been sent to them from the hulks. This must certainly be very painful to an officer who had paid the strictest attention to the morals of his men.General Ferguson
 said, if the statement of the hon. general was grounded on fact, it was incumbent on the House to require that the culprits should be recalled.Mr. Abercromby
 said, that it was by the advice of Mr. Graham that a number of persons who had been sent on board the hulks for slight offences, and conducted themselves very well during their confinement, were permitted to volunteer into regiments going on foreign service.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 said, that this was a garrison battalion, and not a regiment going on foreign service.General Ferguson
888 approved of the proposed amelioration of the situation of the chaplains, and the combining with it the instruction of the youth of the navy. It
888Admiral Harvey
891890889 hoped, that, as a deviation from mere detail was allowed when
891890889Lord Cochrane
, in explanation, defended the system which he had recommended, as peculiarly calculated to injure the enemy's coasting trade, which was the great nursery of his seamen.Lord Cochrane
 observed, that at the time of the battle of Trafalgar we had only 125,000 seamen; that since that period our naval success had been constant and progressive, and yet we now thought proper to keep up a naval force of 145,000. Sir Francis D'Ivernois was well known to be no friend to the French government; but he had thought proper to praise the distinct mode in which the French public accounts were kept. From these accounts it appeared that the French naval expenditure had been gradually diminishing since 1803. He merely made these observations, because there was a sort of feeling of partiality for the navy throughout the country, which was very apt to make us forget that a great part of that money which was expended on it might, perhaps, be much more profitably employed in carrying on the contest on the continent.Mr. Johnstone
 inquired, whether the saving was an incidental one, or one which proceeded from an economical arrangement? In the latter case it might be permanent; but if the saving proceeded from any other source, he feared that the estimate of next year would more than counterbalance it.Mr. Tierney
 said, that he did not rise to give any opposition to the motion, because he considered the estimates quite unexceptionable; he wished merely to allude to some petitions which he had thought it his duty some time since to lay before the House, and which came from the working-people in several of his Majesty's dockyards. They chiefly complained of the hardship of being charged with the Income tax; and although he himself had no opinion one way or the other of the justice of so charging them, yet he hoped that government would take their case into consideration.Mr. Calcraft
 was obliged to the right hon. gentleman for his explanation, which he would communicate to the petitioners, who were men of sense, not at all inclined to be perverse.Mr. Calcraft
 wished to know in what branch of the service the saving had been made?Admiral Markham
 conceived that the only objection to the Portsmouth copper was, that it was put into the rollers before it was cleansed. With respect to the proposed arrangement respecting the chaplains, he wished to see the duty of the schoolmaster united to that of the chaplain. The hon. admiral then alluded to the construction of a new ship called the Tremendous, and trusted there were not many more to be built upon the same construction, as he understood the timbers were rotten.Admiral Markham
 replied, that the right hon. gentleman had misunderstood him, for that the copper which he had seen at Portsmouth was new copper made at the Portsmouth mill.—He did not consider the House of Commons a proper place to investigate the comparative merits, either in point of quality or price of copper, or any other article. But if the right hon. gentleman would order an investigation to be made into the subject at the Admiralty, and would furnish him with such accounts as he would point out as necessary for the subject, he was confident that the right hon. gentleman would be convinced that the copper sheathing furnished by the Portsmouth mill was worse in quality, and higher in price, than the article could be bought at from private manufacturers; and if so convinced, he was confident that no person would be more anxious than the right hon. gentleman himself to correct the abuse complained of.Mr. Grenfell
887 observed, that in the estimates he saw no statement of the expence of the establishment formed some years ago in Portsmouth yard, for melting and re-manufacturing copper sheathing. In any observations he might make upon the subject, he did not mean to impute any blame whatever either to the Admiralty or the Navy board; but having been in the dock-yard at Portsmouth last summer, he had inspected the
887Mr. Grenfell
872.—Sir, I do not rise to oppose the right hon. gentleman's motion as I agree to its principle, but as I am not satisfied with the manner it is proposed to carry it into effect, I beg leave to trouble the committee with the reasons of my disagreement. It is well known that the commanders of armies under all governments possess the means of enriching themselves by various modes, which attend the power of the sword, and we are not without examples of this power having been effectually exercised both in this island and on the continent by British commanders. In the East, where this illustrious soldier began his active military career, where power peculiarly affords those means, he was invested with high command. During a series of successful and glorious achievements which afforded him opportunities of enriching himself according to the usage of India, it is well known he did not yield to such temptations, but made the service of his country and his own fair fame his only objects. The acknowledgments of the people of those countries, and the sentiments of the armies he commanded, bear unequivocal testimony to his conduct. What has been his conduct since he has been employed in Europe? In the first of the four years of our military operations in the peninsula, by the most brilliant achievements he acquired the thanks of this House, and the gratitude of his country, and had he not been disturbed by an incomprehensible jumble of commanders, those achievements would have been as profitable to his country as they were glorious to himself. During the last three campaigns, being freed from such impediments, he has raised the military character of Great Britain to stand foremost in Europe, having by skilful combinations and bold manœuvres, baffled and defeated the most boasted generals and the best armies of France. During this career the same disinterestedness has marked his conduct. The crown of Portugal appointed him its captain general, and placed him in the Regency. The governing power of Spain gave him high rank in their armies; both these countries desired that he would accept the large emoluments attached to those situations. He refused those emoluments from both those
872Mr. Whitshed Keene
 declared, that he had seldom experienced an occasion in which the discharge of his public duty corresponded so completely with the gratification of his private feeling. The conduct of the gallant earl who was the subject of the motion had always been most exemplary; but in the present instance he was persuaded that there would not be a dissenting voice in the committee. The desert of lord Wellington was acknowledged by the whole world. It was quite unnecessary to go into a detail of his manifold services. He had been a soldier from his earliest youth, and his country had ever derived the greatest benefits from his exertions. It was not merely by strict discipline that he was enabled to secure the self-devotion of his soldiers, it was by his attention to their wants, and by his kind and condescending conduct towards them. Invariably persevering and zealous, lord Wellington never allowed personal convenience or advantage to tempt him from the line of his public duty. When to fight was necessary, he bravely fought; but he never permitted any artful or affected demonstration of the enemy to induce him to lead his army into a contest, the consequences of which he could not clearly anticipate. It was useless, however, to dilate on the merits of this distinguished general; and he should therefore content himself with expressing his most cordial concurrence in the motion.Mr. Fremantle
883 took that opportunity of declaring his hearty assent to the present motion. He had hoped from the manner in which the subject had been introduced by the right hon. gentleman, that while the members of the House were unfortunately divided on so many points, at least they might rest on this with unanimity. He would not enter at all into the policy of the war in Spain, for the House had now only to determine whether lord Welling-
883Earl Temple
 observed, that the answer of the noble lord had not convinced him that the permission was justified. On the contrary, it had been given contrary to the Act of Settlement, and to all the acts of parliament passed on the subject, since that period.Lord Folkestone
 thought the hon. gentleman had entirely forgot what had passed in the last century, for if he would refer to the act, he would see that it authorised what was now complained of, and therefore his arguments fell to the ground. The hon. gentleman maintained, that there was not the same danger now from the introduction of foreign soldiers as formerly, because the army had been materially increased since then. He was of opinion that great confidence ought to be placed in those who now conducted the administration of public affairs.Mr. M. Montague
 objected to its being brought up, until he had put some questions to the noble lord who had moved the Army Estimates. There had been, he observed, for many years past, a very great increase in the number of foreign troops taken into British pay. They had increased from 5 to 30,000. This alarming increase he viewed with considerable jealousy, because it was not confined to those regiments on foreign stations, seeing that foreigners were enlisted into battalions in the Home Establishment. Two acts had been passed, authorising the enlistment of this description of soldiers in the course of the present reign, but these acts were to be viewed in the light of acts of indemnity to the government for having violated the constitution. What, however, he particularly wished to call the attention of the House to, and to require explanation from the noble lord was, with respect to the enlistment of these foreign troops into British battalions. He understood that the fact was so; at least it had been so stated to him. If it was not true, the noble lord would inform the House. It had also been told him, that our officers had been allowed to recruit their regiments from among the French prisoners. He particularly alluded to the 10th Light Dragoons, into which regiment he was informed upwards of one hundred men had been enlisted. If what he now stated was true, the orders must have been given by the commanding officer, or from the War Office. It might be said, that the two acts to which he had alluded would sanction the practice, but he should deny that any, act of parliament could justify such a measure, or could authorise the enlistment of foreigners, except into foreign corps. There was another circumstance which demanded notice, and that was permitting foreigners to bold commissions in British regiments. Such permission was contrary to the act, and was an evil daily increasing. He understood there was a foreign general commanding a district in this country. The noble lord, he trusted, would explain these matters to the satisfaction of the House.Lord Folkestone
917 thought the House ought not to follow any cry which might be raised in the country. It was for the good of the country, that a due proportion of reward should be held out for the duties which might be discharged towards it. He would ask the hon. mover of the Amendment, whether the scheme of reward in the Resolutions was not too narrow? It was limited to high and eminent offices; and this was certainly too narrow. It was to be remembered that parsimony was not economy,—no money was so badly employed as that which prevented money from being employed beneficially. [Laugh on the Opposition side.] Did the gentlemen opposite think that they were entitled to ridicule this proposition, because they held themselves out as great patriots and great apostles? He was as honest in his intention as they were themselves, although he sat on a different side of the House. He declared he hardly saw one person over against him to whom he could not give a hint of something. Nothing could be more contemptible than that nonsensical attempt at ridicule which gentlemen opposite resorted to. (Laugh.) Let them not imagine that he would be put down. He would now take the liberty to proceed in the argument, from that part of it where he was interrupted. Considering it on the general principle, he thought nothing was more clear, than that a faithful servant of the prince who had long discharged important duties merited reward, and there could be as little difficulty in conceding the opposite conclusion, that those who would attempt to thrust themselves into the situation of servants to a prince, merely for the sake of the remuneration to be obtained, and who would perhaps, the moment they were secure, barter his most important interests, deserved only degradation and contempt. He acknowledged, that upon this subject, he was not as well instructed as he ought to be; but he was perfectly competent to form this opinion, that the servants of a prince ought to be upright and sagacious men, and that if they were, they had a claim upon the country for eminent reward. They had a far better right to the appellation of patriots than those who, augmenting the popular clamour by invectives against government, covered their despicable designs by a title to which they
917Mr. Matthew Montague
 was firmly convinced, that it was not less the duty of faithful ministers to support the just prerogatives of the crown, than to maintain the acknowledged rights of the subject. He would rather that the general question of the abolition of sinecures had been debated, than that this insulated instance had been selected for discussion; but at the same time he admitted that it ought not to have been passed over in silence, since it had more than once received parliamentary animadversion. He could not, however, agree, that in this instance the conduct of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was culpable. He had two duties to discharge, the first to the country, and the second to the crown. If he had neglected to appoint a successor to the office of Paymaster of Widows' Pensions, it might justly have been considered a compromise of the prerogatives of the crown, but by giving it to colonel M'Mahon, under the conditions imposed, he had left the important question of the abolition of the sinecure still open to the future decision of parliament, and had not neglected the interests of the country.Mr. Lockhart
, of Kerry, opposed the Amendment, and conceived it would be a harsh and strong measure to refuse the concurrence of the House to an. appointment made at the commencement of a new reign.Mr. Herbert
dsl.915914l.913 said, he rose to move as an Amendment, That the salary to the Paymaster of Widows' Pensions should be struck out of this sum. Before he proceeded to state his reason for this Amendment, he would move, That the two first of the Resolutions which, upon the 31st day of May 1810, were reported from the Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider further of the Report which, upon the 29th day of June 1808, was made from the Committee on Public Expenditure, and which were then agreed to by the House, might be read; and the same were, as agreed to by the House, read, and are as follows:dsl.915914l.913Mr. Bankes
920 had attentively examined the journals, and could find no resolution of the House for the unqualified abolition of sinecures, even admitting the place of Pay master of Widows' Pensions to be so. The resolution which had been read recommended the substitution of one mode of reward for another, but before it could be maintained that it had been violated, it was necessary to shew that the substitute had been provided, which no hon. member had yet attempted to prove. The House was called upon by the mover of the Amendment to give as much validity to the Report of Commissioners as to the statement of a committee of its own, and to that statement as much authority as to an act of parliament This situation was denominated in the Journals a sinecure; but upon due investigation it would be found that the allegation was incorrect, and that although in 1783 only 600 widows were relieved, there were now not less than double the number of claimants on the fund; and if, as he had no doubt would be the case, colonel M'Mahon duly discharged the duties of his office, they would be found important and beneficial to the objects of the charity, for no scene could be more painful than to see a number of the wives of officers who had fallen in their country's service, eagerly crowding round the clerk of the War-office, like hungry paupers receiving their daily pittance from the master of a parish work-house.
920Mr. Morris
l.l.922921 thought the hon. member for Newcastle (Mr. Macdonald) hardly warranted in saying that he expected the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have come down that evening with a bill in his hand, to abolish the office in question, when it was remembered that only a few evenings ago the right hon. gentleman had declared his opinion upon the subject in a manner so little calculated to excite such an expectation. He thought also that the hon. gentleman bad been a little unfortunate in his vehement declamation against sinecures; for, it should be remembered, that he was himself the holder of a sinecure. There was, however, this difference between the two cases: in the one, the office had been granted as a reward for meritorious services, as a reward for actual and acknowledged merit, and in the other it had been bestowed upon the hon. member, when a school-boy. [Here Mr. Fitzgerald said he would not proceed further in his remarks, because he had just perceived the hon. member not to be in his seat.] In adverting to the hon. mover of the Amendment, he had no doubt that the praises he had so lavishly bestowed upon his right hon. friend the
l.l.922921Mr. Fitzgerald
, in explanation, said, he did not impure moral or political guilt to the hon. gentleman. He had only urged, that the hon. gentleman, in the warmth of his declamation against sinecures, seemed to forget that he himself was a sinecure placeman; and that there was this difference in the two cases—that colonel M'Mahon was appointed for his services, and the hon. gentleman while he was a school-boy.Mr. Fitzgerald
924 denied that the Reso-
924Lord Castlereagh
, in explanation, disclaimed passing the slightest imputation on colonel M'Mahon. On the contrary, he had pointed out a lucrative and honourable office which in his opinion might have been with propriety conferred on that gentleman. His right hon. friend had mistaken his observations on influence. What he had said was, that the votes of that House would be more influenced by the consideration that colonel M'Mahon was the person filling the obnoxious situation, than they would have been, had any other individual been so circumstanced.Mr. Whitbrend
926925 said he should trouble the House with but few observations, as he had given his sentiments fully in the committee. He certainly had not expected to be charged with ill-treating, not only the Prince Regent and the country, but Colonel M'Mahon also. If it was enough to move the indignation of a gallant officer to be recommended to a lucrative situation as the reward of his services, he was afraid that he had incurred the indignation of
926925The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 passed the highest encomiums upon the personal character of colonel M'Mahon, and thought he had been greatly injured, if not insulted, by the appointment. It drew upon him a degree of obloquy both in that House and throughout the country, in consequence of the discussions which had taken place on the subject. The motives of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer he conceived to be very equivocal; for if, at the time he recommended the appointment, he had any expectation of going out of power, then he must have intended to involve the Prince Regent solely in the consequences of such an appointment.General Tarleton
916 said, that he imagined the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have considered himself bound by the Resolutions of that House; but the right hon. gentleman was the best judge of his own conduct. It was, however, rather strange, that he should thus pick and choose among the sinecures; for it was in the recollection of the House, that some of the resolutions recommending the abolition of sinecure offices had been already acted upon. Much more could be said on this subject; but the business was so barefaced, and so palpably against every principle on which the House of Commons ought to act, that he would not waste one word more upon it,
916Mr. Charles Adams
931 said, that in the view he took of the question he would fail in the duty he owed to the public and to himself, did he not assign reasons for the line of conduct he should pursue, and for withholding his support from the amendment, which, giving every credit to the honourable mover for his intentions, seemed inadequate to relieve the public in any sensible degree, though it might deceive them by inducing a belief that thier interests were regularly watched, notwithstanding that this House had suffered the reports of various committees on the subject of measures to lie dormant on the table, some of them for a period of 30 years. It appeared to him that the blame
931Lord Cochrane
 would have preferred to meet the question in another shape, though he should regard it as a dereliction of his parliamentary duty, to avoid it many shape. For him self, he would abolish all sinecures, and trust to the generosity of a British parliament to reward those who had faithfully discharged their duty in the public service. He should give his vote for the Amendment.Mr. Home Sumner
, in explanation, said, that his sinecure was of very inferior value, and the emolument of it did not burden the public, but proceeded from some small fees from gentlemen taking office; and in that way he supposed he might have received some of the money of the right hon. gentleman. He was, however, at all times ready to surrender his sinecure, if others were abolished also: and notwithstanding the very modest tone in which the right honourable Lord of the Treasury had criticised his parliamentary conduct, he conceived himself perfectly free to oppose sinecures in general, or this one in particular.Mr. Macdonald
919 trusted that the House would that night rescind the vote it had passed on Friday last, with regard to an appointment which was calculated only to throw obloquy upon the Prince Regent" and excite disapprobation in the people. If, indeed, the House of Commons wished only to be considered as the support of the convenient obsequiousness of interested ministers, such a determination would be perfectly in character; but while it claimed to be the guardian of the public purse, a line of conduct directly opposite ought to be pursued. Was it because during twenty years of continued warfare the expences of government had been augmented from 16 to 100 millions, or because the means of maintaining our independence by the destruction of our commerce were diminished, that a decision like that which the House had a few nights since adopted, ought to be confirmed, to the abandonment of the primary functions of the, representatives of the people? If it were, it would be the bounden duty of the House now to speak a language not difficult to be understood, and to read a lesson to princes, which, if not followed, would endanger the security of the monarchy itself. He was willing to admit that col. M'Mahon deserved remuneration; but was there no way of bestowing it but by this degrading appointment? Could no place of emolument be found in the splendid establishment of the Prince Regent, by which his services might have been adequately compensated? He begged to remind the House of the time at which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought fit to fill up this vacancy it ought not to be forgotten that the right hon. gentleman was then a servant on trial. He was anxious to please his royal master by this nomination, and dreading lest the time might soon arrive when be could only gaze with wishful eyes up on it at a dis-
919Mr. Macdonald
911 declared that, during the whole of the twenty-five years he had sat in parliament, he had never heard such a doctrine as that of the hon. gentleman who spoke last. He had always thought, from all he knew of the history of the country, that the true way of supporting its interests in difficult times was by a strict adherence to the laws. The character of the House and the welfare of the nation had been upheld at such seasons by inspiring the people with confidence and spirits, not by banishing the one and depressing the other. At former periods the government had endeavoured to conciliate the affections and to elevate the hopes of the country by an uniform and scrupulous attention to its fundamental laws and institutions. What was it that the noble lord had asked for, but that a bill of indemnity should, consistent with the practice of the constitution, be resorted to in these cases, in order that parliament might be left to judge of the wisdom of the measure. It was this contempt of public opinion which formed one of the principal causes of our present calamities. The opinion of the House itself was equally despised by those men who unhappily continued to have the direction of affairs. There lay the real danger—there were the seeds of the real evil. The strength of the country was in its law, not in its hired armies. He could not see the policy of enlisting prisoners: he could not see the necessity of it, in the well known condition of our manufacturers: he could see no argument to justify it. If there was one feature which he lamented more than another in the conduct of government, it was this, that when retrenchment
911Mr. Curwen
930 admitted, that if it were expected that the people should continue with passive fortitude to bear the burdens necessarily imposed upon them, an example must be set by the highest authority, of a disposition to abolish all unnecessary drains on the resources of the country. Still, however, he must think that a great deal of warmth had pervaded the present discussion, which did not properly belong to it. The place in question had certainly been condemned thirty years ago, as an useless sinecure, by a very respectable commission. That condemnation had been since confirmed by committees of the House of Commons. But he must agree with the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that as no parliamentary proceedings had followed the reports of those committees, the right hon. gentleman would not have been authorised to say the place ought not to have been given. He lamented that the tone of his hon. friend who had just spoken, seemed to have been changed with respect to colonel M'Mahon. Although there had been many objections made to the grant itself, yet until the speech of his hon. friend, no objection had been adduced against the person on whom the grant was conferred. His hon. friend also accused the right hon. gentleman of selecting that person, with the view of gaining an undue influence, by humouring an undue prepossession on the part of his
930Mr. Sheridan
929l.928927 declared, that he had never heard a sarcasm more misplaced than that with which the right hon. gentleman began his speech. Was he acting in the conscientious discharge of his duty, when he gave the government of Berwick to his gallant friend near him, or was he not? Was it in reward of meritorious services, or was it with a view to parliamentary support? He would say, that the right hon. gentleman had seldom given more proper advice than when he advised the appointment of his hon. and gallant friend to that situation. As to colonel M'Mahon, it, would be the general opinion in the public mind, that the place which he held, was granted to him as to the personal favourite of the Prince Regent. The right hon. gentleman himself had, in the course of his administration, made more offers of efficient situations than almost any other minister: he had very recently made offers of a similar nature, in various quarters; and it was one of the most inauspicious symptoms of the "new era which had lately commenced, that these offers had been made, and had also been rejected. A noble lord under the gallery (lord Castlereagh) had told the House, that the present motion was quite unparliamentary; that the office itself should
929l.928927Mr. Whitbread
l. took notice of several items in the present estimates, the result of which was, that there appeared an excess of 600,000l.Mr. Fremantle
910 confessed he thought some inquiry necessary, because this was a favourite topic for popular purposes, and one which those who had popular objects in view, found it very convenient to use. He could not, however, but think the conduct of the noble lord and others very extraordinary, in representing every thing that might be construed into a grievance in its worst colours; as if no consideration was to be bad of the peculiar difficulties in the situation of the country. Were foreigners wantonly introduced, or did there not exist a sweeping and over-ruling necessity for resorting to new and extraordinary measures, if we were at all to contend with an enemy who left no means untried, and who had, and who exercised, the power of forcing all descriptions of men into his service? He doubted not that in ordinary times the government of the country would readily adhere to the Act of Settlement, as a provision intimately connected with the safety of the constitution; but under such a change of times and circumstances as was now witnessed, he could not perceive the propriety of setting up such complaints.
910Mr. Lamb
923 observed, that the argument of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down went to this, that if a member of that House held a sinecure office, he ought not to be expected to give a full, free, and fair vote upon any occasion in which that subject was involved. But what would be the state of parliament if this doctrine were carried to its extent; if such things were to be bandied from one member to another, as "You are a placeman and ought not to vote, and you are in place and should not speak?" It was such matters as these, and such appointments as the present, that gave rise to all that public obloquy which was so much to be deprecated. A good deal had been said about the Committee and Commissioners with whom the Resolution had originated, which was the ground of the opposition of his hon. friend the mover of the amendment. He remembered the appointment of these commissioners, and that they were recommended not to be members of parliament, in order that their deliberations might be the more fair and uninfluenced. They in their Report ad-
923Mr. Wilberforce
918 said, that the question now to be decided, was merely whether the House, in considering the Army Estimates for the year 1812, would or would not vote a sum of money which had hitherto been applied to the salary of Paymaster of Widows' Pensions. The inquiry, whether the office should or should not be abolished, could by no means strictly form any part of the discussion. His vote upon the first point would certainly be in the affirmative; upon the second he would
918Mr. Bathurst
l. explained the cause of the difference to be, that the pay of the adjutants and quarter-masters had been transferred to the present estimate, from the estimates of the staff. With respect' to the observation on the general increase of 600,000l.Lord Palmerston
909 said he was disposed to answer the noble lord, and he hoped satisfactorily. With respect to the question about the enlistment into the 10th regiment of Light Dragoons, it certainly had been determined to allow a certain number of prisoners to enter into that regi-
909Lord Palmerston
, while he expressed the obligation which he felt as a merchant, to the hon. gentleman who introduced this measure to the attention of the House, yet feared that the great difficulty which would occur was in the distinguishing common commercial trusts, and trusts on deposit. The case of Mr. Walsh, however heinous, he conceived it impossible to provide against. In the case of common commercial trusts a sum was deposited with the merchant, who entered it on his books, and the money went into circulation. Whatever difficulties might arise in this and other points, he thought the commercial world much indebted to the hon. gentleman.Mr. Baring
948, in pursuance of the notice he had given, wished to obtain the attention of the House to a few observations he had to make previous to submitting to their consideration the motion he intended to bring forward relative to Parochial Registers. He was sorry to find that many misconceptions had gone abroad respecting the measure, which he had no doubt would be done away when the nature of the Bill he now meant to introduce should be generally known. It must, he thought, be universally allowed, that parish registers were of great importance to all ranks and classes of people from the nobleman to the peasant; and it was highly desirable they should be regularly entered, and safely deposited. At present, instead of being kept in the house of the clergyman of each parish, they were kept in a very slovenly manner in the dwelling of the parish clerk, and he bad found, as Treasurer of the Navy, numberless instances of the widows of seamen, who, from this culpable negligence, were not able to prove their marriages. He was surprised to find that his intention to bring in this Bill had given considerable alarm to the clergy in many parts of the kingdom, and that in the neighbourhood of Epsom a meeting of clergymen had been called on the subject; but he was sure when they became acquainted with what was meant to be done they would immediately be free from such alarms. It was his intention in the present Bill to enact that all registers throughout the kingdom should be uniform, and that the parishes should supply themselves with the form from the king's printer: that the registers of births, baptisms, marriages, deaths, &c. should be entered into a book to be kept for the purpose by the clergyman of every parish; that such register should be made up once every year, and a duplicate thereof transmitted to the bishop of the diocese. Dissenters to have the power, at the end of every quarter, or of every year, to deliver their registers on oath to the clergyman of the established church of the parish in which such dissenters resided. At present all registers were kept in dwelling-houses, in a very insecure way. It would be highly culpable to suffer them to remain so; and he therefore moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulating and preserving parish and other registers of births,
948Mr. Rose
 did not object to the introduction of the Bill, as he understood it was a measure of quite a different nature from that of last session, to which he had many and great objections. Some of these his lordship proceeded to enumerate, and then turned to the consideration of the Bill now proposed. There were, he said, other modes of enforcing the law for the more perfect keeping of these registers, already in the power of the bishops of the various dioceses. If the law, as it now stood, therefore, was ineffectual, the most simple and efficacious mode would be to invigorate it, and not, as the right hon. gentleman wished, shape out an entirely new course. But there appeared to be some reason for this total change, which was, that it would lead to a source of revenue, as new offices would be created, and stamps were to be necessary before extracts were given from the records. The object was, however, desirable, though great care and attention was necessary in framing the Bill.Lord Folkestone
934 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for certain Papers relating to a Member of that House, which were necessary for him to ground the case on, which it was his intention to bring forward, and that complaint which he meant to prefer In the first place he would move for "A Copy of the Record of the Conviction of Mr. Benjamin Walsh, at the Old Bailey, for Felony." He would then move an humble Address to the Prince Regent, praying that he would be graciously pleased to cause "A Copy of the Pardon which had been granted to Mr. Walsh, together with a copy of the Judges' Letter, in consequence of which the pardon was granted, to be laid before that House." Here he thought it became him to say, that the Pardon granted could not have been granted to Mr. Walsh, but as it might have been granted to any other individual. Whether Mr. Walsh had been the highest or the lowest person in the state, whether he had been a member of that House, or one of the meanest individuals out of doors, he could only have been exempted from
934Mr. Bankes
944 said he felt particular pleasure in rising to second the motion of his hon. friend. There were many recent instances, and particularly one glaring instance, (that of Mr. Walsh) which proved the necessity of the introduction of this Bill. As the Bank of England made it a point not to keep any account for certain securities, it was ne-
944Mr. J. Smith
945 thought there was a singularly disgusting anomaly in the law on this subject as it at present stood. The servant of the party entrusted with money could be punished for a breach of trust, while the master escaped with impunity. He feared this anomaly would not altogether be removed by the Bill about to be brought in. He certainly did not mean to oppose the motion, but he thought many of the inconveniences at present complained of might be traced to a want of caution in the parties depositing their money, and he would not give them a penal statute to guard that which with prudence they might guard themselves. They ought to be discreet in the choice of their bankers, to watch over their conduct, and see that their securities were forthcoming; and that would be more likely to prevent the evil complained of, than the making of it a capital offence. He thought there would be less objection to making such an offence a misdemeanor, than to making it felony. The law proposed, might have the effect of making the parties depositing money more supine than they were at present, more negligent
945Mr. Morris
946 said, that he was glad that the hon. gentleman did not mean to oppose the introduction of the Bill, whatever he might think of its efficacy. He was aware that there was much difficulty in rendering it perfectly calculated to meet the evil it was proposed to remedy; but there would be ample opportunity for giving it a full consideration. With respect to the argument, that no advantage would arise from making the crime a misdemeanor, he conceived that the punishment of transportation would be a sufficient ground of terror, as it regarded those who might be disposed to commit this description of crime. The hon. gentleman also seemed to imagine that the Bill would tend to make individuals more lax and careless; but he did not apprehend that such a consequence would follow, and be was of opinion that the attention of those individuals whom the Bill regarded, would be awakened more to a sense of duty than by any possible attention of those to whom property-belonged. Besides, he apprehended it would he impracticable to make a law obliging persons to be more attentive to their property. The necessity of some measure like the present, appeared more strongly, from two recent instances: but his hon. friend could not be charged justly with legislating on the spur of the moment, as neither the case of Mr. Walsh nor any other recent failure, pointed out the necessity of a legislative enactment, more than what had occurred for many years to the ruin of several individuals, and no doubt existed in any one's mind of the enormity of the offence. He conceived, that the present measure would have the most beneficial effects in causing an inquiry also into the practicability of making all the offences under this denomination rank as misdemeanors. On the whole, the Bill had his full concurrence: in the committee, it would unquestionably require all the attention of professional
946The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 took the opportunity of correcting a statement that had gone abroad respecting the mode of payment to the Nottingham manufacturers by their employers. It had been stated that he had said one of the causes of the disturbances arose from the masters paying their men not in money, but in goods. That practice was adopted not by the great body of the masters, but by the lower classes. In the statement going forth as it had done, unexplained, reflections were thrown upon the opulent part of the manufacturers, which he never intended.Mr. J. Smith
 said, that since the Bill had been last before the House he had received several communications, which had made it advisable to extend the provisions of the Bill to the whole kingdom. The Bill had been, in consequence, new modelled in many parts, and in that state was submitted for discussion to the committee.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 replied in a few words, denying that patronage or revenue were in the slightest degree connected with the design of the measure. With regard to the first, the little there was of it was entirely with the archbishop of Canterbury; and the second was answered by saying, that it would not produce one farthing.Mr. Rose
959l958lll957 was sure that the House would not think that the paper which had been produced on the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman, exhibited a sufficient appearance of abuse to warrant the appointment of the proposed committee. Most of the cases alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman had nothing in them, and the hon. and learned gentleman's observations arose from the state of ignorance in which he candidly professed himself to be on the subject. But was it a just ground for a committee that an hon. member did not happen to know what he was talking about? He
959l958lll957The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated the facts in the case of lord Keith in the same way as that in which they had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He then proceeded to the best of his recollection, to detail those in the case of captain Tomlinson. Captain Tomlinson's vessel had been repaired at Dartmouth. The person by whom it had been repaired, a man of the name of Tanner, became a bankrupt, and by his books it appeared that his charges were much less than those made to the Admiralty. It was discovered that these last were forged. Two bills of indictment were in consequence found, the one against Tanner, the other against captain Tomlinson. On opening the prosecution against Tanner, it appeared that the forgery had not strictly been committed in the county in which in the indictment it was laid to be committed. The consequence was that the judge directed the acquittal of Tanner, and the indictment against captain Tomlinson being under the same circumstances, his prosecution was also abandoned.The Attorney General
, of Kerry, bore the highest testimony to the character of capt. Temple, than whom a more humane and honourable man did not exist. On his trial, there did not appear the slightest ground to suppose, that the man of whose murder he was accused, had died in consequence of the punishment inflicted upon him. A fever was the evident cause of his death, and the judge in this case directed the immediate acquittal of captain Temple.Mr. Herbert
 agreed with the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, that they were not legislating on an individual instance; for there were, unfortunately, but too many instances attended with sufficient distress to call, on the legislature for a remedy. He had, however, doubts of the expediency of the present measure. There was a danger lest they should overstep a salutary line in legislation, by attempting to do for individuals what individuals ought to do for themselves, and carrying penal laws to such an extent as to place mankind in a state of tutelage. The act against servants differed from the present; for it did not create a substantive class of offences, but merely reduced a particular offence within the head of felony which, by legal subtlety, could not be considered as such. He had seen the present Bill, which he believed to be drawn up with great care; but there was one observation he could not help making respecting it, that its provisions extended to all sorts of property entrusted to another. Now, when he recollected the amount of the property held in trust in this country, he was afraid of the effect it might have in depriving the courts of equity of the power of affording redress in cases of abuse of trust, from the principle of a person not being obliged to state what might criminate himself. In this manner the present Bill might introduce more insecurity into property than could be compensated for by any benefit which it might in other respects produce.Mr. Horner
, in explanation, observed, that the statement of the hon. gentleman differed very much from that of his right hon. and learned friend. His right hon. and learned friend had said that there was no conviction whatever; the hon. gentleman asserted that there had been a conviction. He repeated that capt. Tomlinson was a very respectable officer, and had been promoted since the circumstance alluded to. In a private statement circulated by capt. Tomlinson, he declared that he had been acquitted because there was no evidence against him, and in nowise on account of any flaw in the indictment. He added, that the person by whom the vessel had been repaired, happening to have a sledge hammer in his hand, desired another person to sign for him; a practice very common with that individual.Mr. Brougham
960, in explanation, distinctly disclaimed the slightest intention of imputing to sir William Scott the least impropriety of conduct; but he blamed the mode in which the item was described in
960Mr. Brougham
ll956lllllllll955llllll954ldsllqui tamlll953llll952**ll*951950, in pursuance of a previous notice, rose to move, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the application of the various sums received as Droits of the Crown and of Admiralty." He observed, that when he formerly submitted a similar proposal to the House, it was resisted on various grounds, but principally it was urged that he had not chosen a convenient time for the adoption of his Resolutions, pending a certain contract which was said to have been entered into with the crown, at the commencement of the present reign, for the establishment of the civil list. Such an objection could not now be urged, and from the general result of the debate, the country had certainly every reason to hope that an inquiry of a most important nature would now be commenced, preparatory to a new and general settlement of the civil list revenue. He did not believe that on the previous debate one hon. gentleman had denied the right of the House to examine into the application, as Well as into the amount of this fund, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had told the House, that fully conscious of the due employment of these
ll956lllllllll955llllll954ldsllqui tamlll953llll952**ll*951950Mr. Brougham
 wished to know whether capt. Tomlinson had not been lately appointed to a command of the Sea Fencibles?Mr. Brougham
 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for more effectually preventing the Embezzlement of Securities for money, and other effects, left or deposited for safe custody, or other special purpose, in the hands of bankers, merchants, agents, brokers, attornies, or others. Without referring to a late case which had made much noise in the country, it was well known, that a number of instances had occurred within these few years, of violations of trust, for which there was no existing punishment; and it became therefore necessary for the legislature to interfere, that the subject might have that security for his property to which he was entitled. The Bill now proposed to be brought in could hardly be said to be an addition to the criminal code of the country; it was more properly an extension of an act already in existence, by which it was made felony for servants or clerks to embezzle or misapply the property of their masters entrusted to them.Mr. Drummond
 replied, that not only had no such appointment taken place, but that there had been no Sea Fencibles for the last two years.Mr. Croker
 did not pledge himself to the fact of the conviction of Tanner but with respect to capt. Tomlinson, he was unquestionably acquitted in consequence of the flaw in the indictment, and not upon the merits of the case. It was true that he had been promoted, and that the promotion had taken place after the occurrence alluded to, but before it was discovered.Mr. Croker
961 observed, that the hon. and learned gentleman declared that captain Tomlinson had been most honourably acquitted. Without giving any opinion on the merits of capt. Tomlinson, he must say that the hon. and learned gentleman's statement was altogether fallacious. Capt. Tomlinson had commanded one of his Majesty's ships, which it became necessary to repair at Dartmouth. The bill made for the repairs done was utterly false, being enormously higher than the expences actually incurred. This bill, it was alleged, that captain Tomlinson had countersigned, by which it was rendered payable at the Navy board. When presented
961Mr. Croker
 spoke in favour of the Bill, which, he contended, was more intended to secure the money deposited for safe custody, than to operate in any other case.Mr. Manning
949 observed, that if the clergy, as well as the laity, had considered the Bill with the same spirit of conciliation that had actuated the House, much of the ill-blood to which it had given rise would have been spared. He was convinced that the right hon. gentleman had only the public benefit in view, as was shewn by his conduct during the last year, when he procured his act to be circulated through the country, courting objections and amendments to it. His chief design, in now rising, was to contradict an opinion, which he was informed had gone
949Mr. W. Smith
 stated, that at the trial, capt. Tomlinson's case was not entered into.Sir R. Bickerton
 thought the object of the Bill commendable, and that it deserved support, if it did not trench on the feelings of individuals. There existed a mass of confusion in these registers, which it would be most beneficial to the general interests of the community to have remedied: but he hoped the Bill would be freed from all the objectionable parts, which abounded so much in that brought in by the right hon. gentleman, on the same subject, last session; such, as if a clergyman failed in accuracy in keeping such registers, he should be liable to felony; in other cases, to be suspended from his functions, and liable to imprisonment for a certain number of days. These things, he believed, had caused great alarm; and if not done away in the present Bill, such alarm would be increased.Mr. Bathurst
964 rose and objected to his being upon it. He said he thought that neither that gentleman nor Mr. Morris ought to be members of the committee. To them personally no objections could possibly be made; but the circumstance of their being Masters in Chancery made it, in his opinion, unfit that they should he appointed to enquire into the causes which retarded the decisions of Suits in that Court. The Master of the Rolls, who had been a member of the committee
964Sir S. Romilly
 wished, that his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) who had made the statement complained of, had been present, that if it were necessary he might explain any thing objectionable in what he had urged, for he was sure there was no man to whom it would give greater pain to do injustice to the character of a gallant officer.Mr. Abercromby
 would have waited until he should have seen the hon. and learned gentleman in his place, but the fact was, that the production of this document would rather strengthen than weaken the side of the argument which that hon. and learned gentleman had espoused.Mr. Croker
 observed, that in the course of the debate last night, the case of captain Tomlinson had been alluded to, and at that time he was not prepared with the necessary information to exculpate this meritorious officer. It was stated, that he had not been honourably acquitted of the charge made against him; but by papers, for which he should take the liberty of now moving, the contrary would evidently appear to be the fact. He submitted the subject to the House in the first instance, thinking that not a moment should be lost, in removing an undeserved stigma from the character of captain Tomlinson. He therefore moved, "That there be laid before the House a Copy of a Letter from the Solicitor of the Navy, reporting the result of the trial of Benjamin Tanner and Nicholas Tomlinson, at the Old Bailey, on the 21st of July 1810."Mr. Croker
, in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for the re-appointment of the committee of last year upon this subject. He explained, that his object was, that the Suitors in Chancery, as well as in the Appellant jurisdiction, should receive justice with as much facility as in any of our other courts. The inquiry would be first directed to ascertain what progress had been made since the last year; and secondly, to discover the causes of the great delay so universally complained of. He concluded by moving "That a Committee be appointed to enquire into the causes that retard the decision of Suits in the high court of Chancery;" which was agreed to by the House. He proposed that it should consist of the following members: Mr. Taylor, the Attorney-General, Mr. Ponsonby, Mr. Whitbread, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Lockhart, Mr. Simeon, Sir S. Romilly, Mr. Burton, the Solicitor General, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Ed ward Morris, Mr. Giles, Mr. Horner, Mr. Abercromby, Mr. Brougham, and Sir J. NicholMr. M. A. Taylor
 opposed the motion, and contended, that his Majesty's ministers had consulted the honour and dignity of The country by the course they had adopt ed, and instanced, as a proof of their vigour, that not a French flag was flying in any colonial possession. He considered that going into a committee would have no effect, and would dull the spirit of valour among our. Spanish allies, while, by conducting the present contest with unabated perseverance, final success would be the consequence.Lord Desart
 (of Kerry) could see no good purpose which would be answered by voting in favour of the present motion. It would neither improve our affairs at home nor abroad; it might impede the pending negociations with America, and interfere with the conduct of the war in the peninsula.Mr. Herbert
10161015 said, the inhabitants of this country were now carrying on a war against an enemy more difficult to resist than any who had hitherto appeared in modern times. Was this not a time, he would ask, when every honest man would wish to give strength and efficacy to the empire? Was this not a time for every well-wisher to his country to rally round the councils of his sovereign, and to support that august personage, who, till lately, had been so much the theme of the panegyrics of the hon. gentlemen opposite? Why did those gentlemen not come forward and give him their assistance when they were asked? [Hear from Opposition!] The hon. gentlemen might cry hear, hear, hear; but he would ask them, had not that august and exalted person opened his arms to them? and was not the manner in which he had been refused a dereliction of public duty? On what grounds did they refuse to join the present administration? It must be either on account of foreign politics, with respect, for instance, to the degree of vigour with which this country ought to assist Spain and Portugal, or it must be on account of our home policy, particularly with respect to the removal of the disabilities affecting the Catholics of Ireland. But if the right hon. gentleman now at the helm of affairs, were to throw up the
10161015Mr. Matthew Montague
"And well not fail.""But screw our courage to the sticking place,10121011101010091008 said, he did not think the topics which had been touched upon in support of the motion, were such as rendered it necessary for him to enter into any long discussion of their merits. It was not, therefore, his intention to follow the hon. baronet in his progress round the world, nor the hon. member who had seconded him, in that course which he had pursued, and which he had commenced his speech by stating it was his intention cautiously to avoid. He could not agree, however, that the mode which was proposed on this occasion was an expedient form of proceeding, nor did the views which he took on the subject lead him to an opinion, that any proceeding of this kind was at all advisable. He regarded the motion of the hon. baronet, indeed, as one which would place the House in a situation of all others the most embarrassing. He knew, indeed, that similar motions had been often before made, and he knew too, that they had seldom or never been acceded to. He believed that such motions had been generally rejected on grounds that appeared to his mind quite satisfactory. It would at least be a more intelligible proposition if, instead of this extended inquiry, involving amidst an infinite variety of questions, many not only of the most important and interesting but of the most delicate nature, some specific proposition upon a distinct subject had been submitted, and the House required to take it into consideration. Such an inquiry as the House was now called upon to enter
"And well not fail.""But screw our courage to the sticking place,10121011101010091008Mr. Robinson
1026102510241023 said, that he should have lamented if he had not had an opportunity of addressing the House; but being confident that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down would not suffer a division to take place, without first making a speech, he had restrained himself till it was concluded. He was the more ready to do so, since there was no gentleman in the House that he was more desirous of following, from the manly and direct manner in which all his attacks were made, so that the real object of them could never be equivocal. The question had been put by the hon. gentleman on its true foundation, namely, to what set of men the government of Great Britain should be committed; to whom the safety of the empire should be entrusted; avoiding the general topics urged by the hon. baronet, which had little to do with the main subject of discussion. On that question he was perfectly ready to enter the lists, and he should barter his principles, and abandon the firm convictions of his judgment, if he were to desert the present system of administration for that which had uniformly met with the concurrence of the opposite side of the House. Those who, on perusing the important correspondence recently published, imagined that any middle course could be pursued, which might produce a combination of talent, were by the address just delivered, completely undeceived, and every hope of that kind that some had perhaps too fondly cherished, must now be for ever blasted. Those who before were inclined to impartiality, must now once for all decide, under whose banners they would enrol themselves. In his opinion, a coalition on the part of lords Grey and Grenville would not have been a greater inconsistency than when on, a former occasion many of the party opposite consented to act with them. The principles of those two noble lords would not have been injured in the opinion of
1026102510241023Lord Castlereagh
1035103410331032 would not trouble the House at length on the question before it, because whatever the hon. baronet might honestly think of the object of his motion, the question was not to decide on the subjects he had introduced in his speech, but simply this,—whether it was necessary or not to advise his Royal Highness to choose other counsellors? This was obviously the question; and, indeed, it was frankly and honourably confessed to be so, by an hon. gentleman (Mr. Whitbread): so that the hon. baronet was unconsciously the leader of the great phalanx on his side of the House. It was impossible to suppose, and even the ingenious speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney) could not amuse the House into an opinion, that it was seriously intended to discuss the negociations in 1806, or the two first Spanish campaigns, or other expeditions, which had already been often submitted to their consideration. There was a part of the hon. baronet's speech, however, connected with these points, which he did not wish altogether to pass over. The hon. baronet approved of the expedition to Copenhagen on such grounds, that he begged leave to decline praise given on such a foundation. The expedition, according to the hon. baronet, was justified by expediency, but but by the law of nations. He would contend that on every rational principle of the law of nations, that expedition was perfectly justifiable Thus much alone would he say on the different topics introduced by the hon. baronet, not as abandoning any of these topics when properly brought forward, nor indeed out of any disrespect to the hon. mover himself, but because the motion appeared to be, however ignorant the hon. baronet might be of it, for inquiry not into the state of the nation, but into the state of parties. The
1035103410331032The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1039103810371036 had anticipated the turn which the discussion had taken; namely, to a consideration of the principles on which the new administration—if it could be so called—was formed. It was painful to an individual standing almost alone, unbacked by any party, to express his opinion on this subject; but it was a duty from which he had determined not to shrink. In the formation of a new administration, there were two material questions that pressed themselves upon the country, and on his mind: the one the military transactions abroad; the other the peace and tranquillity of the empire, and especially of Ireland. To the military transactions he gave his warmest
1039103810371036Mr. Canning
 could not suffer the House to separate, without noticing a most extraordinary expression which had fallen from his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In alluding to lords Grey and Grenville, he had stated, that they bad done nothing on the Catholic question during their administration, further than "inserting a little something in the Mutiny Bill." Now he (sir Samuel) recollected, that at the time of the introduction, this "little something" was represented by his right hon. friend as a matter of such tremendous importance, that he noticed it in his public address to his constituents, and added that the King would make a stand for the constitution, and that he would rally round his sovereign on that occasion. This was so important a fact, that he could not avoid noticing it now, for his right hon. friend, to serve his own purpose then, took occasion to make that public statement, which his followers reechoed, and which had nearly raised a war of religion in the country. (Hear, hear!)Sir S. Romilly
1040 was desirous of setting right one of the most extraordinary misrepresentations which he had ever heard, the more extraordinary, as coming from a person so capable of understanding every thing that could pass. He had certainly made use of the precise words imputed to him; but had he stopped there? Had he not said that the "little something" was introduced upon such arguments and principles, that, to any persons possessing any thing like wisdom or the qualities of statesmen, must evidently appear to encourage hopes beyond that
1040The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1030, in explanation, said, that he was not aware of any recent circumstances
1030Lord Castlereagh
983 wished to ask the hon. gentleman whether it was his intention to proceed on the subject that evening? If so, he begged to submit to his consideration that the papers which constituted the greater part of the case, were but that moment delivering to the members, and that there was still another piece of evidence to be produced, namely, the Letter from
983Mr. Abercromby
 replied, that he came fully prepared to bring under the consideration of the House the question of Mr. Walsh's conduct; and that unless very grave and substantial reasons indeed were adduced, he was persuaded that this was one of the matters which the House could feel no disposition to postpone. Although the printed copies of the papers had, as the hon. gentleman had said, been delivered but that day, that appeared to him of little consequence. There was only one line in those papers on which he should rest the motion, that he felt it his duty to submit to the House, and that was, that Mr. Walsh had been found guilty of the felony laid in his indictment. With respect to Mr. Walsh's letter to his brother, it would be produced at the bar of the House by Mr. Jenkyns the solicitor, and would be read distinctly and audibly by the clerk at the table. This in his opinion, would afford the House an ample opportunity of judging of its tendency. The thing would speak for itself in the most unequivocal terms; and the latter would exhibit a complete avowal of a guilty mind and a guilty act. If, after having heard this letter, the House should think further delay necessary, however unwillingly, he must bow to their opinion. There was one argument of the hon. gentleman's, which he could by no means allow. He could not admit that under such circumstances the absence of any hon. members afforded a just ground for postponing the consideration of the subject. The hour was by no means unusually early, and it ought to be known to every member of parliament, that matters of privilege took precedence of all other questions. He put it to the House whether or not they wished that the business should proceed? (A general cry of, Go on, go on!)Mr. Bankes
984 thought that there could not be a more grave and solemn reason as-
984Mr. Lamb
 said, there could be but one opinion as to the gravity, weight, and solemnity of this question, on which it was not possible for him to anticipate what would be the judgment of the House. He had looked a good deal into the case, and possessed himself as much as he could of its nature and bearings, and he must say, that when gentlemen who had not yet entered upon its consideration, came to bestow upon it their attention, they would find that it was one of great magnitude and difficulty. He could not, therefore, help thinking, that it would be advantageous to allow further time for the obtainment of full and complete information. It was a very short time since the papers before the House were produced, and as had been justly remarked, the most important document relating to the case had not yet beet brought up. On these grounds he wished to submit to the hon. gentleman and to the House, the propriety of hearing the Letter from Mr. Walsh to his brother read, and then, after they had had an opportunity of considering all the documents together, as well as the precedents on their Journals, which bore upon the present case, they might come to a more fit and legitimate decision than if they proceeded to judgment on the crude materials of which they were now in possession. For these reasons he was anxious that the desire expressed by his hon. friends for delay, should be acceded to.Mr. C. W. Wynn
985 said, he had already be-come sufficiently acquainted with the case, to be enabled to decide on what he thought the just and proper course for the House to pursue. The documents produced afforded a good ground on which they might proceed to judgment. But as there might be gentlemen who had not turned their attention to the subject with so much diligence as the hon. gentleman who preceded him, and as the papers had been so lately put into their hands, he could see no reason for pressing on the discussion, if any member thought a small delay would enable him to come to a more mature determination. They had, in his
985Mr. Bathurst
 observing that he was the last man who would wish to be too hasty in pressing such a question, expressed his intention of postponing the decision of it until Monday.Mr. Bankes
 apprehended, that as the business was not then to be concluded, it would be necessary to make a fresh order for the attendance of Mr. Walsh in his place on Monday. In the first place, however, it would be expedient to ascertain whether Mr. Walsh had been served with the order of the House, requiring his attendance in his place on this day.The Speaker
 Mr. Skelton, have you served Mr. Benjamin Walsh, a member of this House, with the order of the House, requiring his attendance in his place on this day.The Speaker.
 Yes, Sir, I have. I saw Mr. Walsh yesterday morning at ten o'clock, and he told me he had received from his brother the order which I left at his house on Tuesday night.Messenger.
 Mr. Jenkyns, you were the solicitor to the prosecution against Mr. Benjamin Walsh, a member of this House?The Speaker.
 Yes, Sir.Mr. Jenkyns.
 Have you brought with you the letter mentioned in the order of this House, purporting to be a letter from Mr. Benjamin Walsh to his brother?The Speaker.
 I have.Mr. Jenkyns.
 Are you acquainted with the hand-writing of Mr. Walsh?The Speaker.
 No; I am not.Mr. Jenkyns.
 Is there any body with you who is acquainted with it?The Speaker.
 Yes; Mr. Atride.Mr. Jenkyns.
986 Mr. Atride, are you ac-
986The Speaker.
 Yes.Mr. Atride.
 Have you ever seen hint write?The Speaker.
 I have.Mr. Atride.
 Look at that letter, and inform the House, whether it is the hand-writing of Mr. Benjamin Walsh?The Speaker.
 I believe it is.Mr. Atride.
 Do you entertain any doubt on the subject? Look at the whole of the letter.The Speaker.
 I have no doubt that this is Mr. Walsh's hand-writing.Mr. Atride.
 Have you ever seen that letter before?The Speaker.
 Never.Mr. Atride.
 Mr. Jenkyns, were you at the trial of Mr. Walsh?The Speaker.
 Yes.Mr. Jenkyns.
 By whom was that letter delivered into the court?The Speaker.
 By the Solicitor General;Mr. Jenkyns.
 In whose custody has it been ever since?The Speaker.
 In mine, Sir.Mr. Jenkyns.
 Is that the identical letter delivered into court by the Solicitor General on the trial of Mr. Walsh, and kept by you ever since?The Speaker.
 It is.Mr. Jenkyns.
 wished to know whether to agree to the printing of this paper would be to entertain the charge brought forward against Mr. Walsh? If so, it would be a grave subject for the consideration of the House, and he requested, therefore, to be favoured with the opinion of the Chair.Mr. Lockhart
 apprehended that the letter was part of the proof against the hon. member. What decision the House would come to on the charge, it would be for them to determine, when they came to consider the evidence of which this letter was a part.The Speaker
987, understanding that the letter was to be received as evidence of the charge, objected most strongly to its reception, because it was only evidence of a most dishonourable and infamous transaction between one individual and another. He hoped the hon. gentleman did not mean to adduce it in support of the record of Mr. Walsh's conviction. That could not be done, for the contents of the record
987Mr. Lockhart
988 confessed himself unable to distinguish the letter from the other documents on the subject, or to understand why the ordering of the letter to be printed was more completely to entertain the charge than the ordering of the printing of the other documents. The hon. gentleman seemed to have misconceived what fell from the chair. The charge was not at present before the House in a shape to be entertained, nor would it
988The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that by what had been already done, the letter must appear on the Journals, and must be transmitted to posterity, as having been received and read in the House, just as completely as if it were ordered to be printed. The objection might with more propriety have been made to the motion on Tuesday for its production.Mr. Wynn
 said, that this was the proper time to acquaint the House, that he had received two letters from Mr. Walsh, intimating his intention of not appearing in his place, but not ascribing that intention to any bodily incapacity. As he could not find in the Journals any precedent of a written defence having been received from members, who, having been ordered to attend, failed to do so, without attributing his non-attendance to bodily incapacity, he would not read those letters, unless it were the pleasure of the House that he should do so.The Speaker
sine quâ non102910281027 expressed his happiness at hearing what were called the dry principles of the noble lord who had just taken his seat; they had undergone no change, and needed none, for any that were mote convenient for every emergency it was difficult to devise. His principles on the Catholic question were the same, namely, a principle which allowed him upon one occasion to be for the Catholics, on another to be against them. All that was known was, that as the noble lord came out so he went in. On lord Wellesley's going out of office there had certainly been great difficulty in persuading any other man to come into office, and the right hon. gentleman opposite was doubtless happy in the noble lord's assistance, for the noble
sine quâ non102910281027Mr. Tierney
102210211020101910181017 rose, and expressed his surprise that on such an occasion the question should be suffered to go to a division without any explanation of their policy or views by any one member of the government. Notwithstanding the many pointed and personal allusions which had been made to himself by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, in a spirit, he Would admit, of such good humour as excited no unpleasant feeling, he should have taken no part at that period of the debate if he had not thought it of importance that some explanation should be given by ministers of the views they entertained, and of the policy they meant to act upon at so critical and perilous a period; If the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer should not think proper to give any explanation upon the subject, he thought it desirable and necessary that at least the House should obtain from the noble lord opposite (lord Castlereagh) some exposition of his views, now that he was about to become a member of the administration. With respect to the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, he must observe that he had expressed himself extremely satisfied with the laugh he had produced; and in adverting to that declaration, he was reminded of an expression of that hon. member, when in a former
102210211020101910181017Mr. Whitbread
10141013, without entering into a consideration of the ordinary forms of parliamentary proceeding, was of opinion, that a motion had never been submitted to the House, for which there existed more justifiable or stronger grounds. He entertained no wish to hold a desponding tone, or to think meanly of the public resources, but he could not perceive how acceding to the present motion, would be any confession of weakness, or betray any marks of pusillanimity. He did see, however, powerful arguments for going into the proposed committee. Among these were the extensive distresses of our commerce, the decay of our manufactures, a perilous foreign war, the nature of our relations with America, and unappeased discontent in Ireland. If any combination of circumstances could be imagined to create a necessity on the part of the House for entering into a grave consideration of the condition of the country, such a necessity did now exist. To every other motive was to be added, the consideration that the country was now governed by a divided, distracted, and inefficient administration. That ministry had recently lost the talents of marquis Wellesley, and he was sure that whatever difference of opinion might subsist upon some of his measures, no man would deny to him the reputation of an enlarged and statesman like capacity. He thought, therefore, that the ministry had lost much of their strength by the secession of the noble marquis, and was besides rather weakened by the accession of the noble lord (Castlereagh). [Loud cries of
10141013Mr. Lamb
10071006100510041003l10021001 rose to second the motion. He said, that he would not touch en all the topics which had been elucidated by his hon. friend, but content himself with an humbler flight. He would not follow his hon. friend into every region of the world through which he had wandered, to the delight and instruction of those who had the good fortune to hear his oration; but would confine himself to themes of more interest, though perhaps less susceptible
10071006100510041003l10021001Mr. Tighe
1000999mala fides?l998l997bona fidesbona fide996l995l994993992991990989 began by observing, that when he considered the importance and magnitude of the question to which he was about to call the attention of the House; when he considered the present critical state of public affairs, and the alarming aspect
1000999mala fides?l998l997bona fidesbona fide996l995l994993992991990989Sir Thomas Turton
1031 felt it necessary to take up the attention of the House but for a few moments. He begged leave, in the most positive manner, to state, that neither lords Grey or Grenville did, at any period of their political lives, much less in the formation of the government at which they were at the head, hold out any idea that the Catholic claims were not to be deemed a government question: on the contrary, previously to their dismissal from office, they expressly stated, that they ever would reserve to themselves, whenever the subject was introduced into parliament, the right of advising the King as a government, and not merely as individuals.—As to the proposal to join the present administration, he would say a few words. Of lord Grenville it was not permitted him to speak, but of lord Grey, he would pronounce, that if any man had been more conspicuous than another in the country for public honour and private faith, for public purity and private worth, that man was lord Grey. Such a character was he, that there was not any person, however high, who might not go with that noble lord with more honour into the obscurity of retirement, than follow the right hon. gentleman to the most dazzling heights of power. How vain was it, then, to speak of such a coalition! The offer of his Royal Highness he would always consider as dictated by responsible advisers, and it was an offer that never was intended to be accepted, but was, in fact, meant to be refused. It was a mockery, which merited and could receive only rejection. He only regretted, indeed, that his Royal Highness could ever have been brought to think so ill of those noble lords; as to imagine that in one short year they
1031Earl Temple
1075 rose and said: Sir, the motion for the repeal of the Legislative Union stands for next Tuesday, and upon that day it was my fixed determination to have brought it before the House; but it has been strongly represented to me from different quarters, that in consequence of the Assizes now com
1075Mr. Hutchinsson
 the messenger was then examined. He stated the order to have been served by him on Mr. Walsh, upon Friday at two o'clock.Mr. Skelton
1090 thought it would not be regular to put on their Journals that palliation or defence which it was obviously the wish of Mr. Walsh to get thereon inserted, through their being read by the Speaker. He was not a little embarrassed how to act. It appeared that till Saturday last Mr. Walsh had called in no medical attendance. On Friday last he had been served with an order front the House to at-
1090Mr. Bankes
 was of opinion, that from the representation which had been made before them of the state of Mr. Walsh, whatever they might suppose to be his intention, whether they supposed he would, or would not appear, a case was made out which ought to stop their proceedings for the present. From the evidence given before them by the gentleman they had examined at their bar, it appeared that in a fortnight Mr. Walsh might attend in his place. He thought that the House was placed in that situation that they could not proceed immediately. When a member was ordered to attend in his place, and was unable to do so from ill health, they ought not to decide on his case till he was able to come down to the House. This he suggested, not to favour the individual, but for the sake of the general principle. He thought they must feel, that whatever might be the sentiments of that House, with respect to the offence of Mr. Walsh, whatever reason they might have to think that be would not attend, or that, attending, his defence could not be satisfactory, still it was their duty to guard themselves and posterity against a member's being called upon to attend when unable to do so, and condemned in his absence without a proper opportunity being afforded to him of meeting the charge to be preferred against him. Under all the circumstances of the case, it might probably be best to move the adjournment of the subject over the time which had been mentioned, as that within which it was probable Mr. Walsh would be able to attend in his place. He did not intend making a motion to that effect; but the hon. gentleman had wished to hear the sentiments of some one on the subject, and he had therefore thought proper to offer his.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, adopting the suggestion of the right hon. gentleman; then moved to adjourn the consideration of the case of Mr. Walsh to Tuesday fortnight.Mr. Bankes
 concurred with the right hon. gentleman in what he bad advanced with respect to the necessity of giving the person against whom a charge was to be made, a proper opportunity of meeting it.Mr. C. W. Wynn
1092 made some observations on the conduct of an hon. member, whose case had been before the House last session (Mr. Mansell Phillips), and against whom proceedings were stopped, inconsequence of some arrangements having been
1092Sir F. Burdett
 said, that when he saw the hon. member alluded to on the subject, he had promised to appear and to plead, which was all that the Petition desired. He had appeared, and had pleaded, and having done so, he (Mr. L.) had not thought it his business to look to the conduct of that hon. gentleman any farther.Mr. Lockhart
 directed a messenger to be called in to prove that the order of the House had been served on Mr. Walsh.The Speaker
1089 said the Serjeant was informed a medical gentleman was then in waiting to prove that Mr. Walsh was incapable of attending in his place from indisposition. Was it the pleasure of the House that he should be called in? The House assented. Mr. Cornwell Reynolds was then called in, and examined. In answer to the questions put to him, he stated himself to be acquainted with Mr. Walsh. He had been called upon to attend him on Saturday last. He had been in the habit of attending Mr. Walsh some years ago, but not latterly, till he was called upon to attend him on Saturday. He had last seen Mr. Walsh about two
1089The Speaker
 had now to inform the House, that he had received a farther letter from Mr. Walsh, in which that gentleman, though he intimated that he should not attend in his place, expressed a wish that the proceedings before the House, in his case, might not be delayed on that account; but at the same time stated it to be his hope that the evidence of his medical attendant would remove every objection to his former letters to him (the Speaker), being read to the House.The Speaker
10881087presented a Petition from the Catholics of the county of Tipperary. The presentation of this Petition was to him a most pleasing duty, because it proceeded not from the Catholics only, but had the support of every one of his constituents, whether Protestant or of any other religious persuasion. Before he should move that the Petition do he on the table, he begged leave to trouble the House with a few observations. It had been for a considerable time in his possession, but he thought it more prudent to defer its presentation until the period of the cessation of the restrictions on the Prince Regent should have arrived. This was merely according with the wishes of the Catholics themselves; for they did hope, and they had reason to hope, that some change of men as well as measures would then take place; but they had been disappointed, the "new era" had arrived, but their wishes bad not, unfortunately, found a reality in the choice which had been made. The peace and tranquillity of the empire was still without an anchor; the Catholics had been disappointed, and the country was in danger. Since, therefore, the change that the Irish people, and he along with them, had anticipated, had not taken place, he did not conceive himself justified in withholding the Petition any longer. The House had already heard from the intolerant minister, that should a favour able disposition towards the Catholic cause arise in the Prince Regent's mind, then he would make his bow and withdraw. The House heard this declaration, the like of which never was addressed, perhaps, in the history of the world, by a bigotted narrow principled minister to an enlightened Prince, or a high-minded generous people The hon. general then recomended to his countrymen not even yet to despair—not yet to cast away their last hope. Of one thing they might be assured, that their political friends would never desert them, as long as they pursued the constitutional course which they had hitherto followed. The wisdom of
10881087General Montague Mathew
11591158115711561155115411531152 said, that he did not rise to object to this motion from any apprehension that he entertained of enquiry, confident as he was that the distresses of the merchants and manufacturers, which had been so strongly alluded to on the other side, did not all arise from the Orders in Council; but he objected to the inquiry because it was not calculated to produce any possible benefit. He could not agree with his hon. friend, who had just sat down, that it would be expedient to go into this inquiry, if it were for no other purpose but to shew that no inquiry at all-were necessary. He was not surprized, however, at his hon. friend supporting it, because it was that species of motion which generally met with his approbation; indeed the motion was framed with a view to catch his hon. friend, and that description of gentlemen who might be called floating votes. He was surprised, however, at what had fallen from his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning) upon this occasion. If his right hon. friend was of opinion, and he was sure he was, that the Orders in Council were not only justifiable, but absolutely necessary, if his right hon. friend thought, and he was sure he did, that the distresses of the manufacturers, which had been brought forward as the grounds of the present motion, did not arise from the Orders in Council, he should
11591158115711561155115411531152The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1149114811471146114511441143114211411140 said, that having forborne to press himself on the attention of the House in competition with the hon. and learned gentleman, [Mr. Canning and Mr. Stephen had risen at the same moment, but Mr. Canning gave way] whose speech the House had recently heard, he felt the disadvantage under which he rose after the speech of that hon. and learned gentleman, in which he had introduced so much and such variety of matter not connected with the subject of discussion, if he should endeavour to bring back the attention of the House to the dry question upon which they were assembled to decide. He had listened to that hon. and learned gentleman with all that attention and de-
1149114811471146114511441143114211411140Mr. Canning
1150 considered it as a commercial question. That the hon. and learned gent, saw no difference between the Orders in Council and Licences, he was surprized at, for they were both of his own offspring. By means of licences the British officer was prevented from making captures. There was a great difference in the species of licences; those that were direct to France were very different from others, for they were reciprocal to both countries. The Licence trade abounded with frauds. There was not a consul in the world whose signature was not forged; and there were men in London, who, if they received a letter to-day, would be able in a few days to produce two or three letters so completely similar in hand-writing, water-mark, &c. that he who had wrote the original, could not distinguish it from the copies. The Americans suffered great hardships by the Orders in Council; they were obliged to send their ships into British ports, and pay a certain centage, and which, if they did, they were certain of confiscation in the enemy's ports. He defended the Orders in Council, as originally established, as perfectly justifiable; and had they been strictly adhered to, he bad no doubt they would ultimately have effected the purposes for which they were promulgated; but he regretted that any alteration in those Orders had taken place, as it had the effect of benefiting the colonies of our allies, while it reduced our own; as an elucidation of this, be instanced the case of the island of Cuba, from whence alone, during the last year
1150Mr. Marryat
1126llllllll112511241123112211211120ss11191118llllllll1117 expressed the sincere pleasure he felt that this important subject was about to undergo a full and impartial discussion, because he was persuaded that the more it was examined the more apparent would be the benefits resulting from the system which now received the sanction of government. However deficient he might be in eloquence, the facts he should adduce would be amply sufficient to subvert the fabric which it had cost the hon. and learned gentleman so much pains to raise. He was not disposed to deny that the condition of the manufacturers in various parts of the country was much to be commiserated, but their discontent did not arise so much from a want of work as from a diminution of wages. In Birmingham, particularly, a greater degree of calamity was felt than in any other town in the empire; because the trade of that place depended, almost more than any other, on the connection with America. But, when the hon. and learned gentleman proceeded to contend that these distresses were general, and being general, were produced by the Orders in Council, he wished to enquire, whence the hon. and learned gentleman had derived the information on which he founded his statement? In fact, the papers on the table, so far from supporting, directly contradicted the assertions of the hon. and learned gentleman. And here he felt it proper to observe, that the hon. and learned gentleman appeared very much disposed to object to the accuracy of Mr. Irving's figures, when they were unfavourable to his argument; but he was quite ready to deduce inferences from them, when he considered them as at all leaning to his side. He (Mr. Rose) was persuaded, that there never had been a fair question of doubt raised on the correctness of the Customhouse accounts, which were by no means justly liable to the observations made on them by the hon. and learned gent.1126llllllll112511241123112211211120ss11191118llllllll1117Mr. Rose
 stated that the licence system had given rise to repeated instances of perjury, as the clearances from foreign ports were all made on oath.The Hon. Mr. Herbert
 adverting to one part of the speech of his hon. friend who had just sat down, informed the House, that he had in his custody a Petition, signed by many thousands of the manufacturing population of Staffordshire, addressed to the Prince Regent, complaining of deep distress, and praying for relief. That he had informed the Secretary of State for the Home Department of this circumstance, and that that right hon. gentleman had offered to take the Petition from the noble lord, and present it himself to the Regent. This the noble lord said he had refused to do. He had consulted the petitioners thereupon, and received their directions to present the Petition in person, which he intended to do at the first levee, but that levee had not yet taken place, although three weeks had elapsed from the time at which he received the petition.Lord Granville Levison Gower,
11311130in toto112911281127 regarded the subject as one of so much importance, that he could not think he discharged his duty in that House, if he permitted it to pass without offering a few observations. The question seemed to be, not whether the Orders in Council should be repealed, but whether, from the general and evident distress in every part of the country, there must not be something radically wrong in our commercial system, which called for inquiry. This appeared to him more particularly the case, when we were told, as we had been by the right hon. gentleman, that our shipping, our trade, and every thing connected with them, were in a prosperous state. What that inquiry, however, would be, to what it would specifically lead, whether to establish the fact that the Orders in Council had completely failed in their original purpose, whether they were radically bad, or whether the licence system had arisen from them, was for the future consideration of the committee moved for by his honourable and learned friend. For himself, be had no hesitation in stating it as his opinion, that our first deviation from the strict line of sound policy, was when we issued those Orders, when we listened to the bravadoes of France, and fettered and interrupted neutral commerce by our retaliatory system. We had struck at American commerce, and we had substituted for it a French commerce, which the gentlemen on the ether side must well know. He decidedly condemned the sort of neutral trade, if it might be so called, which was now carried on; and if it were possible to substitute an American carrier for those sham neutral carriers, he thought it would be highly for the benefit of the country, an opinion which, he believed, none would be prepared to deny. In examining whether our Orders in Council had failed or not, it would be necessary to consider what was the professed object of their institution. We were, at that time, carrying on a good trade; but a neutral was also carrying on a good trade, and we hoped that our Orders in Council would suppress that neutral's trade, and transfer it all to ourselves. Had such been the case, however? We had, indeed, put an end to the trade of the neutral, but had we got it all for ourselves? We had
11311130in toto112911281127Mr. A. Baring
 took a directly opposite view of the question, considering the licence system as necessary, but the policy of the Orders in Council as erroneous. He felt himself called upon to support the motion, although he was by no means disposed to wish ill to the administration of his right hon. friend.Mr. Johnstone
 again observed, that he had been misunderstood by his hon. and learned friend.Mr. Brougham
 rose to explain. An insinuation had dropped from his hon. and learned friend in the course of his speech, as if he was a person who felt impatient at any reflections being thrown on the French emperor. He was not a little surprized at such an imputation, which was totally unfounded on any thing he had ever been in the habit of saying, or bad uttered that night. His hon. and learned friend must have completely misconceived, and therefore misrepresented him.Mr. Brougham
11131112111111101109l110811071106ad libitum1105ll11041103llll1102110111001099109810971096109510941093 rose and said: Sir, I now rise to bring under the consideration of the House the state of the commerce and manufactures of the country, and in contemplating the extent and diversified nature of this vast and complicated subject with the great variety of detail to which it naturally leads, I am tempted to believe that if I had anticipated an inquiry so various and extensive, I should have paused before I undertook so laborious a task. But as I shall have ample occasion for all the indulgence of the House in the course of the exposition which I am about to submit to them, I shall preface it no farther than to say, that the object of my motion is to induce it to go into an inquiry on the state of the
11131112111111101109l110811071106ad libitum1105ll11041103llll1102110111001099109810971096109510941093Mr. Brougham
1163 in reply, animadverted on the various arguments that had been adduced against his motion. It seemed that we were not now to press upon the enemy with a fair military view of overcoming him; in prosecuting which object we might unluckily be compelled to bear hard upon neutral rights. We were no longer following such a gallant, soldier-like instinct; but attempting with the sordid, trading, pedlar-like desires of retail-dealers, to undersell, and force America to help us in underselling a rival shopkeeper. It became parliament to stand forward between the country and the ruinous effects of such a mean and profligate policy as this, and to save it from the last of disasters, into which the Prince Regent's ministers were hurrying it—a war with America. But was there nothing else, to make the House still more anxious to inquire than they might have been a short time ago? Had no other circumstance transpired in the latter part of the debate? Did they bear in mind the statements of his noble friend, the member for Yorkshire, and the noble
1163Mr. Brougham,
 denied having any intention of throwing such an imputation on his hon. and learned friend. But he certainly understood him to have expressed disapprobation of the warmth with which the conduct of the French emperor had at times been spoken.Mr. Stephen
113911381137113611351134l11331132 regretted that any discussion should have arisen on the subject of our present situation with America, a rupture with which power he Was most anxious should be avoided, and he was sorry the last hon. member had not, on this subject, followed the example held
113911381137113611351134l11331132Mr. Stephen
11621161l1160 maintained that there never was a speech more calculated to mislead the House than that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. gentleman had told them that the questions they were called on to decide were, whether the Orders in Council were to be maintained? Whether the licensing system was to be continued? Whether this country had acted justly or unjustly towards America? And whether the Milan and Berlin Decrees were or were not repealed? And he had finished a grand climax by slating, that the French government was no longer possessed of revenues to carry on the war.—But he would tell the House, and the right hon. gentleman, that they were not called on to decide any
11621161l1160Mr. Whitbread
1151 was of opinion, that whether the question was considered in a political or in a commercial view, they ought to go into the committee. The motion was such, that all who had doubts as to the results of the Orders or of the Licence trade, ought to vote for it. He was originally convinced by the arguments of his learned relative (Mr. Stephen) of the justice and policy of the Orders: but now that there existed great discontent, which was attributed to the injurious effects of those Orders, no conduct could be wiser for parliament, than to meet the discontent" by inquiry, and shew to the people, that whether their complaints were founded or not, they should at least be attended to, and that they should see that they underwent a solemn investigation. If it was true that the Orders had been advantageous to the country, then their advocates could not fear inquiry, for it would only display their justice and expediency. The people of England had good sense enough to be satisfied with the result of investigation, if it could be fairly proved that the Orders in Council were beneficial to their trade. They would then ascribe their distresses to the evils inseparable from all human systems in time of war. He insisted on the immoralities of the Licence trade, and said he was astonished to hear an hon. baronet denying their existence. He then argued on the contracted nature of
1151Mr. Wilberforce
 denied that there existed any grounds for the alleged immoralities of the licence system. If trade was to be carried on at all under the present circumstances, such a system was not only proper but indispensible.Sir Charles Price
 rose merely to state, that he was exactly in the same predicament as the noble lord.Lord Milton
 replied, that in the absence of his right hon. friend all he could state was, that he believed the ordinary course of presenting petitions was on levee days, and that as yet no levee had been appointed. He had no doubt, however, that had any special application been made on the subject, there would have been no difficulty in advising his royal highness the Prince Regent to receive the petitions alluded to. It was rather singular, that the hon. gentleman should ask him what somebody else had done, with whose department he was not connected.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 denied that he had any disposition to be facetious on the subject; nor was he at all aware that be had been so. All that he had said was, that it was really extraordinary to inquire of him what course of proceeding had been adopted by another officer of the State. As far as he was aware of that course, he had communicated it to the hon. gentleman. The hon. gentleman was correct in saying that it was the duty of his right hon. friend, as a member of parliament, to be present in his place in the House, but he conceived that on such a day, when no public business of importance-was expected, and when the inquiries of the hon. gentleman could not by possibility be anticipated; the absence of his right hon. friend could not be imputed to him as a very serious offence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that to-morrow, his right hon. friend would be present to answer for himself.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the right hon. gentleman would perhaps communicate the conversation to his right hon. friend, and that to-morrow he would be able to afford additional information on the subject.Mr. Whitbread
1166 remarked, that the right hon. gentleman was pleased to be facetious; but it was the duty of the Secretary of State, as a member of parliament, to attend in his place; and in his absence, it was the right of any other member of parliament to ask for information from those who it was probable could afford it on any subject upon which the public interest demanded explanation. He repeated, that he wished to know, whether the Secretary of State for the Home Department had communicated to the Prince, Regent the fact that there were petitions in the hands of different noblemen and gentlemen, which they were desirous of presenting to the Regent? For had such a communication been made, he could not conceive it possible that the Regent would not have been advised to receive those petitions. It was rather a fearful circumstance, and one which by no means ought to be treated in the light way in which the Tight hon. gentleman seemed disposed to treat it, after the subject had been so long excluded from the constitu-
1166Mr. Whitbread
, in consequence of the extraordinary facts which had come out in the course of the discussion last night, thought it his duty to inquire into the cause of the difficulty of obtaining access by petition to his royal highness the Prince Regent? The right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department was not in his place, but probably his right hon. friend would be enabled to inform him whether the Secretary of State had represented to the Regent that there were petitions ready to be presented to him, and in that case why his Royal Highness had not been advised to receive them?Mr. Whitbread
1170 presented a Petition from certain Debtors, in the Fleet Prison, praying relief. An idea, he observed, had gone abroad, that having made an alteration in the Lords' Act, it was his intention to afford relief to those unfortunate persons, by introducing another Bill; and in consequence of that idea, he had received a vast number of letters, full of suggestions for their benefit. He had no intention of pursuing the subject any further, but he wished that some gentleman would examine the various acts lately passed for their relief, and see if some alteration of the provisions could not be made so as to include those persons now soliciting relief. Though an Act had passed within the last twelve months upon the subject, he understood the different gaols in the kingdom were fuller than before it passed. It was necessary, therefore, he thought, that something should be done to remedy the evil. A Petition, he understood, had been put into the hands of a noble member of the other House (lord Redesdale), who was fully competent to frame a Bill for the
1170Lord Folkestone
117311721171 presented a Petition of the mayor, sheriffs, and commonalty of Cork, setting forth:117311721171Mr. Hutchinson
 observed, that in consequence of the conversation which had passed between him and the hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn) on the last evening, respecting the Lord Steward of the Household, he had inquired, and found that very considerable doubts were entertained that the oaths taken by members before the deputy and the other officers would not be valid, and consequently their seats would be void. That being the case, he should propose to bring in a Bill to indemnify those persons who had acted, not from any wish to infringe the law, but through ignorance. The House, under these circumstances, he hoped, would have no objection, when the Bill was brought in, to pass it through with as much rapidity as possible, in order that no inconvenience might arise.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was convinced that there was no neglect to be imputed to the members for taking their seats, none on the part of the commissioners for administering the oaths, but that the neglect had been on the part of those who did not recommend the filling up of the office of Lord Steward much earlier.Mr. Wynn
 the messenger, then appeared at the bar.Mr. John Skelton,
 Yes, Sir.Mr. Skelton.
 At eleven o'clock yesterday morning.Mr. Skelton.
 Yes, Sir. I saw him.Mr. Skelton.
1179117811771176 then rose and observed, that in bringing forward, which he should do, a charge of a most serious nature against a member of that House, followed up as it would be by the severest punishment which the House could inflict, he should think himself highly blameable if he proceeded in such a manner as to set a precedent, which in future times might place an innocent man in trouble, and open the door to ground enquiries into individual transactions between man and man, by creating inquisitorial powers in that House to examine into their private concerns; but such was not his intention, for the Letter from Mr. Walsh, which he had moved for, and which had been printed, (see p. 940), was not of the nature of a private document, it had been publicly read in court, and therefore he might be fairly justified in assuming that he did not intrench upon any private rights. He agreed with those who thought that judicial power should be assumed by the House of Commons as seldom as possible, nor was the present the first opportunity that had been afforded him of expressing the opinion, how little suited were its functions for such a purpose. Much less would he wish that questions of individual property, or of general character should be there discussed, since it ill suited the dignity of the House, that through it, means should be afforded to private ma-
1179117811771176Mr. Bankes
1187l1186 conceived it to be the prac-
1187l1186Mr. Hume
1191****l*l1190l1189l1188 said, that he was very far from being a stickler for what were called the privileges of parliament, but certainly if there was a privilege or a power in any body or assembly, less disputable than another, he conceived it to be that of declaring any one of the individuals of which they were composed unfit and unworthy of associating amongst them: it was at all events a power, which, when compared with the other extraordinary privileges assumed by parliament, appeared to him to be, of all others, the least liable to abuse; because if any member was expelled from any motives of party zeal, or personal persecution, a remedy would be open to him in an appeal to his constituents, who, if they thought differently of his conduct, could unquestionably restore him to his seat. This must be the case if elections were what the constitution meant they should be—fair and open, and general throughout the country: if the people who paid the taxes really sent to that House the persons whom the constitution entrusted with the province of levying them, why then there could be no difficulty, because there could be little fear of the people not confirming the sentence of expulsion passed on any gross defaulter, by refusing to re-elect so unworthy a representative. But since the anomaly of private boroughs, since the introduction of persons into that House, who came in professedly to vote at the beck of the borough proprietor, a great difficulty arose—if one of those persons was expelled, might he not be sent back to the House upon the same, or some other borough interest; or if he had purchased a seat in
1191****l*l1190l1189l1188Sir Francis Burdett
* said, he could not see how the House could punish a man merely for moral guilt, unless they went on a broader scale, and visited the higher crimes: otherwise they might act severely to the poor, and mildly towards the rich. He did not dispute that Mr. Walsh's act might be highly criminal; but it was not so in the eye of the law. The indefinite epithet "disgraceful" was emphatically attached to it: he did not deny its propriety; but how many different opinions might there not exist as to the applications of that term, according to the different feelings of different people? He recollected in Mrs. Macauley's History, an anecdote of Henry Martin, one of the regicides, who was caned in the lobby of the House of Commons by the earl of Northumberland, for opening a letter of his lordship's at the post office*Mr. Herbert
11931192** rose for the purpose of
11931192**Mr. Abercromby
1194 thought, that the subject was surrounded with difficulties of a perplexing nature: on the one side, there was a natural wish that the House of Commons should not suffer in character from one of its members; and on the other side, there was a difficulty in making a new precedent. In the case of the Charitable Corporation which had been cited, the money was not considered as public money, but as the money of individuals. In all the records we had of the proceedings upon that subject, we should find on reading the debates, that it was never stated as an embezzlement of public money, but merely as a breach of trust. It would be hard to call the money that the South Sea Company got hold of, public money; it was private money the property of individuals. The hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, had laid some stress on the cases of persons convicted and punished for offences contrary to law. He would, however, state on the other hand, that in the case of Mr. Wall, who had been expelled for perjury, there had been no punishment: and in the more recent case of Mr. Atkinson, no judgment had been given. In those cases, therefore, there had been no legal disabilities created: and yet the House expelled the member on the ground that it was the infamy of the offence, and not the punishment, which made the person unworthy of being a member. As to the practice of saving a point of law for the decision of the judges, although it was a common practice in civil cases, yet it was not common in criminal cases; and he believed that it was done in this case at the particular request of Mr. Walsh's counsel. If there had been a special verdict, and it had come before the House of Lords, (but it was not likely that the prosecutor would have brought it there), he did not think a serious delay was to be apprehended. He believed that criminal appeals took the precedence of civil appeals; and in the case of Hart and White, there did not appear to be any great delay. An hon. gentleman seemed to consider Mr. Walsh's letter as an extenuation of his offence. Now, it appeared to him
1194Mr. C. W. Wynn
1198 wished to reply to some observations that had been made, and to state the grounds on which his opinion was formed. It had been said, that the guilt was not proved, as it was not followed up by legal judgment. He would agree, that conviction having been taken subject to the opinion of the judges, and that opinion having been against the felony, Mr. Walsh should be considered as having been acquitted. He agreed also, that the notoriety of the transaction should make no impression, the question being not whether the transaction was notorious, but whether it constituted that kind of offence for which the individual ought to be removed from that House. As to the manner in which the question had been brought before the judge, it was strictly according to the practice of the last sixty years, and was preferable to the course of special verdict, as being less expensive and more expeditious: it was also in the present case the wish of the prisoner. He was sure the learned persons engaged in such investigations, would deprecate any interpretation of their opinions as given on the case, in any other light than that of an acquittal. So far he had no difficulty, but upon what remained he felt considerable difficulty indeed. There was no course of proceeding to which he could compare it but that of Corporations. It was well known that no person was permitted to remain in those bodies, who was guilty of any flagrant offences; there were different offences for which corporators were liable to be disfranchised, and here he should just observe in passing, that Mr. Walsh's crime did not amount to a misdemeanour, as he was not brought in guilty of a felony. If a corporator was guilty of any offence which might be tried in the courts, they did not proceed to act until he was legally convicted; but if he was guilty of any offence for which no legal trial could be instituted, such as offences against the body itself, they might still expel him. He did not find that the same course was pursued in that House. There were instances in which the House first expelled, and then directed prosecutions against its members, which was surely enough to shew that they did not proceed in the same manner as corporations. He could not conceive that the ground upon which they proceeded to expulsion was that of the offence being triable, for if that was the case, they would order the trial first. What, then, was the nature of the offences for which
1198The Attorney General
 declared himself in favour of the motion, and said that he should certainly vote for the expulsion of the unworthy member.Mr. Hawkins Browne
1200 said, he should not feel himself justified in giving a silent vote, though he had little expectation of throwing a new light on the subject. The temperate manner in which it had been discussed, and the total exclusion of all party-feeling, left no doubt that whatever determination the House might come to, it would reflect no discredit on them. The public would not ascribe the rejection of the motion upon such principles as had been stated, to any corrupt motives; nor would they deem his expulsion, if that was resolved on, to party violence and injustice. As to the case of the Charitable Corporation, there was no legal conviction. Yet the House did not rest with expulsion, but directed legal prosecution. He very much doubted whether in that case a legal conviction followed: but whether or not, the House did not wait for it They had expelled in that case, which was not a case of public money. He agreed that they must take the opinion of the Judges, with respect to Mr. Walsh, as a record of acquittal, but as an acquittal on a special verdict, and incorporated with the letter of the Judge, and the letter of Mr. Walsh himself. They had then a special verdict of the facts, by which it appeared, on the authority of a jury, that he had premeditatedly obtained money into his hands, in a case of trust, for the purpose of abusing it. The House would therefore have to decide, whether that was such a case as ought to disqualify him from sitting in that House. It was a verdict of acquittal, but it was not a verdict which left things in the dark. He agreed with his right hon. friend in doubting whether, if it was not a case of felony, it would amount to a misdemeanour. He rather thought it would not; but he could not think, that because an act of parlialiament did not make a moral crime a legal one, the House of Commons should be prevented from taking cognizance of it. There were many cases of breach of trust,
1200The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied. He contended that the principle upon which the House had proceeded on all their precedents, was the guilt of the individual, and not the legal establishment of a crime. He then took a review of several cases. With respect to Boyd and Benfield, he was astonished how any person could conceive their case bore any analogy to the present He really could not see the danger of laying down a precedent from the possibility of future abuse; because, before proceeding to expulsion, it was necessary to have a fraudulent subject to work upon; and he could hardly conceive that any member would become guilty of moral guilt to please any man.Mr. Bankes
 replied, that he had communicated to his royal highness the Prince Regent the letter which he had received from the noble lord on the subject; but, previous to that communication, he had answered the noble lord's letter, by informing him that the usual mode of presenting such petitions was at the levee, but that no levee day having been appointed, to avoid delay, if the noble lord would transmit the petition to him, he would immediately lay it before his royal highness the Prince Regent.Mr. Secretary Ryder
, previous to putting the question, suggested to the hon. member that the documents to which he had referred, should be entered as read on this day. Which was accordingly done. The question was then put.The Speaker
—I have now to inform the House, that I have received another Letter from Mr. Walsh, stating, "his physical inability to appear to-day, or to face the House on this occasion; his hope that his former letters may be read, in which he does not mean to justify but only to palliate his offence; and his desire that the House will now proceed to decide on his case."The Speaker.
 Did you see him?The Speaker.
 At what hour?The Speaker.
 Did you serve the order on Mr. Walsh yesterday?The Speaker.
 directed the messenger who served the notice for attendance, to be called to the Bar.The Speaker
 supported the motion, upon the ground that it was a case of great atrocity, the person against whom the fraud was committed being the friend and patron of the person who committed it. He hoped the House would not disgrace themselves by having amongst them so degraded a delinquent. There was no society, however insignificant, who did not exercise the power of expulsion in atrocious cases, and though he did not pretend to nicer feelings than others, he should feel most awkward on coming in contact with such a person.Mr. C. Adams
 said, that he was not aware of having received any other communication himself from the noble lord, than that which he had already mentioned.Mr. Ryder
 observed, that the noble lord had stated the other night, that having apprised his constituents of the communication made to him by the right hon. gentleman, they had instructed him to present the petition to the Prince Regent in person. Had the right hon. gentleman stated this circumstance to his Royal Highness?Mr. Whitbread
 seeing a right hon. gentleman in his place, would take the liberty to ask him whether he had communicated to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that a noble lord, a member of that House (lord G. L. Gower), had in his hands a petition signed by some thousands of persons concerned in the Staffordshire Potteries, which he was anxious to present to his Royal Highness?Mr. Whitbread,
1196 begged leave to offer a few words before the question passed to a vote. This was one of the instances which proved how necessary it was for men to guard against first impressions; for there was no man who in the first instance did not think that Mr. Walsh's conduct to sir T. Plomer ought to be visited with expulsion. But the more he thought on the subject, the more he was inclined to conclude that it ought not. In his opinion, be ought not to be expelled as a punishment, but kept in his place, and obliged to attend every day. The hap-
1196Mr. Whitbread
1199 expressed his fear that the House might be too anxious to relieve themselves from the embarrassment of an association with such an individual. There was no function in the exercise of which
1199Mr. Elliot
1195 thought the subject of most grave and serious importance; but the argument being already exhausted, he could not hope to add to the information of the House. He was surprized to hear
1195Mr. Lamb
11841183llll1182non constat11811180 stated, that he had so much respect for the hon. gentleman who
11841183llll1182non constat11811180Sir Arthur Piggott
 hoped no one who heard him could so far have misunderstood him, as to suppose that he meant to say there was nothing criminal in the conduct of Mr. Walsh. What he had said was, that the crime did not come within his jurisdiction; that it was not the crime it had been said to be in a legal point of view.Sir A. Piggott
confitentem reum1185 acknowledged the great legal abilities and qualifications of the last speaker, yet thought that it was impossible they could be more misplaced or misapplied than on the present occasion. The hon. and learned gentleman had stated, that an arbitrary discretion should not be allowed to the House. If the hon. and learned gentleman meant that the proceedings of the House should not be suffered to be capricious and vindictive, he fully agreed with him; but if he meant that the House should be bound by strict technical rules, he entirely dissented from that opinion, and had a very different idea of the constitution of parliament. As to immoralities committed by members of parliament, he did not see how they affected the present case. Such immoralities might exist without injury to the public official character of a man, but the conduct of Mr. Walsh was marked with peculiar turpitude; and breaches of trust were precisely of a nature to affect the characters of members of parliament, as members. He felt no desire of purifying the House; and had he conceived that the present motion was the result of ministerial influence, or party feeling, or private spleen, he would not have given it his support: but it stood on different grounds,—on transactions which had passed in a public court of justice. The hon. and learned gentleman had, indeed, worked himself up to say, that because this was not a felony, it was no crime. He had stated, that there were no facts on the record, yet that record contained an indictment which in seven different counts alleged express charges of stealing and converting bills, notes, &c.: and the jury had found the prisoner guilty on such charges. Surely, here were facts; nor did he see how a special verdict could furnish more. The Chief Baron, too, had stated that the facts were proved, though on a question put, the judges had agreed that it was no larceny, and a pardon had consequently been granted,—The hon. and learned gentleman had said, that the offence of Mr. Walsh would not work a forfeiture of his goods and chattels: but what sort of argument was that? Was not his character forfeited, and was not that completely proved? The argument went to this length;—a man was charged with a felony: he was not guilty of that, and, therefore, he was entirely innocent. But
confitentem reum1185Mr. Bathurst
 remarked, that men did not enlist to go to school, and thought it would injure the recruiting service if an idea went abroad, that they were to be forced to attend.Colonel Dillon
 stated it not to have been the intention of the duke of York to make the attendance of the men compulsory, though much advantage was expected from the establishment of schools in the army.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was not for the immediate and absolute abolition of corporal punishment; he had been glad of the clause of last year as tending gradually to rescind it; and thought that it ought to be suffered to drop of itself. He had no doubt but that in three years we should not hear a solitary instance of such punishment, and suggested the idea of forming, in imitation of the French, colonial corps for condemned soldiers.Colonel Dillon
 observed, that if the hon. and learned gentleman had had any clause to propose, then the discussion which had now taken place would not have been lost; but, as it was, he must express his sorrow that so much time had been spent without any effective progress having been made in the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the subject entitled to serious consideration.General Tarleton
 strongly censured the idea of bidding the army of the country look up to Mr. Cobbett and receive their instructions from him, as if he could know more of military matters than those who have spent their lives in the service.General Tarleton
 said, that, from seventeen years experience of home service, he could state, that all the colonels of regiments with whom he had had intercourse, had agreed in the indispensible necessity of corporal punishment. He was himself averse to it, but thought that the awe and dread of it were very effectual to preserve military discipline.Colonel Duckett
 wished to know if it was the intention to introduce any clause to do away military flogging?Mr. Brougham
corps d'elite1205 said, that as it was not probable he should be present to take any part in the discussion which was soon to take place upon the subject of military punishments, he begged leave to take that opportunity of entering his solemn protest against the practice of punishment by flogging. As a punishment, it was absurd and inconsistent with every end of punishment—it was equally incompetent to reform the culprit, or to deter others. The greater part of the leading military authorities of the country had all been-unanimous in condemning the practice. Sir Robert Wilson, general Stuart, general Money, and a variety of others, the most experienced and distinguished officers in the service, had employed all their talents and influence to root out the practice from the army. It had its principle in torture, and therefore must always be most objectionable, for two reasons. First, that it could not fail to turn the feelings of the people witnessing the horrid spectacle, in favour of the sufferer, however criminal; and next, that it had a direct and inevitable tendency to brutalize the people habituated to the practice of it. In stating this, he mentioned nothing but what had been already stated; His object, however, at the present was, rather to enter his protest generally against the practice, than to enter then into any argumentative view of the question.—There was another point to which he wished to advert before he sat down. There was, he believed, no clause in the present act, limiting the power of the crown as to the enlistment of foreign troops. No one could read the Convention act without seeing and admiring the jealous precaution of our ancestors at the time of the Revolution, who would not suffer any denizen, not even a naturalized alien, to hold any place of trust or influence under the crown. It would be well to see something like the same spirit more active now than it appeared to be, now when foreigners were not only finding their way into regiments, but into commissions and commands; even the 10th light dragoons, "the Prince's Own," hitherto made up of English subjects, was now filling with foreigners of every description. This once English corps might now be said to have been Germanized. Germans of all desriptions—Germans who were prisoners of war, had been seduced
corps d'elite1205Mr. Brougham
1207 said, that he never meant that if flogging was abolished, no punishment at all should be substituted in its place. He never meant to hold out such a bribe to mutiny and disorder: far from it. It was not the degree, but the kind of severity he reprobated. For instance, instead of running the risk of brutalizing a whole regiment, by witnessing the spectacle of a wretch gradually sinking under the tedious torture of a thousand lashes, who had been guilty of mutiny, he would shoot him at once. And as for crimes not worthy of death, could there not be devised a variety of ways of punishing a soldier, even upon actual service? He had been accused of speaking against this odious system, in terms of unwarrantable invective. His language might have been too Strong for the delicacy of some gentlemen; but had it been stronger, it must have been too weak to express his abhorrence of this mode of punishment. But the hon. and learned gentleman had la-
1207Mr. Brougham
 said, the action commenced against him was not for confining a man who had disobeyed his order to go to school, but it was for putting under imprisonment one who had incited others to disobey his orders.Mr. Whitbread
1202 wished to propose a clause, which however he hoped the hon. gentleman opposite would frame, as he would do it much better than he could. Schools had been established in the army, in order to qualify the soldiers for noncommissioned officers. He had understood the officer could order the men to attend such schools, but a learned judge
1202Mr. Whitbread
, before the agitation of the question that day, had never heard the legality of an officer ordering his men to attend, doubted by any lawyer or officer with whom he had conversed. The noble lord gave it up in a legal point of view altogether, but he believed he would not find an officer who was not of opinion that he ought to have power to punish disobedience to such an order, as well as disobedience to any other. Had he known that it was to be left optional to the soldier to attend the schools established, he should have paused before he consented to the vote proposed for their support.Mr. Whitbread
 said, the order from the Horse Guards directed the establishing of schools; and an officer was placed in a disagreeable situation, if, when he directed the men to attend such schools they might refuse to do so.Mr. Whitbread
 was of opinion, that however advantageous it might be to the men to attend, they ought not to be forced to go to school.Mr. Frankland
 admitted that if it was ordered at the Horse Guards that the men should be sent to school, that order ought to be obeyed as much as any other, and disobedience punished accordingly. It was however unnecessary to introduce a clause into the Mutiny Bill on the subject, as when such an order was issued, disobedience could be punished under the act as it at present stood, without adding to it the clause proposed.Mr. Manners Sutton
1206 said, he should not then enter into the question of the necessity or impolicy of corporal punishment; but he should distinctly state that it had not entered into his contemplation to introduce a clause into the present Bill for the total abolition of Bogging. He thought it impracticable to abolish it altogether. What had been already done by the clause introduced into the Mutiny act last year, had succeeded considerably in making the practice less general—of which he would give to the House a conclusive proof. From January 1811, to December 1811, both inclusive, there had been but eight sentences for flogging by general courts martial, and, what was still more remarkable, of those eight, but one had occurred since March, the time at which the clause passed, and the other seven had taken place in the months preceding March; and of the whole eight but one had been inflicted—and that one had been offered to be commuted for general service, and was refused—the man preferring to undergo the 700 lashes rather than so commute. But he should be glad to know, what gentlemen would substitute in place of flogging? Imprisonment had been spoken of; but how could imprisonment be resorted
1206Mr. Manners Sutton
1208 repeated that those public animadversions upon military punishment had been, to his knowledge, gross exaggerations, and as for the happy abatement in the practice of flogging, he could not help thinking, notwithstanding the hon. and learned gentleman's vehement declamation, that that change was at least to be as fairly attributed to the judi-
1208Mr. Manners Sutton
 felt extremely hurt that the indiscreet language of the hon. and learned gentleman should go out to the public, as bidding the army look up to Mr. Cobbett for redress instead of their own officers. (Hear, hear)Sir George Warrender
1209 called the attention of the Committee to this subject, as practiced in Ireland and Scotland, where, contrary to the practice in England, soldiers were liable to be billeted in private families. This, he stated, had been found to be a very serious and oppressive burden, even when fairly and equally laid on; but, in the mode in which it was occasionally administered, it had been experienced to be an evil hardly capable of endurance. Large sums, it was well known, were in many instances, paid rather than suffer soldiers to be billeted on private families; and the effect of this had been such, that, in many instances, soldiers bad fallen upon, devices, to get themselves billeted on persons, who, they knew, would pay any money to procure lodgings for them elsewhere; thus subjecting those persons to grievous and uncalled for burdens. This was peculiarly the case with respect to Quakers, whom he had known to have soldiers billeted upon them three times for once in proportion to their neighbours. This was a collusion, which from what he
1209Sir J. Newport
 could not understand how the substitution of death for flogging was rendering the military code less sanguinary than it was at present represented to be.Lord Palmerston
1204 said it was not, but that the regulation of last session, leaving the
1204Lord Palmerston
 observed, that the subject was entitled to serious consideration: but to attend the schools had not been considered as any part of military duty. Schools had certainly been established, and a provision made for maintaining them in the Army Estimates, this was done, that those wishing to avail themselves of such an advantage might do so, but still to attend or not to attend had been left wholly optional to the parties. In almost every instance, where an individual was qualified to hold the situation of a non-commissioned officer he would be happy to avail himself of the advantage held out to him by these schools, and therefore it was as well to leave it optional for him to attend.Lord Palmerston
1215 rose with a wish to add a few observations to those which he had already made on the first introduction of the Bill. He felt that the measure was not such as the House ought to adopt. It went to effect, by penal enactments, what every individual, with an ordinary degree of circumspection was able to do for himself, by using proper caution in the choice of his agents and attornies. He believed that the original intention of the framer of the Bill had been to make the offence of embezzling securities a felony, but that he had been deterred from going to that length by the consideration, that in that case the civil claim would merge in the criminal prosecution. But he did not see how the case was much mended by making
1215Mr. Morris
 supported the second reading, on the principle, that the magnitude of the evil having been generally acknowledged, the rejection of the Bill, in the present instance; would amount to a confession, that the House could find no remedy to it. The Bill, in its present state, might be imperfect, but it might be improved in a committee. For instance, the inconveniencies apprehended as to Chancery suits, and which he thought greatly exaggerated, might be totally done away. In short, he did not see how the House could refuse going into a committee on a measure, intended to remedy an evil so generally felt.Mr. Drummond
 did not wish to divide the House, but hoped that some further delay would be granted. From consultations he had held with some friends of the learned profession, he was desirous to have as full an attendance as possible on the committee, and hoped that this Bill would not pass as a common enclosure or private Bill.Mr. Morris
 took that opportunity of stating, that he was sorry the Bill had once more come before the House. It had already produced had effects, and the communications he had received from Nottingham magistrates stated, that since the introduction of it, every source of information was completely shut up.Mr. Wynn
 said, that the Bill had been introduced as the only measure likely to put an end to these disgraceful disturbances. At the same time he did not know what sources of information the terror of that Bill could have shut up, as the characteristic of that insurrection was, from the beginning, that no information whatever could be procured.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 explained, that he meant private information.Mr. Wynn
 confirmed Mr. Wynn's statements, and added, that a material change of sentiment, in respect to that Bill, had taken place in Nottingham since its first introduction.Mr. J. Smith
 stated again, that no information of any kind, public or private, had ever reached government on the subject of those riots.Mr. Secretary Ryder
1217 said, that the gentlemen on the other side were arguing as if the Bill had been intended to procure information which could not be
1217The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know what part of the grant was really for stationary.Mr. Bankes
ll1219 wished for information on this subject. The amount of the sum voted for this purpose in 1798, which was a year of disturbance and civil war in Ireland
ll1219Mr. Hutchinson
 said, he was anxious to learn from the right hon. gentleman, whether it was in the contemplation of the Irish government to take advantage of the new system of education, by which 180,000 children might be educated at an expence not exceeding that which 2,430 cost now? If this plan were adopted, the whole population of Ireland might be educated in the course of a few years. He begged leave to suggest, that the commissioners might select one or two boys, from each of the Charter-schools, who could be sent to England to learn the new system, and who could be thus qualified to act as teachers in the different schools, which it was his wish to see established.Mr. Hume
 said, he had merely thrown out the suggestion for the consideration of the committee, and was still of opinion that much benefit might be derived from the adoption of the new plan of education.Mr. Hume
1228 said, that he was prepared to resist this enlargement of the original grant; and if this had been the first time of proposing the grant itself, he did not hesitate to say that he would vote against it. He did not wish to debar the professors of any religion of its most enlarged and liberal toleration, but he was not for giving a hostile religion the power of making proselytes, and this he conceived
1228Mr. Secretary Ryder
l declared, that he never felt more astonishment nor indignation than he did at hearing what had just fallen from the right hon. gentleman. The right hon. gentleman argued against the principle of educating the Irish Catholic clergy, when he must have recollected that Maynooth College was founded during the most violent period of Irish history, and when Europe began to be in hostility against these countries. The Irish Catholic clergy must have been educated' at home or no where. The right hon. gentleman did not appear to consider in what an ungracious situation he was placing the House. At this particular moment, such a paltry sum as 8,000lColonel Dillon
 (of Kerry) supported the enlarged grant. He denied, that any system of proselytism had been promoted by the establishment of Maynooth College. There were six converts from the Catholics to every one from amongst the Protestants.Mr. Herbert
1229l opposed the Amendment, not because be considered the enlargement of any consequence in an economical point of view, but because he was against the principle of the grant altogether. At the same time, from the commencement of this establishment, parliament had granted for its support about 160,0001229lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
1233l1232 observed, that while he and his colleagues were accused of innovation, the charge preferred against them was founded on the fact of their having resisted innovation. The grant proposed for Maynooth college had been regularly granted from 1801 to 1806, without any alteration being made; but in 1807, when the then administration were doing every thing in their power to encourage the Roman Catholic religion (in
1233l1232The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not wish to keep up the conversation, but could not avoid observing, that the previous administration having before, most prudently and wisely, forgone the question, he had thought, that upon the present occasion the noble lords would feel no greater difficulty than they had before experienced.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 adverted emphatically to the alteration in the circumstances of Ireland, which had taken place with the times. Had no change been produced by four years of continued oppression on every trifling occasion? Had not the appointment of a tight hon. gentleman (Dr. Duigenan) to be a privy counsellor, or the selection of the directors of the Bank of Ireland, circumstances in themselves of little importance, shewn the temper and spirit by which ministers had been actuated towards the sister kingdom? Did it follow, that because in 1S06 the subject of the concession to the Catholics might be safely postponed, that in the present condition of Ireland it could now be deferred without incurring the most imminent danger?Mr. Wynn
 then rose and said that upon a question of so great importance to the empire at large, he had already thought it his duty to give notice, of his mention to move for a Call of the House, in order that there might be as large an assembly as possible of the members, to discuss and decide on that subject. He was aware that it had been stated, that this motion would meet with the general, if not the unanimous support of the country; but he remained of the same opinion which he had before entertained and expressed, that those who indulged in such sentiments were deceived. The more and the deeper he could dive into the opinions and feelings of the majority of the people of this country, the more he was convinced that the measure proposed was one which would, in all its stages, meet with their disapprobation. He had no objection to accede to the proposed postponement; but if the discussion were fixed for the 14th, he should content himself with giving notice, that he should move the Call of the House on Monday, the 13th of April,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l spoke at length on the impolicy of ministers in not fixing a large depot in the centre of the country (as he had advised five years ago), capable of containing equipments of every kind for 200,000 men. In the Scheldt and the Texel, Buonaparte had thirty sail of the line and men to man them, and if he should be able, by any means, to land 10, 15, or 20,000 men in England, we had no means of expelling them from the country, though the expence of our army would this year cost us near 59,000,000lGeneral Tarteton
 observed, that the amendment of the Lords was, that the offence should be punished by fine 'or' imprisonment. In fact, they had declared, that in some cases, at the discretion of the judges, there should be no fine; whereas the Commons had decided, that, in every case, there should be a fine. He stated, that the constant practice of the House was the rejection of any amendment from the Lords which interfered with any branch of public revenue.The Speaker
 said, that Weedon Beck might contain pistols perhaps for so many men; but there ought to be at least 100 pieces of cannon also; and besides, Weedon Beck was too near the metropolis. He complained that all the horse artillery were on the coast.General Tarleton
 agreed in the principles laid down by his hon. and learned friend, but thought it possible to obviate his objections. He himself intended, should the Bill be suffered to go to a committee, to move for a clause limiting the power of prosecution to six months, or twelve months, after the commitment of the offence. This, he conceived, would put equity suits totally out of the question.Mr. Wilson
1224 said, that having been referred to by the right hon. gentleman, he rose merely to observe, that the commissioners of education in Ireland had made an extremely good report; but it was not within the purview of their commission to suggest or follow up any new plan for conducting the charter schools in a way differing from their original institution. He must say, however, that since the report of the commissioners of inquiry in 1788, these schools were very much improved, both as to the health and cleanliness of the children; and that it was much better to make ample provision for their maintenance, than to defeat their object by a parsimonious one. The price
1224Mr. Grattan
1231l1230 was not aware of the strength of the right hon. gentleman's argument, that because we adopted the original grant, therefore we were not obliged ever to enlarge it. If once the principle were adopted, he contended that the limitation of the sum was only to be fixed by the circumstances of the times: to act otherwise, was nominally to adopt, and ultimately to defeat the principle. What was the meaning of establishing a Catholic college, if the exigencies of such a college were not to be supplied as they should vary from time to time? The House should recollect, that the Catholic population paid for the Protestant establishment; and it was extremely just that something should be given to them. The grant was not for the propagation but the practice of the Catholic religion. The question was not, whether we should extend this or that faith by any act in the power of parliament to make. Such a system had been tried in Ireland, but it had failed. Acts had been passed which were mischievous in their operation, certainly disgraceful, and entirely useless for the purposes for which they were intended. Every effort
1231l1230Mr. Grattan
 maintained, that the Bill would defeat the very object which the framers of it had in view.Mr. H. Smith
 wished to know whether there was any check on the expenditure of the money granted?Mr. P. Moore
l1237llllllllllllllllllllll1236llllllllllllllll1235ll rose for the purpose of moving the Ordnance Estimates for the present year. As the whole sum amounted to no less than nearly four millions and a half, he trusted he should be excused if be stated shortly the principles on which the board had made up the accounts. They were as follow: I. To afford every information to the committee consistent with the convenience of the service. 2. To simplify the whole estimate by distinguishing, under the separate beads, all the different parts. 3. To confine the demands upon parliament to the expences merely of the current year, as would be seen by the Engineers' Estimate, in which a diminution of 73,000l1237llllllllllllllllllllll1236llllllllllllllll1235llMr. Robert Ward
 said, that to console farther the hon. general, he would assure him, there were 140 pieces of cannon at Weedon Beck, that there was also a troop of horse artillery.Mr. Ward
 said, that the depot at Weedon Beck did contain equipments of every kind for 200,000 men, which he hoped would sufficiently console the gallant general.Mr. Ward
l thought it rather extraordinary, that after allowing the propriety of withholding information respecting secret service, his hon. friend should complain, that no mention was made of the destination of the stores, and whether they had arrived. The stores, he could state, were all gone, with the exception of about 50,000lMr. Ward
 was willing to give the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer full credit for consistency, but it was a consistency which had been highly injurious, and might eventually prove fatal to the country. The sarcastic and facetious allusions that had been made to the administration of the right hon. baronet, and which might well have been spared, Could in no respect apply to himself, since he had held, and had been candidate for no place. The applause, however, excited by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer among his friends by his retort, appeared a little untimely, and somewhat injudicious, since the ink of a letter was yet scarcely dry, written by ministers, though signed by the Prince Regent, inviting noble lords, by the sacrifice of all consistency, to unite themselves to their government. It was calling upon persons proud of the path of honour they had pursued, to forsake the road where their companions were not less numerous than respectable, to join in the track so much trodden by the friends of the right hon. gentleman, that the way was become filthy, and almost impassable to those who were unwilling to cover themselves with the mire. The fearful novelty of which he had spoken, threatening ruin to Ireland, was not so much that the right hon. gentleman continued to hold the same language, but that he was permitted to hold the same place under the Regent that he occupied under the King, professing similar sentiments to those he before entertained.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that he ought to apologise for rising on this occasion, because, in fact, he had no new arguments to adduce in favour of the enlargement of this grant. There was a novelty, however, that night, which he thought it necessary to notice. The right hon. gentleman did certainly, on former occasions, oppose this grant; and when he became the minister of the King, he withdrew the additional sum given by parliament to make it more adequate to its purposes. But the novelty of that night was, that the right hon. gentleman opposed the enlarged grant, not as the minister of the King, but of the Prince Regent; not as in old ordinary times, but at this new sera. According to the principles avowed by the right hon. gentleman, it would have been more manly and fair to have undone the grant altogether, than to starve it as he was now doing. The right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had thrown out his loose assertion with regard to the instances of proselytism, merely, he imagined, for alarm. He defied him to mention where the proselytes were made, and how many they were. It was strange that the gentlemen opposite, who talked so much of the danger of foreign influence over the Catholics of Ireland, should thus oppose the very means by which that foreign influence would most likely be done away. He called upon the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to follow up his intolerant principles by cutting up this establishment altogether, or to agree to the amendment of his right hon. friend.Mr. Whitbread
1240 said, that he was as anxious as any member, that on the approaching discussion there should be as full a House as possible. So far the proposal for a Call had his perfect assent. He was not at all surprised at the conduct of the right hon. gentleman in the notice he had given; for if any thing could mislead the people of England on this subject, they would be misled by his measures. From the solemnity with which the right hon. gentleman had given his notice, and the observations with which he had accompanied it, it appeared clear that the whole influence of the executive government of the country was to be employed, for the purpose of opposing the claims of the Roman Catholic petitioners of Ireland. From what had passed that night, he could also understand, that in the applications made under the advice of that right hon. gentleman, to those who were on fundamental and vital principles opposed to his system of government, that right hon. gentleman "apposed that those parsons to whom that
1240Mr. Whitbread
l1220 defended the grant, and said that gentlemen seemed to confound the sum voted with the sum expended. It appeared that very recently there had been a surplus of the grant over the expenditure, and that surplus had been paid into the consolidated fund. With respect to the smallness of the expence of the year 1798, he begged to observe, that that was a year of great disturbance in Ireland, during a great part of which the courts of justice were closed, and therefore the expence of prosecution was not so great.—Agreed to.l1220Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 regretted that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) who first proposed the plan, was not in his place to vindicate himself from the charges of the right hon. baronet. It was impossible, from the nature of the undertaking, that the expence should be fully ascertained at the outset. He considered it as a complete geological surrey, embracing 17–20ths of all the bogs in Ireland, and far from being so fruitless as described by the right hon. baronet.—Agreed to.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 in the absence of his right hon. friend (Mr. Grattan), proposed to postpone the motion relative to the Catholics of Ireland to the 14th of April next.Mr. Fremantle
lll1238lll said there was an extraordinary increase in the present year in the expenditure of our West India Islands, without any apparent danger to account for it. He hoped to have a satisfactory explanation for the addition of 150,000lll1238lllMr. Fremantle
 said, he considered the sum as being very large for the number of children educated; and it appeared to him to be a subject well worthy of consideration, whether the money could not be laid out in a more advantageous manner.Mr. W. Smith
1218dslllldsl rose to move the Irish Miscellaneous Services. In proposing the different grants, he should not trouble the House with any observations, except where there was a difference between the present estimate and that of last year; at the same time, he should be ready to give every information in his power to any gentleman that might require it; the first resolution he had to propose was, for a sum of 30,5291218dslllldslMr. Wellesley Pole
ll said, that there was a sum of 5,000llMr. Pole
 said he did not know what the sum granted in 1798 was, but he knew that ever since the Union the sum now proposed was annually granted. If any gentleman wished to know how the money was expended, he had not the slightest objection to produce the accounts. If this grant was not made, it would be necessary to dip into the vote of credit for the ex-pence of these prosecutions. The only difference was, that by proposing an annual grant, the attention of parliament was annually called to the subject; whereas, if it were paid out of the vote of credit, the great probability was that it would escape notice. It did not follow that the sum granted was the sum expended. Last year there had been a saving, which had gone to the consolidated fund; this year the expence was increased, on account of the special commission, and the prosecutions which it had been necessary to institute. He could assure the committee, that so far was government from being lavish in the expenditure of the money granted for this purpose, that he had received complaints from many parts of Ireland, stating that government was niggardly in carrying on prosecutions at the public expence.Mr. Pole
lll stated, that the sum of 10,5000lllMr. Pole
 observed, that this sum was entirely spent in the last year; but that there had been a saving the year before, which went to the consolidated fund, as was always the case when there was a saving.Mr. Pole
 said, he really was surprised at the observation made by the hon. gentleman. He did not expect to find that at this day it would have been made a matter of discussion, whether the Protestant charter schools in Ireland were beneficial or not: he had never before heard a doubt expressed upon the subject. He had the pleasure of seeing in his place one of the most respectable members of the Board of Education (Mr. Grattan), and he would appeal to him for an opinion respecting these schools, and the manner in which they were conducted. He could not avoid again expressing a wish that gentlemen had read the reports of the Board of Education respecting these schools, of which there were ten or eleven before the House.Mr. Pole
l then moved, that the sum of 600lMr. Pole
1222 said, that these accounts all went before the Auditors of Public Accounts, by whom they were scrupulously examined, and these auditors had praised in the strongest terms the mode adopted
1222Mr. Pole
1223 begged leave shortly to trouble the committee, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. member. The observations of that hon. gentleman seemed to him to apply, not so much to the subject which was immediately under, the consideration of the committee, as to the general
1223Mr. Pole
l said, there was an augmentation of 2,500lMr. Pole
 said, that the Board of Education had made an elaborate report upon the state of these schools, from which it appeared, that in consequence of the increased price of provisions, it had been found necessary to allow one halfpenny per day in addition for the board of each of the children maintained in these schools, amounting to 2,400. These schools, he was sorry to say, had not been kept up in a proper way, but now they were very much improved, and the greatest attention was paid to them. He could undertake to say, that in no one instance was there greater attention paid to the expenditure of public money, than in that of the Protestant charter schools.Mr. Pole
 said, he understood that the board were taking steps to recover the debt alluded to, but whether it had actually been paid or not he did not know. Knowing the high respectability of the noblemen and gentlemen who composed the Linen board, he had taken it for granted that the proper means had been adopted for the recovery of the money; he would, however, make an enquiry upon the subject,—Agreed to.Mr. Pole
lll then moved, that a sum of 8,900lllMr. Pole
l1225 begged to trouble the House for a few moments, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. baronet. The right hon. baronet had stated to the committee the manner in which the board of charitable donations was formed, and when it was known that it was composed of the archbishops, bishops, and judges of Ireland, the committee, be was sure, would not suspect that such a board could act in the improper manner stated by the right hon. baronet. This was not the first time that the board of charitable donations had been arraigned. He had heard charges of a similar kind preferred before, in consequence of which he had sent for the secretary of that board, to ask for an account of their proceedings. It turned out, that during the twelve years that this board had been established, it had instituted only fifteen prosecutions, all under the opinion of the attorney general for the time being; of these fifteen prosecutions, only two had been brought" against persons of the Roman Catholic religion. In one of these two cases, the
l1225Mr. Pole
l1226 said, that the best answer that could be given to the observation of the right hon. baronet respecting' the disposition of the board, towards Catholics was,
l1226Mr. Pole
 said, that the committee would judge whether he had not shewn a dispotion to satisfy the right hon. baronet or any other gentleman who desired explanation on any point. He had answered him, over and over, and he conceived that, standing as he did, with a close estimate in his hand, he had nothing more to do than to propose the Resolution to the committee.Mr. Pole
l next proposed the grant of 8,973lMr. Pole
lll1227 observed, that though this grant had been so often brought under the consideration of parliament, be felt himself bound again to bring it under their attention. He would contend, that it was more than ever incumbent on the House to make some addition to the grant now proposed. His reasons were, that the population of Ireland, of which the Catholics formed so large a part, was annually increasing; and, therefore, the demand for religious instruction must increase in proportion. Considering the influence which the Catholic clergy deservedly possessed, it was desirable at all times, that their education should be conducted at home, rather than abroad; but there was no other provision for that education, except what was
lll1227Sir J. Newport
 insisted that, during the first session of the new parliament, under the present administration, the grant was enlarged, though nominally, to discharge the expences of some new erections. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that the government of which be (sir J. N.) was a humble member, had done all that lay in their power to promote the Roman Catholic religion. The assertion was unfounded; but it was true that every thing was done necessary to protect the injured rights of the Catholics, and, by protecting them to maintain the general interests of the united empire. In such an attempt, the right hon. baronet had borne his share of the duty, and he should never be ashamed of the part he had borne.Sir J. Newport
 paid a tribute of applause to the manner in which this Association was conducted: its attention was directed to the distribution of prayer-books and bibles, to enlighten the lower orders, and not to the searching after, and punishment of, petty insignificant crimes.Sir J. Newport
honoris causd said, he did not mean to speak disrespectfully of the board, but he believed that the names of the bishops and judges were inserted honoris causdSir J. Newport
1221 expressed a hope, that, in future, before grants of this kind were made, the House would have an opportunity of determining on their utility, and not be led on, step by step, in considerable disbursements for inconsiderable objects. In his opinion, the survey of all Ireland might have been effected for one third of the sum voted for this purpose. Besides, a very large proportion of these bogs, for the survey of which the public paid, belonged to noblemen and gentlemen, who were very able to have them surveyed, without increasing the public burthens. The idea originally stated, when this plan was ushered in, was, that a sufficient quantity
1221Sir J. Newport
 wished to know, before this sum was voted, what had become of a debt due to the board? and thought the grant should be suspended until some information was obtained on the subject.Sir. J. Newport
ll said, that the right hon. gentleman had not explained to his satisfaction the cause of the increase this year, over and above the increase of 10,000llSir J. Newport
l wished to know, why there should be a still further increase on the increase of 10,000lSir J. Newport
 maintained, that he had a right to demand, from any minister, a full explanation, as to the votes of the public money; nor would twenty close estimates solve the question he had put, and to which he had a right to expect an answer, without the imputation of cavil, which now seemed to be the custom to impute to any gentleman who wished for information on the disposal of the annual grants.Sir J. Newport
 did not rise to object to this grant, but could not avoid saying a few words upon some of the proceedings of these commissioners. They had thought it proper to interfere with bequests of Catholics, and had prevented them from being carried into execution; an instance of which had occurred in the city he had the honour to represent. A Roman Catholic lady had bequeathed a considerable sum for charitable purposes, but the commissioners of charitable donations had thought proper to interfere, and to prevent the will from being carried into execution; the consequence of which was, that several poor widows, who under this will were to be furnished with an asylum, were now actually begging their bread. The board of charitable donations was composed of the archbishops, bishops, judges, and some others, and he did not by any means wish to question their respectability, but he thought it unfortunate that they should thus interfere with the bequests of the Roman Catholics.Sir J. Newport
 said, that this grant placed on the Journals an anticipation of a state of disturbance in Ireland, which would call for the expenditure of so large a sum; this reason alone was sufficient against it.Sir J. Newport
ll thought it would be well to divide the different heads, instead of including all under one denomination. The right hon. gentleman had said, that part of the sum was to be applied to the printing of the Gazettes. Why, then, were they called upon to vote, in another part of the estimates, the sum of 10,500llSir J. Newport
 said, that if information was not attainable as the law originally stood, it was folly to expect it when more severe punishments were enacted—it was not in human nature. He was confident that sanguinary punishments, enacted on the spur of the occasion, never answered any good purpose in this, or in any other country.Sir J. Newport
 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the granting of Offices in Reversion, for a time to be limited. After what had passed in the House on this subject, during the present session, the question could not fail to be in the mind of every member. He should not detain them, therefore, with recapitulating the reasons which induced him to make the, present motion. The Bill which he intended to bring in, should be have liberty to do so, would be exactly the same with the Bill introduced into the House of Lords during the last year, and which had passed that House.—He accordingly moved for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent, for a time to be limited, the grant of Offices in Reversion.—Leave being given, he immediately brought in the Bill, which was read a first time.Mr. Bankes
124312421241 rose, agreeably to the notice be had given, to call the attention of the House to the subject of the number of Foreigners at present in the employment of this country. He should divide these into three heads: first, Foreigners who held commands not in foreign corps: second, Privates serving in British regiments: and thirdly, Foreigners on the staff of the British army. He should not go the length of saying that ministers acted contrary to law, in having so large a number of foreign troops in the pay and service of this country; but this he must say, that these corps had been suffered of late years to increase in a very rapid manner. Formerly they amounted only to 5,000 men; now they amounted to about 30,000 men, and the increase within the last year was about 6,000. He should not say that this was contrary to law, considering that years had been allowed to pass without any complaint having been regularly brought forward on the sub-
124312421241Lord Folkestone
 passed a strong eulogy upon the merits and services of colonel Quintin.Colonel Palmer
 observed, that there were regiments marked for the admission of foreigners. But why introduce them into native corps? No doubt the character of colonel Quintin was highly respectable, but the motion had no reference to individual character, and its principle was, in his opinion, extremely salutary. It had been a distinction peculiar to the English army, that desertion was almost unknown in it; and it was therefore most important and desirable that this character should be carefully maintained, and not endangered by lessening those feelings and that national spirit, which the appointment of foreigners to commands was calculated to effect.Sir John Sebright
1244 stated, that he was perfectly ready to meet the noble lord who brought forward the motion, as to the law upon the subject. All that had been done
1244Lord Palmerston
1245 read the preamble of the act quoted by the noble lord who spoke last, and shewed that the word
1245Sir John Newport
12471246*** expressed some surprize that those principles which he had always been accustomed to regard as established and incontrovertible, should now be represented as altogether obsolete and inapplicable to the circumstances of the present time. He was himself so little versed in the modern lore of the right hon. gentlemen, as still to retain the belief that the true means of upholding the country when surrounded with difficulties and dangers, was to adhere steadily to the fundamental laws. But it seemed that this was a new æra indeed. From all that he knew of the history of the country, he held it to have always been the distinguishing feature and universal characteristic of Englishmen to feel a jealousy of foreigners, and particularly of armed foreigners, being introduced into this service. In Magna Charta it was stipulated by the barons in arms, as a previous condition to the laying them down, that the 2,000 foreigners then in the kingdom should be immediately sent out of it. If we looked to later periods, passing over many important intervening stages, and coming down to that sera of struggle and difficulty, the reign of Charles 1, dignified, indeed, by some with the title of Martyr, but who appeared to him to be only a martyr to his own obstinacy, if the House would refer to the famous Remonstrance of 1641,12471246***Sir F. Burdett
1248 said, the question was not whether the acts of the 44th and 46th of the present reign ought to be repealed, but whether they justified the practice now adopted? Did the facts of the case made out before the House justify the description of the hon. bart. in stating all the fences of the constitution to be broken down? As to what had been said with respect to the impolicy of admitting foreigners while prosecuting our own seamen, suppose the case of our having employed the troops under marquis Romana, who had been forced into the enemy's service, instead of sending them to Spain, would that have been improper? Now, the clause in the Act of Settlement itself, prohibiting the employment of foreigners, was subsequently introduced, for the purpose of guarding against a particular contingency. It was true, as stated by a right hon. baronet, that the preamble was the key of the statute, but he could not think it was to lock up the fair interpretation of any particular clause, uncontrouled by any definition in the preamble. The right hon. gent. then read a clause in the third section, in order to shew that the only distinction between it and the two former was, that the latter justified the present practice, and authorised its continuance.—Some might think it justifiable to allow the enlistment of foreigners into separate regiments, and yet be of opinion that they ought not to be engrafted into British regiments. If the noble lord thought fit, he might attempt to get the third section repealed. All that he contended for was, that as the law stood, government were justifiable in enlisting foreigners into British regiments. But, admitting that foreigners ought not to be admitted into British regiments, still the extent to which they were admitted
1248The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that a return was sent to the War office every year, containing the name, age, place of birth, and nature of service, of every man in a regiment. With respect to the employment of foreign troops abroad, he thought, in the present state of the world, we could not have too many of them; but with respect to taking them into English regiments, he was in direct opposition to such a measure. Mixing Germans and English together into one regiment, was like mixing baser metals with gold and silver. The highest testimony had been borne to the superiority of English soldiers in former times, by such men as marshal Turenne and marshal Villars; and this superiority we had" still maintained. Would Great Britain ever allow herself to be over-run, and her character to be debased, in the manner of Prussia and Austria? He was of opinion, therefore, that government might take as many foreigners as they pleased into pay; but let them still be called mercenaries:General Tarleton
1249 complained of the
1249Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that these foreign officers would cease to hold commissions within a limited time after the termination of the war.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that two or three years ago he bad seen a good deal of the peninsula, and when in Gibraltar he saw about 600 men in our service there, who had belonged to Dupont's army, among whom a great number were Parisians. They told him so themselves. He would ask a gallant colonel near him, why foreigners were taken into the 10th regiment, in preference to Irishmen? Was such an indignity to be put upon the Irish people, that they were to be considered as unfit to serve their country? This was really something beyond human patience to bear.Mr Bennet
 knew nothing of the circumstance mentioned by the hon. gentleman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the reason why they had not enlisted Irishmen was, that the description of Irishmen met with in this country were liable to desert, and it was difficult to get them back again.Colonel Palmer
1250 in reply said, he did not wish a return of the names of the foreigners in each corps, but merely of the numbers. It was necessary to have such a return, to know to what extent the practice had been carried, that, if necessary, it might be put a stop to. How could government know whether they had not more than 16,000 foreigners employed, if they did not know the numbers serving in British corps? With respect to the 3d clause of the act, he was aware that he was contending with fearful odds, when he had to argue with the right hon. gentleman about the meaning of an act of parliament, well knowing both the influence and legal knowledge to which he was opposed. Besides, he did not know if the right hon. gentleman had not had himself some hand in the framing of the act, as he believed he was then attorney general. In his opinion, the 3d clause merely gave authority to those foreigners who were to be admitted to serve, to do so without breach of law. The wording ran; "And be it lawful for such subjects to be enlisted," &c. But this clause would never justify the engrafting fo-
1250Lord Folkestone
 had no objection to furnish the returns for the regiments at home.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 having agreed to withdraw his motion,Lord Folkestone
1254 had not apprehended, when he first gave notice of this motion, that it would meet with any opposition; but as he now understood it would be resisted by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, he begged leave to state the grounds of his motion. The two circumstances to which he wished to call their attention, were the extended practice of admitting convicts into the military service of the country, and the greatly increased number of free pardons, The House would recollect that an hon. general had lately stated in that House that upwards of 143 persons lately discharged from the hulks had been admitted into one regiment. He was ready to agree, that this was a practice which, in certain cases and to a particular extent, was perfectly justifiable. His, complaint was, that there had evidently been an unwise and indefensible excess, and a total negligence in the exercise of the prerogative of the crown in this respect. Was the right hon. gentleman acquainted with all the circumstances of the individual cases in question? had he inquired into the particulars of the offences and characters of the persons pardoned; or had any reference been made to the judges who tried them? He knew from the right hon. gentleman himself, that none of these
1254Mr. Abercromby
12561255 deprecated the motion, but had no wish to screen himself from any responsibility for having advised the pardons, because, in so doing, he had followed precedent, Pardons had not.; latterly been granted to the extent as formerly. In one instance, he understood, that upwards of 500 had been allowed to enter into the army and navy. With respect to the present subject, the fact was, that Mr. Graham had represented to him that there were a number of persons whose conduct had been so correct, that they were fit objects for royal consideration. In consequence of this representation, he had thought it his duty to recommend those persons to be pardoned on condition of enlisting for life. It had been found that bad effects arose from sending them for life to serve abroad, and a communication was made to the Commander in Chief; the result was, that it was judged adviser able to permit the enlisting under these conditions, but the men were informed that it Jested with them whether they
12561255Mr. Secretary Ryder
1257 thought, that it would be
1257Mr. Wynn
 wished to know, whether, in the selection of convicts for the army, morals or age was most attended to? He knew one of those persons, who was above fifty years of age, and had been a commissioned officer, and sentenced to death for forgery. As to the secrecy practised about where those men came from, he himself had seen thirty of them at one time driven into the barrack-yard, when the officer escorting them got a receipt for their bodies. It was not, therefore, very extraordinary that this secret should transpire.General Ferguson
1258 could see no objection to the motion. It was of great importance to know in what manner the selection was made from the hulks. Although he did not disapprove of some of the convicts being allowed to serve in the army or navy, yet he wished to know the principle upon which the selection was made. Although there was no prerogative more valuable than that of pardoning, yet there was none which should be exercised with more care, or attended with greater responsibility. He knew cases where pardons had been granted on motives which the prosecutors could not guess at. Men had been sent to Botany Bay at the expence of the country, and had immediately on their landing, and in some instances without setting a foot on shore, been pardoned and sent back in the same ship. When he heard of so large a number as
1258Sir S. Romilly
 shortly replied. His object would be gained if, after this, men were sent from the hulks only in small numbers at a time, to join any particular corps; and he trusted that his motion, which some gentlemen seemed to think mischievous, would at least be attended with this good effect, that 120 convicts would not again be sent in one batch to a regiment.Mr. Abercromby
, in explanation, said, that it was 120, and not 500, who had been lately sent to the army from the hulks. He had only stated that formerly 500 had been sent.Mr. Secretary Ryder
12601259 stated his anxiety to correct a misrepresentation he was sorry to have seen in the papers, of what he was reported to have stated in answer to the
12601259Colonel Palmer
 disapproved of mixing those men in the army. He remembered there was an objection a long time ago, to admitting those men, who were called gaol-birds, into the regular regiments. Since that time, however, the quality of the army had been much improved, by the system of enlisting from the militia, who were the flower of the country.General Tarleton
1253 rose, and after a few prefatory
1253Mr. Wilson
 opposed the motion, and said that there was no branch of the royal prerogative which he should feel so little disposed to question as this.Mr. Sturges Bourne
 opposed the motion, as likely to do mischief. He thought that it was right, as much as possible, to throw a veil over the former offences of those whose good conduct had recommended them to be admitted into the army. It must be recollected, also, that many of those offences which were punished by transportation and imprisonment in the hulks, were not offences which implied any great depravity of mind; and when the temptations to which the poorer classes were sometimes exposed, as well as their want of religious education, were fairly considered, it would not be just to suppose a man absolutely irreclaimable, because he had committed some small theft, or other offence, which was visited with that punishment. He thought that it would be better to mix these men with other corps, than to form whole regiments of them.Mr. Wilberforce
1261 rose to point out some clauses which seemed to him very objectionable. He thought the present prevailing practice, with respect to private Poor Bills, very faulty. Instead of that uniformity of system, both as to maintenance and punishment, which ought to exist through all parts of the country, every new Bill proposed some different project. The system was not national but parochial, and a different administration of criminal law was to be found in the different parishes. In some places the punishment was corporeal—in others, imprisonment—in others very slight, being a mere change of diet. Bills of this sort, being of a private nature, seldom attracted much of the public attention, and it was only by accident that he had become acquainted with those provisions of the present Bill, to which he now objected as destructive of that sameness which ought to characterize the system of the poor laws. He did not exactly know how to prevent the introduction of different regulations into different Bills. Perhaps it might be effected by a standing order of the House, that all Bills introducing new methods of punishment or of management should be submitted to a committee of the whole House. He objected also to the liability to abuse which was inherent in the present clauses. A poor wretch might languish in prison for days and months, and yet could have no remedy by action of false imprisonment. There were now no less than, three Bills in their progress, which had contained various methods of punishment, but which had been altered at his suggestion; yet, if he had not chanced to notice them, they would have passed the House unamended. He should now propose his alterations:—One clause empowered magistrates to apprentice youth at the age of 14 or sooner. He objected to the latter words, as giving a discretionary power to send out children at the tenderest age. He was not to be told that such abuse could not arise, as he was himself acquainted with an instance, where 20 children of only 7 years old had been
1261Sir Samuel Romilly
said he bad seen boys of from ten to twelve years of age apprenticed out very usefully, on which account he would suggest to his hon. and learned friend, to substitute ten years in the place of fourteen, to which it would stand limited by his amendment.Mr. Thompson
 said, the consequence of the Bill, as it stood at present, was to enable the trustees to place children out at the tenderest age; he knew of one parish that had sent twenty children out in one year at the age of seven, to a house in Scotland. He acceded to the suggestion of his hon. friend.Sir S. Romilly
P. R1263 presented the following Message
P. R1263The Chancellor of the Exchequer
Oderint dum metuant127512741273127212711270126912681267una voce126612651264, in bringing the subject of military punishments again under the notice of the House, hoped he should be considered as performing, as was his intention, a duty to the army and to the people at large. He was persuaded that few gentlemen could be found who would differ with him in the sentiment, that they ought, if possible, to get rid of the punishment of flogging, or, as it was called by a circumlocution which seemed to imply that those who supported the practice were ashamed of the simple and direct word by which it was described, "corporal punishment." But imprisonment was also a corporal punishment; and his objection was not, therefore, to be taken as against this species of infliction generally, which he confessed to be necessary in the coercion of soldiers to their duty, which the slow progress of civil law would be inefficient in accomplishing. It was his object to contend, that there were other principles which might be acted upon, and other punishments, short of death, and even death itself, which might be inflicted more consistently with the good of the service—more consistently with the character and honour of the soldier, and more consistently with the character and honour of
Oderint dum metuant127512741273127212711270126912681267una voce126612651264Sir Francis Burdett
ad terrorem12771276 observed, that the hon. baronet set out with professing that what he had to say would be an appeal rather to the hearts than to the understandings of members; and in truth his speech had been addressed to the passions rather than reason. He was persuaded that, however conscientious the motives of the hon. baronet, there was no degradation from which the British army would recoil with more disgust and impatience, than from the description which the hon. baronet had been pleased to give of their situation. What was it true that a British soldier was subject only to punishment? Was he entitled to no reward? Was he in a worse state than an African slave? He would venture to say, that there were no assertions so untrue, so calculated to incense the feelings of the British army, and indeed to reduce them to real degradation, as many of the statements of the hon. bart. The hon. baronet had hazarded opinions not founded on any enquiry. He had said, that no soldier who underwent corporal punishment could ever raise his head again among his friends and companions. If he had investigated the fact, he would have found that in many regiments soldiers who had suffered proper corporal correction, so far from having become worthless, had afterwards conducted themselves in such an exemplary manner as to become noncommissioned officers, and in that new situation to fulfil all their duties irreproachably. This was fact, and the hon. bart. was not justified in coming, down to the House, and uninformed as be was, broadly stating, the punishment was invariably followed by the self-abandonment of the soldier on whom it had been inflicted. The hon. baronet had charged him with an intention, on a former night, of deluding the House by a fallacious statement with respect to the number of corporal punishments that had recently
ad terrorem12771276Mr. Manners Sutton
1278 was disposed to think that advantage had arisen from the many discussions which had already taken place on the subject. At the same time it was a subject, of all others, on which, in the discussion, great caution ought to be used. With respect to the question, he was happy to concur in the course which had been adopted by his Majesty's government, not at all questioning the purity of the
1278Mr. Abercromby
1279 begged leave to correct the hon. baronet in what he had said respecting promotions, by stating that after the battle of Albuera, and after many other battles that, had been fought in Portugal, lord Wellington ordered the list of Serjeants to be sent to him, for the purpose of promoting those to be officers who had behaved well—and be also, as colonel of a militia regiment, had had an opportunity of promoting three into the line, who now held commissions in the regular army. The hon. baronet had also wished that monthly returns were sent in to the Commander in Chief, specifying the number and nature of the crimes committed, the punishment inflicted, &c. He could inform him that half-yearly returns to that effect were now sent in to the office of the Commander in Chief. He expressed his regret that the hon. baronet should have relied on the publications of certain officers, and he also regretted that those officers high in rank should have made public their opinions on the subject; it would have conduced more to the benefit of the service if they had stated those opinions to the government, or to the Commander in Chief, for he well knew that illustrious person had the most sincere desire to abolish corporal punishment. The right hon. and learned gentleman had completely answered most of the hon. baronet's arguments. He had never understood there was any difference in the instruments by which punishments were inflicted. The distinction between
1279Sir George Warrender
 observed, that corporal punishment had been inflicted in the reign of queen Elizabeth, and in the war of Marlborough, and yet the army, as might be seen in the history of Sully, in the former reign, was distinguished for valour and discipline before Rouen. And on their conduct in the latter period, it was unnecessary for him to say any thing. It had been said on a former night, by an hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham), that it was owing to the opinions of Mr. Cobbett that corporal punishment was abated. He did not know what might have been the military education of Mr. Cobbett, but he believed, that if he bad felt the terror of the lash, he would have been deterred from publishing many of those opinions, which, since he left the army, had involved him in so many awkward predicaments; and might new be dwelling in other lodgings than those which he had provided for himself. The hon. baronet, in the course of his arguments, had not noticed or proposed any remedy for corporal punishment in the navy. What had the navy done that they were not to be included in the hon. baronet's proposition? He did not impute any bad intention to the hon. baronet in bringing forward this motion. It could not be a love of popularity certainly, for he had already a large stock of that material on hand:—whatever were his motives, be was convinced however, that this discussion must do mischief, because it tended to raise hopes in the minds of the soldiers which could not be realised.Mr. C. Adams
1280, after the speeches of the night hon. and learned gentleman, and of the hon. baronet (sir George Warrender), should not have been inclined to trouble the House, as these hon. members had
1280General Loftus
1281 agreed with the arguments, and would support the motion of the hon. baronet. From the tone and manner assumed
1281Mr. Bennet
12831282 was glad to see that the discussions on this subject had been productive, at least, of one effect; it was now in fact, avowed on all sides of the House, with scarcely any exceptions, that the abolition of the species of punishment under consideration was quite impracticable. The hon. baronet had spoken in just terms of praise of the memory of Mr. Windham; but if he (lord P.) knew any thing of that high character, he was Convinced that that right hon. gentleman could have heard nothing with more indignation than the hon. baronet's comparison, this night, of the soldiers of England
12831282Lord Palmerston
1284, though agreeing with the hon. baronet in the general dislike which he felt for this mode of punishment in the army, could not vote with him, on account of the manner in which he had brought forward his clause this night. He contended that the hon. baronet had, instead of mischief, done great good by urging these discussions; but he was at the same time convinced that no discussions ought to be more cool, nor any more tempered by moderation. He thought it quite ill-timed to introduce this clause on the third reading, when it might have been with infinitely more advantage brought forward in the Committee. It appeared that all person; wished that this punishment could be dispensed with, and he was convinced that it one day would be dispensed with: but to take an illustration from the Slave Trade, as others had done, he thought that the existence of flogging was just in the same predicament as the existence of slavery. Though the Slave Trade was abolished, who was there that would venture to say that it was practicable to emancipate the slaves? He was afraid that there was something in the character of slavery which rendered it dangerous to give immediate freedom to the slave. As long as there existed a mass of baseness and profligacy in some of the soldiery, he was afraid that flogging must exist. A friend of his had told him, that in his Highland regiment nothing formerly was considered more disgraceful than a flogging. The highlander who had the misfortune to be submitted to the punishment, would in fact be for ever ashamed to hold up his head or return to his family. The principle of honour, therefore, which animated those
1284Mr. W. Smith
1285l approved of the Bill in its present form, and objected to the introduction of the clause proposed. He thought the system of education introduced into the army would tend to do away the necessity of resorting to that mode of punishment complained of. The soldiers' in our service had great rewards to look up to; not only might they rise to be non-commissioned officers and afterwards advanced to the rank of ensigns, but they might even rise from the ranks to be generals. A general died but the other day who had risen from the ranks, and who had acquired a large fortune, and left behind him 80,0001285lGeneral Tarleton
1286 said, he thought it his duty to support the motion; but in so doing he did not wish it to be supposed that he adopted all the opinions of the hon. baronet by whom it had been brought forward. Those opinions he had not heard: but he had been informed by some friends near him that they could not vote for the motion, because of the opinions by which it had been introduced. He should therefore vote for the motion on its own intrinsic merit. The real question was, whether flogging should be continued or abolished. For his own part he could have no hesitation in saying, that he thought it ought to be abolished. It was a most disgraceful and degrading mode of punishment, and it was impossible it should not have the effect of de
1286Sir S. Romilly
 was certain that the infliction of 224 lashes could not have caused the death of the man at the Cape of Good Hope of whom the hon. and learned gentleman had spoken. If in his punishment there bad been any impropriety, he was sure there was a commander in chief there, who would report the case; and he was equally certain, that there was a commander in chief here, who would not pass it lightly over. He strongly opposed the clause, being firmly persuaded that corporal punishments were never inflicted in the army, but from necessity, and in mercy. Every other punishment had been tried without effect; and it was not possible to send soldiers to wait till the assizes for having made free with his comrades' necessaries, and for other minor offences for which this punishment was used. He should be glad if it could be dispensed with, but it was impossible to preserve discipline without it.Lord C Somerset
 said, when he considered what a huge and multifarious body an army was, he should be afraid of adopting suddenly so material a change in what was deemed to be so essential to its discipline, on which depended entirely the management and government of it. He could wish, however, that corporal punishment might not be enforced but by the sentence of a general court-martial. He understood it was now thought to be less necessary than it was formerly; and it would, in his opinion, be safer and better if it were hereafter inflicted only on an average opinion of the officers, which he thought would have the effect of rendering this punishment less frequent.Mr. Wilberforce
 observed, that the sentences of general courts martial were more severe than those of others, and he had never heard any complaints against regimental courts martial. There would be great difficulty in most cases in obtaining officers enough to form a general court martial, so that the wishes of the hon. number for Yorkshire could not in that respect be complied with. With respect to the man who had been spoken of, he might have died after receiving 224 lashes, but they could not be the cause of his death. The surgeon present at the time they were inflicted was responsible for the number given, and would always interfere before the production of any fatal effect.General Phipps
1288 bore testimony to the leniency with which courts martial acted.
1288General Porter
1289 said, he hoped he should not be induced to express himself warmly in consequence of what had fallen from the two last speakers. The hon. general who had just sat down had informed the House, that he had never seen this punishment inflicted but with the greatest leniency. On the contrary, he (Mr. W.) had heard general officers of the very first character and respectability, and of as long standing in the army as the last speaker, say otherwise. That hon. general, as well as the noble lord opposite (C. Somerset), had as much under-rated the severity of the punishment as it had perhaps been over-rated in other quarters, for which he was very sorry as, when these statements of the hon. generals came to be made public, they might have a bad effect, and produce considerable indignation in the minds of those who had expressed their opinions on the subject in terms so widely different. When the hon. general on the opposite side of the House asserted, that it was impossible a man should die from receiving 224 lashes, he must differ from him in opinion; he had beard from very good authority many instances in which this had been the case. He did not mean to impeach the character of those officers who inflicted it: as long as it remained as the punishment for certain degrees of offence, they must do their duty in administering it. Notwithstanding the letter which had been read by the gallant general near him (general Tarleton) general Money had certainly published his pointed disapprobation of this punishment, and had said that desertion was the only crime for which it ought to be inflicted. He (Mr. W.) did not mean to say that the situation of the British soldier was in itself degrading, but he was certainly of opinion, this punishment was very degrading to the character of a British soldier. Was it known, that in every regiment there was a thief's cat, and that according to the manner in which the knots Were tied, and their number, the
1289Mr. Whitbread
 defended the present system, as greatly to be preferred to that of France, or any other country. He contended that imprisonment would not answer the end proposed, and that the best soldiers in the army would oppose that sort of punishment as useless to reclaim the negligent; and that they would prefer the present system.Colonel Frankland
 of Kerry was an enemy to corporal punishment if it could be avoided, but experience had proved it to be necessary. All other modes of punishment had been resorted to without success, and he should therefore vote against the clause proposed to be introduced.Mr. Herbert
 rose.Sir. F. Burdett
.—Sir F. Burdett, to exlain.The Speaker
 said, he rose to reply to the arguments brought forward against his clause.Sir F. Burdett
 observed that a reply was allowable only on an original motion.The Speaker
1291hoped that by degrees this punishment might in time be abolished, but declared that it was impracticable to govern any large body of men without having the power of recourse to it. He believed, however, that much of the mischief as to this punishment of flogging, especially in the navy, had been caused by the influence of that House. Great parliamentary interest had enabled the first families in the kingdom to force their children into the service, who were too young to understand the authority entrusted to them. Many of them insisted on their decks being as clean and as shining as the floor of a drawing room in the summer season, and that their' kitchen utensils should be scoured as bright as silver, with a variety of other useless and fantastic commands; and if such commands were not obeyed, they flogged severely those who had those articles in charge. The discipline of the navy depended on the commanding officer of each ship; and if they continued to flog for such offences the navy must soon go to ruin. It was going, he said, as fast as possible. Gentlemen might think otherwise, but he knew it to be true, and he was afraid they would all be convinced of it too soon. The family interest he had alluded to prevailed also to such a degree, that even the Lords of the Admiralty had lists made out; and when an officer went to offer his service, or to solicit promotion for services performed, he was asked—are you recommended by my lady this, or miss that, or madam t'other; and if he was not, he might as well have staid at home. He could not, however, vote for the motion. It would be better to look to those to whom power was trusted, than to take away the power of punishing altogether. If it were so taken away, it would ruin the service. The best men in the navy would say so, and if put to the vote among the sailors, he was sure the decision would be in favour of the present mode of punishment, but they would tell the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty that they ought to be commanded by persons of experience, and not by young men appointed by parliamentary influence, or any other influence. He hoped he should see the practice of flogging
1291Lord Cochrane
 was almost in doubt after what he had heard, whether the noble lord, as the debate had run to a considerable length, bad not had a dream while it was going on. In the first instance, he had stated that the sailors were foolishly employed in cleaning the deck, &c.; that in consequence, frequent punishments were inflicted, and this through the appointment of young officers; and finally, he had spoken of a register being kept at the Admiralty for the recommendations of lords and ladies. In each instance the charge preferred was unfounded. He did not know where the noble lord had been since he left the service, nor where he gained his information, but there was no foundation for any one of his statements. He regretted that the noble lord had relinquished the command of one of the finest frigates in the service (why, he professed himself at a loss to tell), for employments in which he was by no means likely to prove so eminently useful to his country. With respect to the mode of promotion in the navy, he did not know of what time the noble lord was speaking—whether of the present or of the time of his own promotion. He did not know whether his promotion had been hastened in the way he had mentioned, but he had certainly been one of the youngest officers in the service. When however he was told in the navy that no person could rise to the rank of a lieutenant, till after six years service, nor till the party was 19 years of age, that after that, two years were necessary to raise him to the rank of commander, and one more then before he could be made a post captain; if he would put these together he would find that officers could not be promoted without having some experience. The punishments in the navy were not more frequent than formerly; but though in these particulars he was obliged to contradict the noble lord, he should agree with him in his vote. To lay aside that discipline by which we had risen to our present height, would be an act of political suicide and madness unparalleled even in this age of experiment.Mr. Yorke
 expressed himself hostile to the abolition of corporal punishment.Mr. Kemp
1292 rose to propose his clause, in doing which he made a number of
1292Sir F. Burdett
, though he did not think it desirable to vote the abolition of the punishment: altogether, thought it very proper to know the number of such punishments by courts-martial. It had been properly said by an hon. member (Mr. Wilberforce) that the House should have the means of judging what modifications might be enacted. He should therefore ask the Judge Advocate whether any serious inconvenience would occur, by giving a return of the number of punishments by regimental courts-martial, limiting it to the home service.Mr. Abercromby
 would have no objection to lay this document before the House, but really the accounts of regimental courts-martial did not come officially before him. All he could say, was, that he understood generally that corporal punishments bad decreased in regimental courts-martial.Mr. Manners Sutton
 wished the commitment to be postponed. The subject was of very great importance; and he knew that several members, not present in the House, 'but professionally engaged in a distant part of the country, were very desirous of being present at the discussion. At any rate, he thought a Bill of such importance should not be discussed in a committee at that late hour.Sir S. Romilly
 said, he only meant to move the commitment for the purpose of having the blanks filled up; and he intended afterwards to move the recommitment on Friday next.Mr. Holford
 wondered that this time should be chosen for the commitment of the Bill, when so many persons, anxious to be present at the discussion, were necessarily absent. He was not aware that any such importance could be attached to the filling up the blanks as to require the House now to go into a committee; he therefore could not help concurring in opinion with his hon. and learned friend.Mr. Abercromby
 thought the Bill should not be hurried through the House, without any documents of the probable expence which the erection of these houses might cost. He wished that a plan and estimates might be laid before them on this subject.Mr. Holme Sumner
 entertained great doubts of the propriety of establishing penitentiary houses. He thought that bringing together 5 or 600 of the worst characters of the country, was not the likeliest way of amending them.Mr. Calvert
 thought it perfectly right that the plan of his hon. friend should be seen and understood, and saw no method more likely to have that effect than the suffering it to go to a committee, when the blanks might be filled up.Mr. Long
 said, there did not appear any objection to the filling up the blanks, but hoped that a longer time would be allowed to elapse before the Bill was carried through the remaining stages. It had been in their hands now for three weeks, but so many new clauses had been since added, that it was quite necessary that more time should be allowed for the purpose of perfectly understanding it.Mr. Whubread
 said, that there certainly could be no objection to give sufficient opportunity to examine the provisions of the Bill; but he doubted whether the clauses which had been added were of a nature to require much consideration. The Bill had been already delayed too long, and if any obstacles were thrown in the way of its progress, nothing could be done in the course of the summer towards fulfilling its provisions.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 agreed as to the necessity of an uniform code of poor laws, but thought that trustees should be invested with considerable power. He thought the whole system of the poor laws required alteration, and wished that some gentleman would dedicate his attention to such a work.Mr. D. Giddy
 explained the motives of the clause which empowered magistrates to apprentice children into Scotland. He said there was a considerable trade carried on between Strood and that part of the kingdom, which necessarily led to a connection between the two places. If, however, any doubt existed as to the propriety of this clause, he was authorised by the framers of the Bill to withdraw it.Sir E. Knatchbull
13071306 said, that he was one of those who originally thought that we should not have entered as principals into the war in the peninsula; he still thought so, but he conceived that there was a great difference between such an opinion and that which he might entertain after that war had been so commenced, and continued for years. Whether they should have entered into it on the scale they had done, and whether they should now abandon it, were quite different questions; for the policy of abandoning it might be a great deal worse than the policy which induced us to commence it. He could not agree with his hon. friend who spoke last; for in the system which he recommended, though he said he would not abandon the war, yet his opinions would lead him to starve it. That would, indeed, be carrying on the war so as to be burdensome, while at the same time it afforded no probability of succeeding in any one object of it. Though he still thought it would have been wiser to have acted differently, yet it should be recollected, that there was nothing so disgraceful to the character of a great nation as a changeable vacillating policy. It often happened in the concerns of nations, that it was better to pursue a course which was not in the first instance rightly, selected, than to give it
13071306The Hon. Mr. Ward
1308 entertained similar sentiments with his hon. friend who had just spoken, and was disposed to give credit to ministers, and to the noble earl at the head of the army in the peninsula, for the conduct of the war. He was, however, sorry to be obliged to withhold his praise from
1308Colonel Dillon
l1313l13121311l rose to propose a resolution for granting the sum of 80,000l1313l13121311lMr. Yorke
 wished to propose a clause to prevent the infliction of the punishment of flogging in the Local Militia.Sir F. Burdett
1314 in consequence of this suggestion, arose to offer an amendment. He prefaced his motion with a few remarks on the impropriety of resorting to the punishment of flogging. Adverting to the case of Mr. Taylor, to which he had alluded last year, he maintained that what he then stated was correct, and that subsequent information had satisfied him that Mr. Taylor was a man of excellent character, of good education, and considerable talents. Education had been recently spoken of as likely to tend to the abolishing of flogging, but here was an instance from which a different inference might be drawn, as Mr. Taylor's education had led him to write that song for which he was punished. He then noticed what had taken place at the isle of Ely, where, on account of a squabble between the officers and men about the marching guinea, to which the latter thought they were entitled, their conduct had been said to be mutinous, and a number of these young men who had but just put off their smock frocks, had been sentenced to receive 500 lashes. He would ask, if such punishment was not out of all character? and since there were persons who seemed to resort to it with such alacrity, it seemed to him highly expedient to prevent its being inflicted. This was the more necessary as the country were likely to be called out; and it was too much that the punishment of flogging should be inflicted
1314Sir F. Burdett,
 opposed the motion. The hon. baronet, by the amendment he had moved, would exempt the Local Militia from the regular discipline of the army, at a time when they were called upon to act as a regular army, while he left them exposed to the punishment of flogging, during their being raised and trained. The cases to which he had adverted, of Mr. Taylor and the men at the isle of Ely, were cases in which punishment was imperiously called for, and in which it had been inflicted with justice and moderation, as he believed would be admitted by the parties themselves; an acknowledgment of the justice of his sentence could be produced in the hand-writing of Mr. Taylor.Mr. Goulbourne
 said a few words in support of the original clause.Mr. Herbert, of Kerry,
1302130113001299 in rising to submit to the House a motion on the subject, did not feel that it would be necessary for him to trespass on their patience at any considerable length; or to adduce many arguments
1302130113001299Lord Castlereagh,
 wished that some clause had been introduced which would direct a reference to the Secretary of State, previous to the infliction of corporal punishment. He did not know, at the same time, how to vote with the hon. baronet, as he conceived a case might arise to make corporal punishment necessary.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill for declaring the seats of members, who should become bankrupt, vacant after a limited time. He did not think it necessary to preface his motion with any long speech. It was quite right, he thought, that a beggar should not be a member of that House. Its dignity and independence required that some measure of the nature of the present motion should be adopted. His Bill only went to assimilate the law of England to that now existing in Ireland. If an Irish member became bankrupt, his seat became vacant in six months after his bankruptcy, unless he produced a certificate from the commissioners. He did not know why English members should have privileges to which the Irish were not entitled.Mr. Thompson
 was of opinion that the preferable mode of proceeding would be for the House, in the first instance, to go into a committee to enquire into the privileges of members. He thought that adopting this measure at once would be to pass, in the public opinion, a great stigma on bankrupts, which, in the present state of the country, he could not think was altogether proper.Mr. Baring
 approved of the proposed measure, though the period of six months might not be sufficient in many cases to enable a correct idea to be formed as to the state of the bankrupt's affairs. He was, however, a friend to the measure, and thought that the publicity attendant on bankruptcy was one strong reason for the House adopting it.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 also approved of the measure.Mr. Lockhart
 apprehended it was too late to introduce a clause, but the hon. baronet could move an amendment to any clause he might object to, and doing so, he would have an opportunity of making any remarks he might win to offer.The Speaker
 said, that to his knowledge, the French prisoners at Gibraltar had borrowed our cats to flog their own people.Admiral Harvey
1310 considered Portugal to be defensible against the French arms chiefly at the lines of Torres Vedras, which were so strong as not to require so great an army as we had there, and which gave us a free communication with the sea, whereas our operations were conducted on a much more extensive scale between Ciudad Rodrigo and Badajoz, places which, if we got possession of them both, were not tenable, unless we had a military force perfectly capable of coping with the French forces in the open field. Both these places stood on plains: and the French, it should be recollected, were much superior to us in the number of their cavalry, and often had brought a much larger general force into the field. The war would be much less expensive, were the lines of Torres Vedras considered as the true defence of Portugal; by which means, instead of our keeping 60 or 70,000 men in Portugal, comparatively idle, or at least not in a state of military activity, we might detach just now, as we might have done before, a portion of our army to Cadiz, and raise the blockade of that city. A small portion of our army might also be sent to Catalonia, where they might reverse all the successes of the enemy: and we might act all along the margin of the Mediterranean with the best, effect. There were numerous small forts on the coast which we might get possession of, and thereby command all the neighbouring country. We might have done much oh the whole eastern side of Spain, at Valencia particularly, and might probably retake Barcelona. All this was not only useful but practicable at a much smaller expence than our present system. Thus we might have constantly checked and counteracted the objects of the French. This suggestion he did not make as his own. It had been the recommendation of others, as well as his, and seemed to be obvious to any body. For the principles on which it was founded, he had the advantage of great authority, which, he quoted. He
1310Lord Cochrane
 professed himself to be adverse to the infliction of corporal punishment in the Local Militia.Mr. H. Thornton
 supported the amendment, and contended that the abolition of flogging would tend not to relax, but to improve the discipline of the army. As to the book which they had been told was found, and afterwards lost, and which was to be taken such care of if found again, and for which he supposed the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would advertise, offering large sums for its production, as he had done for another celebrated book (the Delicate Investigation) on a former occasion, it seemed after all to make against his argument, as it turned out that there was no proof of corporal punishment being inflicted in the French service, to prove which it was brought forward.Mr. Whitbread
1305lsl13041303 denied that the noble lord had satisfied his mind with respect to the propriety of the proposed grant. The noble lord had adverted not to the general state of the war, but to the particular state of Portugal. To all that the noble lord had said in praise of the exertions of Portugal, he heartily subscribed. But he could not allow an additional burden of two millions to be imposed upon the country, without bringing back to the recollection of the committee the original object, for the attainment of which this grant was in the first instance voted. That object had failed, and therefore to continue such grants, was merely to persevere in a system of lavish expenditure, from which no satisfactory result could be expected. When the first grant of this nature was proposed, it was to afford British aid towards rescuing Spain from the gripe of France. At that time he concurred most cordially with the whole country in the effort. But four years have elapsed, and
1305lsl13041303Mr. Fremantle
 objected to a relaxation of discipline, though he thought severity of punishment in the Local Militia would be best avoided.Mr. Giddy
 was of opinion that the argument to be deduced from the circumstance last mentioned cut quite the other way, as it shewed that even a capital punishment was more tolerable to the French army, than that of flogging.Mr. W. Smith
 said it was believed in this country that corporal punishment was not inflicted in the French service. He, however, had to state, that one of their books had fallen into the hands of a division of our army, at the battle of Fuentes d'Honore, which contained the proceedings of their court martials, from which it appeared, that within a very short time, 320 men, chiefly deserters, had been sentenced to death. Not only in such cases was the offender put to death, but his parents might be imprisoned for six months, and those who had harboured him were fined 1,500 francs. The book was afterwards lost; but he was authorised by an officer to state what he had advanced, and if it were necessary, he was at liberty to mention the name of his author; and at the same time to say that if another book of that description fell into our hands, care would be taken of it, that gentlemen might see it and make their own comments.Colonel Wood
1309 observed, that if the principle were to be admitted that they were not to consider the existing state of their own finances, it might be fairly enough said, that they ought not to consider the amount of the proposed vote. As he viewed the matter, however, he thought they ought to take into consideration the means which this country possessed, and the object to which it was proposed that those means should be directed. He fancied, when he heard the noble lord speak of the taking of Ciudad Rodrigo, that he was riding the horse of the war minister, and had forgotten that he held now another office. With all his Quixotic notions, the noble lord surely could not mean to say, that there was any great success to be anticipated by taking that fortress,—that could not be his serious meaning. It was one of our worst symptoms, that the tone of the country and of that House was so changed. This he attributed to the vast increase of our military establishments; but that consideration should not deter him, any more than it ought any other member, from discharging his duty. He was surprised to hear it said that economizing was starving our operations. Was there no difference between hesitating at a vote of two millions and abandoning the war? Was there no middle way of proceeding? For his own part, he protested against its abandonment; but an hon. gentleman who spoke with much ability the other night (Mr. Robinson), as well as others, were obliged to maintain their arguments always by the presumption, that those who objected to expenditure were advocates for total abandonment. The vote was asked for the peculiar defence of Portugal. If the Portuguese really could not pay their own men, but yet would do all they could to raise them, he did not say that we should deny them any assistance;
1309Sir T. Turton
 was of opinion, that if corporal punishment was considered necessary in any part of the army, it was equally so in the Local Militia.Lord Palmerston
4 allowed, that great inconve-
4Mr. Stewart
5l rose for the purpose of moving, that the act of last session, making Bank Notes a legal tender, in certain cases, be continued under certain amendments, and that its provisions be extended to Ireland. It was not necessary, he observed, in this stage of the proceeding, to make many observations, but looking back to the discussion that took place last session when he introduced a similar measure, he was aware that the Bill (if the House permitted him to bring it in), would not pass without occasioning very considerable discussions. He would shortly slate the course which he would propose the House to adopt on the present occasion. He bad no intention whatever of hurrying the Bill through the House, as many gentlemen members for Ireland were at present necessarily engaged in that kingdom, and from the nature of their engagements at the different assizes would not be enabled to attend the discussions for some time; he should therefore propose to read the Bill a first and second lime before the holidays, to have it printed, and then to appoint some day after the recess for the commitment of it, in order that gentlemen from Ireland might be present at the discussion of the various provisions. He would now barely state the nature of the circumstances which induced him to recommend the continuance of the measure. He did not intend to make any other alteration in the provisions, further than extending the operation of the Bill to Ireland, and providing that payments of Bank notes into court, out of court, and in process of law, should be deemed legal payments. Since the passing of the last Bill, he had ascertained that in the courts of King's bench. Common Pleas, and Exchequer, there had been but three actions brought on the question of legality of tender. One was an action of replevin tried before lord Ellenborough, where a tender in Bank notes was proved; but in the present state of the law that was deemed not a sufficient answer to the action. The other was an action of my lord King against one of his tenants for the small sum of 455lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
76 said he was unable, even in that early stage of the business, to avoid
76Lord Folkestone
8 was not disposed at present to go into any arguments on the Bill, as frequent opportunities would hereafter occur for the discussion of its merits. He should only notice that the noble lord seemed to adhere to the opinions entertained by him last session, and to press his opposition before the Bill was brought in. He wished to correct him in two points, in which he appeared to be under misapprehension with respect to what he
8Lord Castlereagh
 explained, that he had a clear recollection on both the points, in which the noble lord had supposed him to be in error.Lord Folkestone
sds3 presented a Petition from the inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood of Belfast, setting forth,
sds3Lord Castlereagh
 said, in explanation, that there was a substantial distinction between compelling the acceptance of notes as a legal tender, and making them a legal tender into court.Lord Castlereagh
12 had never supposed that the opposition made by the right hon. gentleman, or those who acted with him, was for the purpose of destroying the credit of the country, but he had conceived that the enlightened policy, as it was called, proposed by them would, if adopted, have proved ruinous and ineffectual.—With respect to the charge of stoutness and disregard of being in a ma-
12The Chancellor of the Exchequer
15 thought the reason for opposing the motion extraordinary as urged by the deputy governor of the Bank, (Mr. Manning), namely, that the Bank had not required it. Did any public body come to parliament and ask for such an enquiry into their concerns? Nothing was more unlikely. He was far from wishing to overthrow the credit of the Bank, and he thought its credit would be best supported by a fair enquiry. What was said of the Bank would be as applicable to govern-
15Mr. Marryatt
16 said, that if we went on year after year borrowing, while we diminished our means of repayment, the nation like an individual, must come to a bankruptcy. If there were any reasonable
16Mr. Baring
 begged to call the attention of the House to the admission made by an hon. Bank Director (Mr. Baring) who acknowledged that perseverance in the present system would be attended with the ultimate ruin of the country, and yet contended, that not persevering in it would be equally destructive, because it would prevent us from vigorously prosecuting the war. Surely, when men of so much experience involved themselves in such evident contradictions, it was reasonable that some enquiry should be made. There was no guarantee that the Bank of England should not either increase their debt or diminish the small quantity of bullion remaining in their hands. When to these circumstances was subjoined, the declaration of the deputy governor of the Bank of England, that every acre of land in the country was pledged for the payment of their notes, he thought there could he no hesitation in appointing the committee.Mr. Abercromby
ll, in answer to the declaration of an hon. and learned gentleman, that all the land of the country might be confiscated to pay the Exchequer Bills in the possession of the Bank, observed, that it might as well be said, that a gentleman possessed of au estate of 10,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the observation he had made was, that there was not a sufficiency of bullion to enable the Bank to resume cash payments.Mr. Baring
 thought the motion unnecessary. It would not give the House any information that was not already in their possession.Mr. Baring
 contended, that it was never intended by the restrictions on the payment in specie, that the Bank should make the large sum which they had made out of the public distress. He attributed their unwillingness to show the state in which they were, not to any doubt of their solvency, but to their being ashamed of their profits. There was a provision in the charier of the Bank of England which required that a meeting should be called twice a year, at which meeting the profits of the Company should be exhibited. This provision had hitherto not been complied with; no doubt lest the public should be made acquainted with the enormous profits divided by the proprietors.Mr. Marryatt
 thought the Breakwater would not injure Plymouth Sound; and that if it should only hold four or five sail it was worth the expence. The enemy could not get out of Brest with a south wind.Captain Beresford
, of Kerry, said, that sir Samuel Bentham had asserted his having seen his plan carried into execution in foreign parts. Had this been enquired into?Mr. Herbert
 thought the proposed naval arsenal at Northfleet more necessary than the Breakwater in Plymouth Sound.Mr. Baring
 observed, that it was not competent to the noble lord to make such an amendment. All that the House could do was, directly to assent to or dissent from the motion for agreeing to the resolution.The Speaker
 said, that the money which, according to his proposition, might be raised from the holders of revenue offices, would be much better employed in dropping stones into Plymouth Sound, than in giving Burgundy, Champagne, and dances to the ladies of London.Lord Cochrane
 imputed the supposed necessity for this Breakwater to the usage of making men of war take in their masts, &c. in open roadsteads, instead of going into harbour for that purpose; a practice which occasioned the greatest discontent in the navy, as it prevented the sailors from ever getting on shore. Under the existing circumstances of the country, he thought every expence not absolutely necessary ought to be avoided, but, if he might be permitted to do so, he would move as an amendment to the question before the House, "That towards the construction of this Breakwater, a duty of 50 per cent. be levied on all Sinecures, which the committees of parliament had declared ought to be abolished, and a duty of 20 per cent. on all other sinecures."Lord Cochrane
 supported the motion. It would be a great evil to make a Bank-note a legal tender. He bore testimony to the honourable conduct of the Bank Directors, who, he believed, acted from the purest ideas of supporting commerce; but he thought that there would be great doubts in the public mind, unless parliament appointed a committee, as they had done in 1797.Mr. Hibbert
l would vote for the motion, though he disclaimed all idea of imputation upon the conduct of the Bank Directors, who had shewn more moderation in the issue of paper-money than had been practised in any other country, when that expedient had been adopted. He could not agree with his right hon. friend, that the Bank were masters of the minister: but the contrary. It was the fault, not of the Bank but of parliament, that things were in their present situation. If the Bank were left to itself, he should have no fear of the proposition of a legal tender. He wished the country to know what were the assets of the Bank independent of what consisted in government securities, which latter (in Exchequer Bills) amounted at this moment to no less a sum than 7,500,000lMr. Johnstone
, in reply, insisted that the issue of Bank notes had been greatly augmented since the year 1797, and as Exchequer Bills were secured by the notes, the landed property of the country was put in jeopardy at the will of the directors of the Bank of England. He begged to know if the other side of the House would consent to the production of an account shewing the quantity of Exchequer Bills purchased by the Bank of England from government in the public market, which had been hitherto with-held?Mr. Tierney
, in explanation, said, that he had not represented the Bank as great and flourishing, and abounding in wealth. He allowed that they had made great profits; but his next motion would shew how he thought they had dissipated those profits. In consequence of the restrictions imposed on their payment in specie, the Bank had certainly made enormous profits; but these they had divided among themselves, and for aught he and the country knew, had left nothing for their creditors.Mr. Tierney
18 then moved for an account of all sums divided by the Bank of England, on their capital, from 5th Jan. 1787,
18Mr. Tierney
 said, that the right hon. gentleman was mistaken in supposing, that he would not oppose any measure brought forward by him; he would give no such pledge, as he never saw any gentleman whom he was so much inclined to oppose.Mr. Tierney
13 immediately moved, "That a
13Mr. Tierney
11ad ignotum per ignota10ll9 would not oppose the motion for leave to bring in the Bill, but observed that it was very evident from the speech of the right hon. gentleman him self, that the country was already in the situation which bad been predicted last session, namely, in a situation of moving from bad to worse. He asked in what respect did this measure fall short of making Bank notes a legal tender? The answer was, that they were to be legal tenders only in a court of justice. But what law was there which could compel any man to part with his goods or property contrary to his inclination? The fact was, that this Bill went to affect immediately all interests and every class of society. If he
11ad ignotum per ignota10ll9Mr. Tierney
14 objected to the motion. The amount of Exchequer Bills and loans, &c. was generally known. If the question stood on the solvency of the Bank, then it ought to go to the committee that a report might be made, which would shew that an opinion adverse to the Bank's solvency
14Mr. H. Thornton
, although he objected to the former motion, supported this, on the ground that all possible information on the state of the Bank should be afforded to the public.Mr. Barham
 stated, that the bonuses divided among the proprietors of Bank stock, since 1787, amounted to 32½ per cent. on the capital.Mr. Grenfell
 presented a Petition from the Frame Work Knitters of Leicester, praying for the Repeal of the Orders in Council, in as far as regarded America, and also against the renewal of the East India Company's charter. The hon. member assured the House, that the present Petitioners had uniformly conducted themselves in the most orderly and becoming manner, and now came to the House, praying that the final stab might not, by a war with America, be a ruin to their manufactures. The present Petition was signed by 11,000 persons.Mr. Samuel Smith
 ridiculed the distinction drawn by the noble lord, which, he contended, amounted to nothing.Mr. Whitbread
l22 had the highest respect for Mr. Rennie as a civil engineer; but at the same time he thought any thing coming from sir Samuel Bentham, civil engineer of the navy, was deserving of great consideration some of whose objections to
l22Mr. Whitbread
l brought up the report of the Committee of Supply. On the motion for agreeing to the resolution for granting 80,000lMr. Lushington
2 concurred in bearing testimony to the temperate and orderly conduct of the manufacturers in Leicestershire who cast their eyes only to that House for relief. They now trusted to the wisdom of that House to avert from them, in the words of their Petition, the greatest of all calamities, starvation in a land of plenty.2Mr. Babington
ll objected to the motion; and stated, that the Bill which had been brought in that night was not introduced at the desire or request of the Bank of England, any more than the Bill of last session, commonly called Lord Stanhope's Bill. He spoke not in the character of a Bank Director, but from himself alone. In that view, he could not see any necessity for the committee which was proposed. If, indeed, the Bank Directors had desired the present measure, he should think it a sufficient reason for the appointment of a committee. The actual amount of the issue of Bank notes at present was 22,500,000llMr. Manning
 thought this motion an unnecessary interference with the internal concerns of the Bank. Every one knew what those dividends had been.Mr. Manning
 explained, and re-stated, that lord Stanhope's Bill was not desired by the Bank.Mr. Manning
 explained that he had said, that his own land as well as that of every other proprietor, was answerable in a due proportion for the payment of the Exchequer Bills, which was a public debt of the nation.Mr. Manning
 agreed that there would be great injustice, if the enactments of the Bill, which had been passed as applicable to England, during the last year, were not now extended to Ireland. He was happy, therefore, that his right hon. friend, (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had determined to extend the provisions of the Bill which he was about to move for leave to bring in, to Ireland, thereby communicating the same advantages to one part of the empire as to the other.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 held the objection of a fleet getting out of Brest before it was possible to get out of the Breakwater perfectly nugatory. He lamented that the work was not begun in 1806.Sir Charles Pole
212019 said:—Mr. Speaker, I did not presume to trespass upon the patience of the House, when it was in a; committee on the subject of Plymouth Breakwater. It was in deference. Sir, to the many senior and much more enlightened officers who are now in your presence; I avail myself, however, of this opportunity to record my sentiments on the subject, I am anxious to do so, as two reports have been industriously circulated, which have no foundation the first, that I intended to resist the grant. On the contrary Sir, I think too much credit cannot be given to the First Lord of the Ad-
212019Sir Home Popham
 spoke in favour of the measure; and hoped that the hon. and gallant officer (sir H. Popham) would not press the question of opposing a committee of naval officers. He should have no hesitation of running into the Breakwater in a gale of wind, for which, in his opinion, his right hon. relation (Mr. Yorke) would long live in the recollection of the navy.Sir Joseph Yorke
23 said, the Breakwater would in a very few years, by the saving it would occasion, more than repay its expence, He thought that both the arsenal at North-
23Mr. Yorke
 approved of the measure.Sir R. Bickerton
31 said, that he rose for the purpose of moving for an Account of the total amount of money raised for the public service, in each year, from 1790 to 1811, by taxes, or by increase of the National Debt; and
31Mr. Baring
32 said, that before he made the motion with which he meant to conclude, he wished first to remove from the minds of gentlemen any misconception, relative to the existence of any insufficiency of a supply of corn in Ireland. It was not his wish to spread any alarm of scarcity, and this he thought necessary to specify, because it too frequently happened, that the discussion of a subject was a sufficient ground for alarm. It was true, that in some local districts some deficiency might be found to exist, and, on that account, he thought it incumbent on the Irish government to direct their attention to the subject, that if no ground for apprehension was found to exist, the public clamour or alarm might be silenced. In another point of view,
32Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
36 said, that the consumption of grain in the Irish distilleries was prodigious, as besides the consumption of that country, Ireland exported near a thousand puncheons of spirits a week. He thought that in determining this question, the price of corn in this country ought to be attended to as well as the price of corn in Ireland. It was evident that while there was a free intercourse of corn between the two Countries, the price of it in Ireland must be affected by the price of it
36Mr. Marryatt
30presented a Petition from the inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood of Bolton-in-the-Moors, assembled pursuant to public advertisement, setting forth,30Mr. Whitbread
s3433 said, that he had no objection to grant the information required by the hon. gentleman. In the general view which the hon. gentleman had taken of the subject, he perfectly agreed. He understood the hon. gentleman to state, that he did not think that there was any ground for apprehending that there was a scarcity of grain in Ireland. He had taken every means in his power to obtain the most accurate information upon this subject, and he was convinced there was no danger of scarcity. It was true that the prices of grain were very different in different parts of Ireland, but that Variety of price did not arise from any deficiency of grain. Very unpleasant circumstances bad occurred in different parts of Ireland, where
s3433Mr. W. Pole
 said, in explanation, that the right hon. baronet understood him in a stronger sense than he intended—he merely meant to state in fairness, that the difference in price might make it a question whether some limits should not be put to it.Mr. W. Pole
35 entirely agreed in the opinion, that there was nothing like a scarcity to be apprehended, and that where any deficiency existed, it arose from the stoppage of the regular intercourse through the country, by which alone plenty could be ensured. The farmer locked up his corn in his granaries, and the people defeated their own objects. He believed that at all times there was a considerable advance on oats at this season of the year, particularly when the crop of potatoes failed; and it was to be recollected that the distilleries had laid in their stock, and their demand ceased at this time. Above
35Sir John Newport
9695 presented a Petition from several inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood of Blackburn, in the county of Lancaster, setting forth, "That, in the exercise of those inestimable rights with which the constitution of the country has invested them, the Petitioners venture to lay before the House their sentiments and feelings on subjects of the highest importance to their national and individual welfare; and that in the institution of the authorities of the House, the Petitioners behold that link which unites them to the throne, and to the House, as the Representatives of the people, they direct their confidence and expectations; the immediate connection of the House with those whose suffrages have entrusted to them the preservation of the interests of the Petitioners, naturally emboldens them to look to their sympathy for commiseration, to their wisdom for direction, and to their measures for redress; they will therefore state, with respectful submission, the circumstances on which their claims to the attention of the House are founded, and, in making this appeal to them, they are persuaded, that not only are their own convictions expressed, but the known undisguised and avowed convictions of thousands in every part of the united empire; and that the Petitioners reside in the most populous of the manufacturing counties, and unhappily possess the means of accurately observing the effects of protracted war and restricted commerce; in ascertaining those effects, it will be sufficient for them to state the high price of all the necessaries of life, the unparalleled and long-continued reduction of wages, the frequent interruptions of labour, the consequent difficulty of obtaining a bare subsistence, the rapid advancement of parochial rates, the increasing deficiencies in. the collection of assessed taxes, the exhaustion of the little stores by which the more laborious and provident formerly hoped to obtain a trifling elevation above absolute poverty, the gradual disappearance of the middling classes, which are fast melting down into the lower orders of the community, and the certain prospect of evil still more injurious to the individual sufferers, and to the interests of the country at large; these are some of the consequences of that state of things which is so poignantly to be deplored, and the causes and removal of which, the Peti-
9695Mr. Blackburn
 replied, that he did not feel authorised to postpone the second reading of the Bill, and must therefore move that the Bill be now read a second time.Lord Ossulston
 supported the Bill in a speech of considerable length, but in a tone of voice altogether inaudible.Lord Ossulston
 supported the Bill, and thought that those interested in Drury-lane theatre opposed this application with a very bad grace, when it was considered how much parliament had done for them, to get them out of their embarrassments. Their monopoly alone would not have enabled them to re-build their theatre, if it had not been for the assistance of parliament.Mr. Browne
RP"G. RPl101"His royal highness the Prince Re-gent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, thinks it necessary to ac-quaint the House of Commons, that in
l101RP"George RP presented the following Message from the Prince Regent:
RP"G. RPl101"His royal highness the Prince Re-gent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, thinks it necessary to ac-quaint the House of Commons, that in
l101RP"George RPThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 spoke in favour of Mr. Bentham's plan, though he had never recommended its unqualified adoption. He would vote with his hon. and learned friend against proceeding farther that night, and hoped he would take the sense of the House on the subject.Mr. Abercromby
 stated his objections to various parts of Mr. Bentham's plan. He strongly opposed the amendment, on account of the delay it would occasion. He was desirous of making the plan as perfect as possible; but he could see no advantage likely to result from postponing the Committee on the Bill, as he conceived the thinness of the House was to be in a great measure ascribed to a feeling on the part of the members absent, that to attend on this occasion was unnecessary.Mr. Secretary Ryder
102 lamented that the subject should be discussed in so thin a House. One of his principal objections to the plan now suggested had been removed, namely, that the institution was calculated to receive so few offenders. Still, however, the objects to which it was to apply were too much restricted, as criminals convicted in London and Middlesex were only to be
102Sir S. Romilly
 said, he had no wish to oppose the motion of his hon. and learned friend for leave to bring in the Bills. He should mark the progress of the Bills, however, through the House, and should take an opportunity of proposing clauses granting compensations to the persons who were at present in possession of the offices referred to, without which he could not consent to the Bills now proposed passing into a law.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the amendment, on the ground of the absence of many hon. and legal members on the assizes, whose opinions it would be satisfactory to receive on this question.Mr. C. Adams
 rose, in consequence of in-formation he had received, that it was in-tended to oppose the principle of the Bill. He entered into a minute examination of the plan of Mr. Bentham, which, he contended, was wholly inadequate to the object; and he drew a comparison between it and the scheme he had the honour of proposing to the House this session. He dwelt particularly on the benefits likely to result from the management being placed in the hands of a committee, instead of an individual controulable only by the court of King's-bench.Mr. Holford
98 maintained that the inhabitants of this vast metropolis had a right to be amply provided with rational
98Mr. Holme Sumner
104 rose, agreeably to the notice which he had repeatedly renewed, to
104Mr. Henry Martin
 said, he should be prepared to meet the right hon. gentleman on this subject, whenever the proper stage for doing so should arise.Mr. Martin
 rose to give his decided negative to the motion. He was fully prepared to say, that no adequate ground whatever had been laid for the proposition now submitted. It had been said, that the population was greatly increased, but it could be proved (hat the enlargement of the theatres had more than corresponded with the real increase in the number of play-going people. An account of the receipts and disbursements would even shew that this number of late had diminished, while on the contrary the expences of representation had greatly augmented. But there were other objections to the Bill, inasmuch as it went to supersede the royal prerogative of granting licences for dramatic exnibition. The patents now existing had been granted for national purposes, and ought to be defended against the encroachments of those who, on the plea of an increased population, were only seeking their own private advantage. He concluded by moving, That the Bill be read a second time that day six months.Mr. Peter Moore
 observed, in reply to the reference of his hon. and learned friend, that certainly no person was more anxious than Mr. Pitt, that some plan similar to that now proposed, should be adopted. Mr. Dundas was also of the same opinion, but he was not prepared to say that they were particularly attached to Mr. Bentham's plan, (which though it had many good parts, and contained much that might be adopted) it was impossible any person could wholly approve, who had attentively examined it.Mr. Long
97 requested that the noble lord who had the conduct of the measure, would put off the second reading until Monday, in order to give an opportunity for a right hon. friend of his (Mr. Sheri-
97Mr. Whitbread
ll10099 was sorry that the noble lord could not consent to put off his motion, during the indisposition of his right hon. friend, who was so much interested in the question. He owned that he was, as he had been represented by the noble lord, a most zealous promoter of the re-building of Drury-lane, solely through motives of friendship, and of course he might be naturally expected to oppose the present Bill. In the arduous task he had thus undertaken, he had, however, received some encouragement from the speech of the hon. gentleman who spoke last, and provided Drury-lane could be built in the commodious way recommended by the hon. gentleman, and which he hoped should be the case, he trusted that the hon. gentleman would recommend him some of those excellent tragedians, which, cording to him, were so easy to be found, and which he probably kept behind the curtain until proper encouragement should be offered. The hon. gentleman had complained, that in many parts of the town, people were too far from the theatre. This objection might be pushed a great way indeed, perhaps as far as to furnish a theatre to each particular individual. Three years ago the House was petitioned for a third theatre, the petitions were then
ll10099Mr. Whitbread
 moved an instruction to the Committee, that provision should be made, that persons convicted of felony, without benefit of clergy, should be kept to hard labour.Mr. Kenrick
 saw no inconvenience in putting it off for so short a period as that proposed by his hon. and learned friend.Mr. W. Smith
 gave his testimony to the value of Mr. Bentham's plan, not indeed without amendments, which it had ever courted, and could not, therefore, be considered as pretending to perfection. He particularly eulogised that part of it which provided for the restoration of the criminal to society in a manner which would not, as it were, compel him to a renewal of his vicious courses. He trusted this system would put an end to transportation, except for life, to those whom it was expedient to banish altogether from their countrymen.Mr. Wilberforce
 opposed the Bill, as ill-timed, when Drury-lane was rising like a phœnix from its ashes. The delay mentioned in the amendment, could not go the length of rejecting totally the principle of the Bill, but would give the House time to see, whether or no the public would be well accommodated at Drury-lane; and in case that establishment did not answer the expectations which had been formed, then he firmly believed, that the Bill would not want support. He had no objection to new speculations in theatres, or any thing else; but, it should be recollected, that the framers of the Bill had grounded their first application on the improbability of Drury-lane being ever rebuilt, but now the progress in the re-construction had surpassed the most sanguine expectations. He should, in consequence, vote for the amendment.Sir T. Turton
 was against any further postponement. It had appeared, from the report of the Committee, that the situation of the felons in the several gaols of the metropolis called for the most prompt attention. He objected to the plan of making the prisoners a public spectacle, which, in his opinion, had a tendency to defeat the main object, namely, that of affording them every opportunity of solitary reflection upon the nature of their offences, and the justice of their punishment.Mr. Bathurst
 apprehended that there was no necessity to order the attendance of Mr. Campbell, as the mere statement of the matter of privilege to the House, would be sufficient to induce the officer to discharge him out of custody; therefore all that was necessary to be done was, to order the officer to attend to answer the complaint.Mr. Lockhart
lll115 was not disposed to place much reliance on the statement read by the hon. general; for it was well known, that in all the petty corporate towns of the kingdom, the mayor and corporation were always eager, and mostly interested in supporting the measures of the minister of the day, and were ready to proclaim them as the best possible for the interests of the country. But he could not help remarking, the great injury that must result from misrepresentations of topics of this nature, and from statements of the flourishing state of our commerce, when the fact was notoriously the reverse. If
lll115Mr. Baring
s116 in explanation, denied that he stated that the shipping of Liverpool was in a prosperous state, nor had he said
s116Mr. Rose,
 If the right hon. gentleman will enquire at the Transport Board, he will find himself mistaken as to the price of transport tonnage.Mr. Baring
 replied, that he had enquired, and the hon. gentleman would find himself entirely mistaken in his statement.Mr. Rose
117 conceived the House would not think he acted correctly, were he to allow the observations of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Creevey) to pass unnoticed. The tone and manner of the hon. gentleman, when talking of the appointment of the District Inspector of Liverpool, must have impressed on the House an opinion that he felt most warmly for some old client, as the hon. gentleman was pleased to term this surveyor, to whom he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had owed a good turn for former favours, and therefore thought the best thing that could be done for old friendship was to get hint to surcharge his fellow townsmen, for which purpose he had appointed him to a situation in which he might carry his object into effect. So the hon. gentleman wished the House to understand. It appeared from the statement of the hon. gentleman, that this old client and new protege, so anxious to carry on his purpose, had under him a person of very delicate nerves, who, not being able to follow his superior officer in his duties, had thought I proper to resign. Now, with respect to this attorney and client, he had no knowledge whatever, but he did recollect something of the gentleman under him of delicate nerves—the same, he supposed, from whom the hon. gentleman had collected his correct information—who had been called upon to account for some misconduct, and this call had so alarmed him, that he had thought it better to resign.—He did recollect that another person was appointed upon the recommendation of Mr. Lowndes, and that person, he imagined, was the old client spoken of, but of whom he had not the most distant recollection. Now, it would become the hon. gentleman,
117The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would merely repeat, that the information was quite new to him, of any person having been appointed to surcharge his neighbours in Liverpool.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated his wish that the right hon. gentleman opposite would take this opportunity of explaining the conditions of the proposed licences. He was also anxious lo know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended lo bring forward this year any proposition on the subject of the East India Company's Charter.Mr. Baring
 declined introducing a subject so extraneous to the present petition, but was ready to meet any discussion upon it that the hon. gentleman might propose.Mr. Rose
118 in reply to the question of the right hon. gentleman, wished to give notice, that shortly after the recess he should bring forward a
118The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 had no doubt, that Liverpool felt considerable distress in common with other commercial towns throughout the kingdom. But the statements of the hon. gentleman appeared to him extremely loose, founded mostly upon hearsay, and greatly exaggerated; for he had understood from unquestionable authority, that the persons reported to be receiving charity, were not receiving parochial aid, but merely that kind of assistance furnished by what was called a soup committee. He was also enabled to state, that three or four years ago, between 7 and 8,000 persons more than the number already mentioned, had received similar assistance. As to the number of ships for sale, he had been informed from good authority, that the whole number of ships lying unemployed in the harbour of Liverpool, did not exceed 24, and of these, some were just returned from their voyages, and others were under repair. Neither was the Salt trade entirely gone, as the hon. gentleman had asserted; and upon the whole the decay of commerce in Liverpool was less considerable than might be expected, considering that it was the great mart for the American trade.Mr. Rose
 answered, that the expression he had employed in the debate upon this subject had been misunderstood and misrepresented. He had not stated, that he had any reason to believe that persons educated at Maynooth had employed any undue means to propagate their religion. He had no hesitation in repeating what he had said upon that occasion, which was, that he wished the institution had never existed, as it had afforded the means of spreading Catholicism in districts where the Protestant faith had before been prevalent. On this account he had resisted the extension of the grant.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 observed, that the hon. member being in possession of all the facts, he could, if he thought fit, bring the matter formally under the consideration of the House. He admitted, that before the infirmity of the King no private secretary had been appointed; but from the great accumulation of public business, from various causes, those who expected that the person occupying the throne could fulfil all his functions without assistance, would look for impossibilities.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 inquired whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have any objection to mention who advised the appointment?Mr. Ward
 I have not the least difficulty in stating, that I advised it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
122 suggested the propriety of passing a special enactment, by which it should be provided that appointments under
122Mr. Wynn
 replied, that he thought the act, as it was now worded, would include both: if not, however, the defect could be remedied. He was not at all prepared to say that appointments to offices under the Regent, as duke of Cornwall, were, or whether they ought to be embraced by it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that his question referred to appointments of lords of the bedchamber, &c. under the Prince Regent. In such cases the act might perhaps be evaded.Mr. Wynn
 moved the order of the day, for the House going into a Committee of Supply, to take into consideration the Message of the Prince Regent. On the motion, that the House do now resolve itself into the said Committee,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that by the Gazette it appeared, that colonel M'Mahon had been appointed to the office of Keeper of the Privy Purse and Private Secretary to the Prince Regent. He wished to be informed by the right hon. gentleman opposite, what salary was attached to these places, and what were the duties belonging to them, as he was completely ignorant upon the subject, not knowing until now that any such situation as Private Secretary to the Regent existed?The Hon. J. W. Ward
121 admitted the fact of the appointment. He presumed that the hon. member was not ignorant that colonel Taylor had held the same
121The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that his object was to obtain information as to the duties of the office.Mr. Ward
 said, that the duties were various and important, although the offices would carry with them no official sanction, as the Secretary of state for the Home Department would still continue to be the fit organ for receiving and communicating the pleasure of the Prince Regent.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 with respect to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman respecting the securities of stockholders, had to observe, that by an act of the 47th of the King, it was provided, that if in any quarter the consolidated fund should be found unequal to the charges on it, the first supplies of the year were to be applied in aid of it, and this he conceived was sufficient to make the Stockholders easy about their securities.Mr. Rose,
126lllllllllllllllll125ll had to offer a very few words on what had fallen from the hon. gentleman opposite, who had again stated what was likely to produce a very improper effect upon the public mind, if permitted to go abroad uncontradicted. The hon. gentleman had stated, that a diminution in the consolidated fund had taken place equal to 3,500,000126lllllllllllllllll125llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
129llllllllll128ll observed that the House roust be aware in what situation their royal highnesses the Princesses stood, with regard to the former parliamentary grant. An act had been passed in the 18th and another in the 39th of his present Majesty, empowering him to make a grant (contingently in the event of his Majesty's demise) of 30,000129llllllllll128llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
l134ll would not think himself justified in voting for the motion, unless some additional reasons were adduced to remove the objections he still had on his mind. He had himself first objected to the perplexed manner in which the right hon. gentleman had brought forward the measures for the support of the royal family in the present circumstances; he had repeatedly called for a clear and distinct account on that head, and was convinced that the House could not in duly proceed to grant further sums without having first obtained such an account. The present motion was, besides, founded on grounds utterly false; it went, not to fulfil the provisions of former acts, but to anticipate them, and to give the Princesses the present enjoyment of those annuities, which, under those acts, they could not expect till after the demise of the King. The additional grant of 10,000l134llMr. Ponsonby
ll140 thought it very unfair to rest the present question upon the merits and the virtues of the Princesses, who were the immediate subjects of the present discussion. This was invidious, as it threw a kind of odium on those who might oppose the grant, as if they were not as ready as others to acknowledge those merits and those virtues. The liberal grants, however, which parliament had formerly voted for the royal family, were not intended merely for their support, but for the support also
ll140Mr. Wynn
l141 felt himself called upon, to reply to something which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman opposite. He was, however, in part anticipated in what he wished to observe by his hon. friend, who had just sat down; because in his opinion, nothing was so unfair as to throw any thing like an odium on those who opposed such a measure as the present, by inferring that they entertained an inadequate opinion of the merits and characters of those, who were the objects of the bounty of the House. The merit of the Princesses made no part of the object of consideration of the House, otherwise, this grant would have been made many years ago; because they did not come into all the good qualities which they were in possession of, since the commencement of his Majesty's unfortunate malady. They were amiable before this period; but this was no part of the consideration of the case. The question was merely whether parliament ought to anticipate the period when they were engaged to make provision for the Princesses? The grounds which the House ought to consider, were, whether the Princesses were likely to be put into a situation speedily to incur greater expences than their present income could afford? But on this subject, the right hon. gentleman had no
l141Mr. Ponsonby
 conceived that the present application to parliament for additional sums to the royal family, while there were so many indications of distress throughout almost every part of the country, was exceedingly ill timed. At any rate, when an application was made on account of the Princesses, he hoped the right hon. gentleman opposite would give them some information, why no suitable provision was to be proposed for the Princess of Wales, the wife of the Prince Regent. He asked the right hon. gentleman, because he was aware, that no one knew more of the subject than he did—no one was more in the secret of what was called "the Delicate Investigation." Why was "he now, as wife of the Prince Regent, not to have the same state, the same drawing rooms, and the same splendour, as the wife of the King? What was there that had happened which made it improper that she should appear in the station of a queen at a time that her husband performed the functions of royalty, and represented the person of the King? Every body had heard a good deal about books that were to have been published, and libels that were suppressed; and they had seen advertisements in the newspapers offering large sums of money for suppressed copies of these libellous books. Now there certainly must be considerable information in some quarter or other about these matters, and as the right hon. gentleman had been long the confidential adviser and counsellor of her Royal Highness, he hoped that he would not now desert his friend in her utmost need, but that he Would state what was the reason for her being so neglected and passed by upon this occasion. As for himself, he did not, feel disposed to vote another shilling until the corrupt expenditure of the public money was restrained, and the necessary retrenchment made, both as to sinecures and other branches of the public expence.Mr. Bennet
138l137l could not refrain from taking notice of the contradiction between the latter part of the hon. gentleman's speech and that which preceded it the hon. gentleman concluded by saving, that he would not vote a shilling of the public money till corruption and sinecure places were done away; and yet in the former part of his speech he "had asked, why had not the Princess of Wales drawing rooms like the Queen, and the same slate and splendour? The hon. gentleman should have been aware, however, that if she was to have this additional state and splendour, there must be an additional grant of money; and yet the hon. gentleman was not disposed to vote a shilling towards it. As to all the questions which had been put to him on the subject of the Delicate Investigation," he should say nothing. The difference alluded to was certainly an unfortunate circumstance; but neither as minister, nor confidential adviser of his Royal Highness did he feel himself called upon to make any specific statement to the House on the subject. With regard to the grant of an additional 10,000138l137lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as for what he was bound to do from regard to the country and his own character, he should always judge for himself. He did not know in what capacity, or with what exact view, the right hon. gentleman came forward thus to question him; but he had no objection whatever to state, that neither in his capacity of counsellor to her Royal Highness, nor in any other character whatever, had he any charge against her Royal Highness, or the means of bringing forward any charge, and that he never meant to cast the slightest reflection upon her. He would say nothing further on the subject. As to this discussion, he had no delegated authority; no commands to propose an additional grant for the Princess of Wales. Nevertheless, if he could collect that it was the sense of parliament that such additional provision should be made, he made no doubt but that he would shortly be fully authorized to recommend it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that what he had stated with respect to the Princess of Wales, was, that neither in his situation as counsel to her Royal Highness, nor in any other character, was he conscious that there existed a ground of charge against her. He should always be prepared to make the same statement.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion that the only question now before the House was whether the annuity now proposed was fit to be granted to the Princesses? He was clearly of opinion it was no more than what was demanded, and of course the resolution had his decided support.Mr. Lockhart
 moved the second reading of this Bill.Mr. Thompson
 thought great credit was due to the hon. gentleman who introduced this Bill into the House. So far were the provisions of it from imposing a particular hardship, that the various existing statutes, if they were strictly interpreted, would in his opinion disqualify a bankrupt from retaining his seat, and would authorise a motion for a new writ in the case of a bankruptcy. Now the proposed measure did not go to an immediate removal; but left the possibility of ultimately retaining the seat. He did not doubt that many bankrupts entertained sentiments of high honour; but such an argument as that, on that account alone, they should not vacate their seats, went against all qualifications whatever.Mr. Lockhart
148 allowed that the existing law was anomalous: for Irish members becoming bankrupts, vacated their seats, while English members
148The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, that his object was to preserve, as much as possible, the independence of parliament, and to prevent persons who possessed no qualification, from sitting in that House, and making laws for the community. No doubt there were honourable bankrupts, but nine cases of bankruptcy out of ten, were attributable to folly and imprudence. A country magistrate would look shyly at a justice, who presumed to sit on the bench and admister the law, after having paid his creditors a shilling or half a crown in the pound; nor did he think such a person much more fit for a legislator.Mr. Thompson
ll observed, that the 300llMr. Wynn
 observed, that it was contrary to order for any member to refer to expressions employed by any member on a former debate, as a ground for calling for documents to prove the veracity or falsity of the assertion.The Speaker
111 observed, that the course of proceeding was so clear, that it was unnecessary for him to interpose his opinion before putting the question. The course proposed by the hon. mover was the ordinary parliamentary course, namely, to require the attendance of the two parties before the House—the one to stale the cause and manner of his arrest, and the other lo give such answer to the charge as
111The Speaker
112 presented a Petition from the merchants, ship owners, tradesmen, and other inhabitants of the town of Liverpool,112General Tarleton
s114 said, that having received a representation from a number of his constituents, on the subject of the statement some time ago made by his hon. friend (Mr. Creevey), he had read it to the house, on a former night, though in his
s114General Tarleton
119 then presented a Petition from the mayor, bailiffs and burgesses of the town of Liverpool, in common council assembled, setting forth,119General Tarleton
 also presented a Petition from the Trustees of the Liverpool Docks, setting forth,General Tarleton
 considered this subject of the conduct and character of the Princess of Wales improperly introduced in the present question, and by a sort of side wind. Such a consideration was not before the committee, and he thought it unfair to hamper the right hon. gentleman in the way the right hon. gentlemen opposite were attempting.Mr. C. Adams
 made a complaint against a person of the name of Hindson, an officer of the sheriff of Surrey, for having arrested a person of the name of Campbell, who was on his way to be examined before a Committee of that House. The hon. member stated, that he was chairman of the committee appointed to enquire into the state and condition of the transports. It being necessary to examine Mr. Campbell, he on Friday issued his precept, requiring his attendance, and that person was in obedience to that precept, on his way to the committee room, when he was arrested by Hindson, Campbell shewed the officer the precept, but the latter disregarded the order and carried him to a place of confinement, where he now remained. In such case, the hon. member observed, he should follow the practice which was adopted on similar occasions, and which was also recognised by the judges of the courts below, who always protected witnesses in going and coming to their courts, and move," That Richard Hindson, officer of the sheriff of Surrey, and Mr. Campbell, do attend this House tomorrow. "—On the question being put,Mr. Eden
143ll said, he rose to ask the right hon. gentleman no question, for he saw that he was likely to get no answer; but he thought they were entitled to conclude, from the sullen silence of the right hon. gentleman, that he sanctioned with his approbation the separation between the Prince and Princess. (Cry of No, no, from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.) The right hon. gentleman cried No—then let him give his reasons for his present conduct. (Cries of No, and Hear!) The Princess Regent had not one farthing more assured to her than 5,000143llMr. Tierney
144 contended, that it was when grants were making for all the other branches of the royal family, that a proposal for an increased establishment of the Princess of Wales might be expected. But the right hon. gentleman now gave the House to understand, that if they absolutely would have it so, why then he would abate something of his dignity, and comply with their desire so far as to recommend a grant to her Royal Highness. But in saying that he was not authorised,—that he had no commands to bring forward such a measure, the right hon. gentleman was declaring, in other words, that he had not advised such a measure. He was glad, however, to have heard the right hon. gentleman state distinctly, that he knew no charge against her Royal
144Mr. Tierney
131llllllllllll130lllllll presumed that the right hon. gentleman, in proposing to give 9,000131llllllllllll130lllllllMr. Tierney
147 could not see why persons who had suffered so severe an execution as an act of bankruptcy, should be more hardly punished than those who suf-
147Mr. H. Smith
 though he felt himself inclined to support a separate establishment for the Princesses, considered himself called upon to oppose the grant at present. Some enquiry ought to take place, proving the necessity of throwing such an additional burden on the people. He could see no inconvenience in the House waiting till the report of the committee on the Civil List came before them. For his part, he wished to adopt the prudent precaution of waiting the result of the investigations of that committee, before he would venture to throw the whole, or any part of such a burden on the people.Mr. H. Thornton,
l agreed with the hon. gentleman who spoke last, that they ought to wait till the report of the committee was before them. He remembered well when the settlement of the civil list came lately under their consideration, that the right hon. gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did state, as a ground for the House to vote the 10,000lMr. Wrottesley
 thought that it would be a hard case, in times like the present, for any man, who, by accident, might become a bankrupt, to be compelled to vacate his seat.Mr. Wrottesley
 conceived the best mode of judging of the state of the town, would be to take the medium between the two accounts; most certainly there had been a considerable diminution in the trade. It had been stated by his hon. friend, on a former occasion, that there were 56 ships unemployed: not one half of that number, however, were for sale. When it was recollected that three fourths of the trade of Liverpool was to America, could it be thought extraordinary that there was a stagnation? He trusted that the inconvenience would be of a temporary nature only; the chief cause of the distress arose from the depression of the colonial trade.General Gascoyne
 said, that he wished to put some questions to the right hon. gentleman, not as the confidential adviser of the Prince or his consort, but as the minister of this country. He wished to ask him in that capacity, why he had recommended an additional grant for the Princesses, and had entirely overlooked the person who was so much nearer to the throne than they were? He asked this question on public grounds, and he asked it of the right hon. gentleman, not as the adviser of the Prince, but as the minister of the country. Ha called upon the right hon. gentleman to state why no additional splendour was to be attached to the Princess of Wales, the wife of the Prince Regent.Mr. Barham
 agreed, that the only question now for the consideration of the House was, the propriety of the grant now proposed to the Princesses. Whether an additional establishment should be made for the Princess of Wales was not a question before the House. He must deprecate the manner in which the right hon. gentleman, (Mr. Perceval) had been catechised on this subject.—It was unparliamentary, indelicate, and improper.—With family matters that House had nothing to do, and in at all interfering, gentlemen might widen, instead of healing, any breach which unfortunately at present existed.Mr. Ellison
l139 rose to defend the alleged inconsistency in the speech of his hon. friend (Mr. Bennet) who opposed the addition to the expenditure of the Civil List, and yet thought that an addition ought to be made to the income of the Princess Regent. It appeared to him, that in this there was no inconsistency; because his honourable friend and himself had no doubt, that if the expenditure were properly looked into, such retrenchments might be made as would enable the Princess Regent to be put in a situation to maintain such a splendour, as was suitable to her high rank in this country. Surely in this there was no inconsistency; and it was a fearful thing, and a just cause of alarm to the country, that notwithstanding all the grants which they had so lately made to the Prince Regent, if that happy restoration took place, an event which, every person in the country most anxiously looked to, the right hon. gentleman would still come down to the House with fresh demands on the people. The right hon. gentleman had told the House, that neither as servant of the crown, nor as adviser of his Royal Highness, would he say any thing on this subject; but the time was when the right hon. gentleman had not only said much on the subject, but had taken such measures as would have enabled all his Majesty's subjects to understand it. It was well known, that a book had been prepared by the right hon. gentleman for publication; that out of some fund, whether public or private he could not tell, the expence of the printing of this book was defrayed; that measures were taken that not only the subjects of this kingdom, but all the continent of Europe, should be made acquainted with it, but that suddenly the book had been suppressed, and the outstanding copies bought up at an enormous price, proceeding from what quarter he knew not. It appeared to him, therefore, that as counsel for her royal highness the Princess Regent formerly, and as the present adviser of the Prince Regent, the right hon. gentleman was placed in a situation which above all others
l139Mr. Whitbread
l145 reprobated the doctrine thrown out by the right hon. gentleman, that he felt himself called upon to give no advice, but that if the House should shew any disposition to provide for her royal highness the Princess Regent, he should feel it his duty to make the communication to the Prince Regent. The House had now heard from a person who was so well qualified to judge, first as counsel employed by her royal highness the Princess of Wales, and then afterwards as the minister of the crown, that the conduct of her Royal Highness was perfectly blameless. It was certainly a very great satisfaction to hear, that no imputation could be cast on the Princess of Wales. This was peculiarly satisfactory, as the right hon. gentleman could not forget that her Royal Highness once stood in his estimation as a person who had been stigmatized for impropriety of conduct, and that he published a Book for the express purpose of establishing her innocence, by the removal of those accusations. The right hon. gentleman would do well not to forget, however, that her Royal Highness still remained un indicated. It appeared to him, that there was nothing improper in taking this subject into consideration at the present time, when every branch of the royal family, but the Princess Regent, was provided for. When the right hon. gentleman made a demand of an establishment for the unfortunate monarch, of so many lords of the bed chamber, and so
l145Mr. Whitbread
llll127lllll concurred with his hon. friend in the propriety of postponing the committee for at least a month, not because the deficiency of the consolidated fund was so large as to shake the security of the public creditor, but because the statements of gentlemen on both sides of the House, holding the very same papers in their hands, were so contradictory as to prove, that a similar investigation to that which had taken place under lords Grenville and Harrowby, should be instantly commenced. He for one had understood that the Princesses were to live with the Queen, and on this account it was, he conceived, that the addition of 10,000llll127lllllMr. Whitbread
 wished to know whether, before the nomination of colonel Taylor as private secretary to the King, any such place had existed? Under the infirmity of sight of his Majesty, no one could doubt of the necessity of such a confidential servant, but as little hesitation could be felt in conceding that no such officer would be required by the Regent. He was anxious likewise to learn (the place having been made a State Office by The Gazelle,) whether the nomination of col. M'Mahon was to be paid out of the same fund as that from which col. Taylor derived his salary?Mr. Whitbread
 said this was the first time, he believed, that the House had been called on to prescribe what Message ought to be communicated to them from the crown. He thought there was a delicacy with respect to the Prince Regent and the Princess of Wales, which the House ought not to lose sight of.Mr. Courtenay
llllll123lll objected to the Speakers leaving the chair. He did not wish that the discussion should take place now, but that it should be deferred to some future day. No difference of opinion could exist as to the necessity of a suitable provision being made for the Princesses. But his first general ground of objection to the proposition now made, an objection which he had staled on a former occasion, was, that the charge would fall upon the consolidated fund, to which the public creditor looked for his security, and which, in the last year, had fallen far short of its amount in the year preceding. It appeared flora the papers before the House, and now in his hand, that the revenue of the consolidated fund, up to the 5th of January last, had decreased in comparison of the year ending the 5th of January, 1811, to the amount of 3,500,000llllll123lllMr. Creevey
113lll did not rise to oppose it. On the contrary, he should be glad to see it on the table. He merely rose to correct a misrepresentation of the hon. generals, with respect to the actual situation of the people of the town of Liverpool, and to maintain that the statement which he had originally made of their distresses, was perfectly correct. He had slated, and he now repeated it, that in the course of one month only, the number of poor had increased from 8,000 to 15,000 persons. So far from his account being overstated, he was, from subsequent information, more convinced than ever of his own correctness and of the decay of trade in that town. It was most extraordinary to him how any gentleman could wish to deceive the House, when it was evident that, as he had before said, the ships were dismasted, riggers and carpenters out of employ, and the general appearance of the town such as to satisfy any person of the distresses under which the inhabitants laboured. The absence of the American trade, which constituted one of the chief props of the town, had occasioned this decay, which was felt in Chester and Manchester; also, in the falling off of the exports of salt and goods of various descriptions. To shew the vast decrease in the trade, he had a document from the customs which stated the exports for the last two years for that town. In the year preceding the last, the amount was 2,676,000113lllMr. Creevey
 denied, in explanation, that he had received his information from any discharged officer.Mr. Creevey
135 thought the proposed measure was due to the Princesses, from the situation in which they stood, and the distinguished and amiable characters they possessed. He certainly was of opinion, that if the enquiry into the civil list was gone into, the charge might be provided for without laying any additional burthen on the people, but in the mean time he could not suspend his vote. His right hon. friend who had just spoken, had asked upon what pretence the anticipation could be justified? he would answer, on the situation in which the Princesses stood, on the wish they must feel to be relieved from the daily observation of domestic calamity within the walls of the palace. The country was called upon, from a consideration of their age and situation, to make the grant. He had lived in the neighbourhood of the Princesses, had witnessed their charily, and heard of the good they did in the neighbourhood around them, and would consent most willingly to afford them the means of continuing
135Mr. Fremantle
 said, in reply to what; had fallen from a right hon. gentleman, that, as chairman of the committee on the; civil list expenditure, he should certainly; apply to the House for leave to examine persons as well as consider documents, if it should be found necessary for the elucidation of the subject referred to the examination of the committee.Mr. D. Giddy
 supported the Bill, on the principle that power and property ought never to be separated; and therefore, that all members of that House ought to be duly qualified by the possession of certain property. Nothing had tended more to injure that House in the public opinion, than that bankrupts and insolvent persons had been allowed to sit among them; and he was anxious to remove this stain from their character.Mr. Giddy
 observed, that the Qualification Act provided, that a member should have a certain qualification when he took his seat, but further it did not go. He could not give his consent to a Bill which appeared to him to trench upon one of the first rights of the subject, namely an eligibility to sit in that House.Mr. Lamb
ll133lll132 observed, that the present question included so much of a personal nature, that a member, standing forward on the occasion, was liable to be exposed to considerable obloquy, He had, in defiance of this risk, originally opposed the increased grant to the Princes, and now felt it to be his duty to follow the same course with respect to the Princesses. He could see no sort of occasion, at a period when the burthens of the people were so great, and the pressure of the time was so heavily felt by all—he could see no occasion for imposing this new load upon them; so far from it, in his opinion, it ought to be the last thing the House should
ll133lll132Mr. William Smith
 contended, that the legislature had wisely declared, that a member of the House of Commons should have a certain qualification, that he might be independent of any corrupt motives. A bankrupt necessarily declared himself not worth a shilling, and were that the sole ground of objection to a bankrupts retaining his seat in parliament, he should think it amply sufficient.Mr. W. Smith
146 rose to enter his protest against the doctrine laid down by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and
146Sir J. Newport
 then gave notice, that tomorrow he would move for any documents on which the right hon. gentleman had founded his assertion.Sir J. Newport
 added, that he had taken down the words employed by the right hon. gentleman at the time, and they were," that individuals educated at the college of Maynooth had made use of the facilities they there obtained to propagate by undue means the Catholic religion."Sir J. Newport
 enquired if the right hon. gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, would have any objection to produce the documents on which he founded his assertion, that persons educated at the college of Maynooth had employed undue means to make proselytes, particularly in the north of Ireland, to the Roman Catholic persuasion?Sir J. Newport
 was ordered to remain at the bar, and Mr. Hindson to be called; but on Mr. Wilson, a Member, rising to ask information from the Speaker, as to the proper course of proceeding, the witness was ordered to withdraw.Mr. Campbell
bona-fide said, if the witness had been bona-fideThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, the order of the House, which was in his possession, ought of itself to have protected him from an arrest.Mr. Lockhart
prima facie said it was a question of fact, and was of opinion that no prima facieThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 understood, that Mr. Dan had said "Don't mind the order of the House, but keep, your prisoner." He thought he could not say this in ignorance, and that consequently a farther enquiry was necessary. [The short-hand writer's notes of the evidence were here read.]Mr. Bastard
 agreed that this was a question of fact, but thought the attendance of Mr. Dan necessary, as he had doubted whether or not an order of the House could legally protect a person from an arrest. If he should appear to have doubted not the effect of an order of the House, but whether the order produced were genuine, or if he had doubted whether Mr. Campbell was the person entitled to its protection; he thought there would be but one opinion in the House, that he should be discharged. Since, however, Mr. Dan had been stated to have doubts on the subject, it was proper that be should be ordered to attend to state on what those doubts were founded.Mr. Ponsonby
162 thought it appeared that Mr. Dan, considering the circumstances altogether, wished to have the opinion of counsel, before he discharged the person: but if it was thought neces-
162The Solicitor-General
 said, the act was a manifest breach of privilege, and those who would state the case most favourably for Mr. Dan, must own that there was at least great doubt in his expressions. If the motion before the House was, that he should be taken into custody, what had been stated by the gentlemen opposite would have great weight, but they did not go the length of disproving the propriety of an order for his attendance.Mr. Wynn
l164163 rose and moved, That the three first of the Resolutions which, upon the 31st of May, 1810, were reported from the Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred, to consider further of the Report which, upon the 29th of June, 1808, was made from the Committee on Public Expenditure, and which Resolutions were, with an Amendment to the second and third, agreed to by the House, might be read; and the same were read as follow:l164163Mr. Bankes
166 said, he held in his hand a Petition on which he found it necessary to make a few observations, before he moved that it should be brought up. The House would recollect that previous to the expedition against Buenos Ayres sailing from the Cape of Good Hope, sir Home Popham, who had the command of the naval department, had by a mistake in his own judgment, illegally, as it had since been determined, hoisted a broad pendant and constituted himself a commodore. In consequence of this self-promotion, he had appointed the Petitioner, captain King, a most deserving and capable officer, who was then a lieutenant in the navy, captain of the Diadem, the commodore's shi and in this capacity of captain, and with all the great responsibility attached to the situation, the petitioner conducted safely the Diadem, and the fleet under her command, from the Cape to Buenos Ayres. When the expedition arrived there, the petitioner at the instance of the commander-in-chief, took the command of a body of marines, and acted on shore as a lieutenant colonel; in the execution of which service, as well as that of the captain of the Diadem, he received the thanks of his superior officers. He had since been fixed in his command as captain of the Diadem, and acknowledged at the Treasury as a lieutenant-colonel: but when the prize-money came to be distributed, the petitioner was named in the warrant only as lieutenant King, and only entitled to a share of prize-money as applicable to that rank in the navy. This was a very serious injury to captain King, in point of pecuniary interest but besides that, he felt it as a kind of slur on his character, which he was desirous of having removed. He had, therefore, requested the noble lord to present this Petition, which the noble lord had readily undertaken to do; but having stated this much, he found himself at a loss how to proceed for the best, and would be obliged to the Speaker for his advice. His first idea was to move for a committee to enquire into the circumstances of the case: but ort farther consideration, he thought that it would be better to move merely, that the Petition do lie on the table: and then, as the case was well known, and he believed, acknowledged by ministers to be a hard one, if they did not take it up in a certain time, he would make a motion on the subject. This seemed to be absolutely necessary, as captain King had been
166Lord Folkestone
 said, the Petition complained of the usual practice being departed from to his loss and detriment; but it was not altogether pecuniary compensation, but restoration of character, which was his object in bringing forward the Petition. If the usual practice had not been departed from, he could have proved his rank, but being named as a lieutenant he was precluded from doing so.Lord Folkestone
 wished to state, that this was not the language of the Petition, which did not pray for remuneration and other things, but merely his own comment on it. No doubt ultimately the effect might be so. Sir Home Popham had appointed the Petitioner a captain. This appointment was not legal on the part of sir Home; but was the Petitioner to dispute the order of his commanding officer to make him a captain? Was he to examine into sir Home Popham's right before taking the command? If he had objected to the appointment he would have been guilty of mutiny, and liable to be tried by a court martial. It was true, that if the petitioner had been named as captain of the Diadem, sir Home Popham could only have received prize money as a common sailor, but if any person was to sulfur, it was the person who committed the illegal act, and not the person who obeyed. He at the time had been more than six months promoted to the rank of captain. There were many instances of captains of the navy, though in no command on shore, still sharing in the distribution of prize-money.Lord Folkestone
 stated this to be a question of very considerable hardship, but the noble lord, he believed, would find it very difficult to put it in such a shape as to allow it to be successfully entertained by the House. He was not at present so well prepared as he could wish to be, not being aware of the subject coming that night before the House, respecting all the particulars of this case. He could say, however, that it was heard in the Exchequer for many days before the lords of the privy council, sitting there in their judicial capacity, who, after much deliberation, came to the ultimate determination, that captain King could not share as a captain. This, he could say was not done with any particular view of benefiting sir Home Popham. All the circumstances of the case had been attended to, and captain King's promotion taken into account. The whole of the prize was now distributed. He was willing to admit captain King's merits, and that his case was one of compassion. It had been stated by the noble lord, that the object of this Petition was not only to obtain money, but to remove a slur cast upon him. For his part he had never heard any thing of him but commendation.Mr. Rose
 stated, that the decision complained of was not one come to by his Majesty's ministers, but by the privy council.Mr. Rose
170169 apprehended, that the Petition was for money; and as a petition for money, it could not be received by the House without a previous recommendation on the part of his Majesty. The noble lord by whom it had been introduced, had rightly stated, that there was no actual demand for money in the prayer of the Petition, but at the same time he had properly admitted, that pecuniary remuneration was the ultimate aim, and necessary consequence of the Petition. Such, certainly, was the true construction to be put upon the Petition, and no one could possibly entertain a different opinion. Gentlemen on the other side were in error to contend, that there was no other mode of bringing the subject under the consideration of parliament. On a statement of the facts contained in the Petition, they might
170169The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was not prepared to say, whether the present came within the rule of the House; but he thought, generally, that it was a Petition directly asking for a grant of public money, and not one which might ultimately tend to that effect, that required the consent and recommendation of ministers. He conceived that the meaning of the rule was to make ministers responsible for what grants they recommended, and not to restrict the power of parliament. He should take the liberty, however, of suggesting to the noble lord, that if instead of pressing now to a division, when such doubts were entertained, he would withdraw the present motion, and move only for the Memorials of captain King to the Admiralty or Privy Council, he might perhaps, by such a motion, ultimately obtain his object.Mr. Ponsonby
 certainly considered that captain King had suffered great hardship but not injustice. He had not been deprived of any legal right, but he was disappointed in a hope which he might very rationally have entertained. As to strict justice, the doors of justice were open to him as well as to any other man, if he had any legal injury to complain of. He considered that this Petition was substantially, if not formally, an application for a grant of money, and that therefore, it could not be received without the recommendation of ministers.Mr. Yorke
 thought, that as captain King had done the duty of captain of the Diadem, and had been subjected to all the responsibility of that duty, he ought to have shared for the rank in which he served.Mr. Bastard
 in consequence of what had fallen in the course of the discussion, was ready to withdraw his motion, and put it in a shape less objectionable. He hoped, that if the House should coincide with his motion in another shape, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not withhold his consent to an application for a grant of money. He considered that if the Diadem had been lost, captain King would certainly have been tried for the loss; and as he had done the thing which was required of him, he ought to share in the gain.Lord Folkestone,
 requested the noble lord would not consider him as a party to any arrangement of that sort. He had argued before, and should still contend, that unless a very strong case were made out, the House would not feel disposed to take into its consideration matter of this nature.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 after a few words in explanation, withdrew his motion, and then moved, "That there be laid before this House, Copy of any Memorial or other Paper presented by captain King to his Majesty to the board of Admiralty or to the Privy Council, respecting the booty captured at Buenos Ayres, and also the report of the law officers of the crown, to whom it was referred to consider of such Memorial."Lord Folkestone,
173 said, that as to the subject of this new motion, he thought that the House would not interfere in such cases, except
173Mr. Yorke
176175174ll said, that he rose to move for a variety of papers relative to the prosecution and trial of captain Tomlinson, of the royal navy, and he hoped he had it in his power to disprove any imputations which had been cast on him. He begged to assure the House, that his sole motive in coming forward on this occasion was, to vindicate the character of a brave and gallant office, and to redress the injuries he had sustained, by the only mode which remained to remove the stigma which had been most unjustly affixed to him. The case of captain Tomlinson had bee" already in part before the House, on a recent debate, [see vol. 21, p. 960,] and it had been there stated, he thought rather incautiously, by the secretary of the Admiralty (Mr. Croker,) that captain Tomlinson had been acquitted in consequence of a flaw in the indictment. This he denied; for there was not a tittle of evidence on which he could be condemned, nor could it be shewn that he was guilty of the smallest neglect of duty. What was the nature of the accusation? That captain Tomlinson, commander of the Pelter gun-brig, had entered into a conspiracy to defraud government, by making extra charges for the repairs of the vessel which he commanded, and that those extra charges were to be made by a forgery of the blacksmith's account, which amounted to 29176175174llMr. Westerne
 condemned the opposition given by the honourable Secretary to the Admiralty to the motion of the hon. gentleman. That motion was for papers, not to criminate or exculpate, but merely to enquire into the conduct of government towards an officer who had been engaged in seventy-two battles.Lord Henniker
 defended the character of the Navy Board. He attempted to shew that they had been guilty of no neglect of duty in furnishing articles to captain Tomlinson; stated, that they did not know of the subject of the prosecution, till within three days of its being commenced; and contended, that in ordering the prosecution, they had been actuated by no vindictive spirit. He sat in company at the Navy Board with eleven as honourable men as any in this kingdom.Sir Thomas Thompson
 observed, that, as the supporters of the motion had entirely exculpated the Navy Board from all blame, they had taken the ground from under the hon. mover. He justified the Secretary of the Admiralty from the hard measure which had been dealt out to him, and thought it was impossible for him to have taken any other course than he had done to refute the imputations thrown out against the Board he was defending.Mr. Robinson
 hoped the House would not be misled by their feelings to enter upon a jurisdiction quite new to them. It was impossible for the House to take upon themselves the functions of a court.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought captain Tomlinson placed in a very unfortunate situation. His name had been introduced before into the discussions of that House, and the Secretary of the Admiralty, not an ordinary member, had misrepresented his case. The correction ought to have the same notoriety. Might not a naval court of enquiry be appointed on the recommendation of a Committee of that HouseMr. Abercromby
 observed, that if that which the last speaker had recommended were done, it still could not be brought before a court martial, as the circumstance happened 15 years ago, and therefore such a proceeding would be contrary to the articles of war.Mr. Yorke
 said, that as captain Tomlinson was aspersed by a charge of participating in the embezzlement of the public money, the House was called upon to go into an enquiry.Sir F. Burdett
 considered captain Tomlinson as having suffered a most extraordinary hardship, and parliament he thought would dishonour itself by not adopting investigation.Mr. Lyttleton
 shortly replied; after which the House divided.Mr. Westerne
 said, that on these grounds, the noble lord having shewn, that what he had said respecting remuneration was only his own comment, he now thought himself at liberty to put the question.The Speaker
 was extremely unwilling to start any objection to the Petition, but it was the duty of the House to beware how they established a precedent by receiving it. If he understood the noble lord, the petitioner craved remuneration, and other things. Now in all cases hereafter to be brought forward, of application for money, would not the petitioners pray for remuneration and other things?The Speaker
 observed, that it depended on how far this was an application for money, before the House could determine as to its being received.The Speaker
 wished to know, if the hon. gentleman would pursue this motion before the House decided on giving an order for the attendance of Hindson again tomorrow.The Speaker
l159 said, it was the established course of the House first to ascertain, by evidence, the nature of the facts, and then it was competent for any hon. gentleman to propose what course he thought fit to be adopted.l159The Speaker
 thought that the whole question in point of order was, whether this was a Petition for money or not; and it appeared to him it could have no other object but money, and that no other relief could have been contemplated by the Petitioner. He allowed with the noble lord that the emoluments of the service must be desirable to every one embarked in it, but still he would never allow that those emoluments were the only stimulus to exertion. Although there were fewer opportunities now than there formerly were of obtaining glory and profit in the naval service, still the sense of duty would always stimulate our officers to proper exertions. If captain King had been unsuccessful in meeting in this instance a serious disappointment to his natural expectations, he hoped some other opportunity might occur, in which his services would meet their proper reward.Admiral Harvey
171 was of opinion, that instead of sharing as a lieutenant, captain King ought to have shared for the rank in which he served. He thought that it was clearly within the power of the privy council to have ordered him such a share, and that if reward was the proper stimulus for exertion, the privy council had committed a gross error in not awarding him such a share. He believed that prize
171Lord Cochrane
 contended, that the proportion to the petty-officers had been decreased rather than increased, and defied the hon. gentleman to prove the contrary.Lord Cochrane
 wished an investigation not only for the sake of the individual member, but of the profession to which he belonged. He had heard him universally well spoken of, not only as a gallant officer, but as a moral and conscientious gentleman.Lord Cochrane
 without offering any observations, moved—" That Mr. Campbell be allowed the privileges of this House, and be discharged from his arrest."Mr. Eden,
 was of opinion that no censure was deserved by the unfortunate sheriff's officer, and he should therefore not propose to proceed with any severity against him; but he thought Mr. Dan, the attorney, ought to be ordered to attend to receive a reprimand for the language which he had held with respect to the order. He would therefore move that Mr. Dan he ordered to attend.Mr. Eden
 moved, that the order of the day, for taking into consideration the matter of the Complaint made to the House, that Mr. Campbell being summoned to attend the Committee appointed to enquire into the manner in which Sentences of Transportation have been executed, and into the effects which have been produced by that mode of punishment, had been arrested by a Sheriff's Officer yesterday, on his way to the House, be now read.Mr. Eden
 said, he had received a letter from Mr. Palmer, a witness attending a Committee of that House, complaining of having been arrested, (a laugh.) He did not know that the case was marked by circumstances so aggravating as those which characterized the former one; however he should move, that John Palmer and Alexander Grace, sheriff's officers, do attend the House to-morrow.—The motion was agreed to.Mr. Eden
160 felt that there could be no doubt on the question before the House. As Mr. Campbell had been ordered to at-
160Mr. Eden
161 thought Mr. Dan ought at
161Mr. Tierney
 thought if nothing farther were done, and it appeared on their Journals that no steps were taken in consequence of such a breach of privilege, attornies might hereafter refer to this case, and tell those offending in a similar manner, that it was of no consequence, and no notice would be taken of it by the House.Mr. Tierney
 then stated some objection that appeared to him? In reply to which.Mr. Wilson
 did not think him entitled to this, as the case did not come exactly within their privileges, which he was as anxious to preserve as any man. He then stated the facts as disclosed in the preceding evidence, and contended, that Mr. Campbell being at that hour returning to his own house, could not be said to be in progress to the Committee of the House of Commons.Mr. Wilson
 observed, he had been somewhere else all the morning previous to his passing the Horse-guards at twelve o'clock, on business not connected with the Committee.Mr. Wilson
 before Mr. Dan was ordered to attend, wished to observe that there had appeared no intention on his part to infringe the privileges of the House. He would put it to them, if when the amount of the debt was considered, it could be expected that any man would take upon himself the heavy responsibility of ordering a discharge of the arrest, unless he was; certain that the order would justify his doing so.Mr. Stephen,
 rose to correct an accidental mis-statement of his right hon. friend. Counsel had certainly not been heard in this case before the privy-council. He then entered into a legal disquisition to prove, that the case was not a law case, but that it came under the prize act, to be decided under the prerogative. The commodore had no power to appoint a captain, and captain King having been thus illegally appointed, did not come within the scope of the proclamation for the distribution of prize-money, under the assumed title to which he had no right. There was no apprehension, that this principle of exclusion would extend to any other officers, as it was grounded merely on the illegality of captain King's appointment.Mr. Stephen
 again explained. He had not argued the case to prove captain Tomlinson's guilt, but to shew that the Navy Board had grounds for what they did.Mr. Croker
 in explanation said, he had merely stated the facts on which the Navy Board had acted, without arguing from these facts.Mr. Croker
172 thought it necessary to state to the House what the recent alteration of the regulation respecting prize-money
172Mr. Croker
177 denied that there was any delay or neglect in the Navy Board, in not having furnished the stores required, consequently that they could not be accused of malice in the prosecution. There had been some years back a sort of mercantile and ship-building connection between Tomlinson and Tanner, subsequent to which Tanner became a bankrupt. The assignees made a demand of a debt due from the captain to the latter, which demand he resisted, stating that he had no transaction with Tanner so far back as 1795. The assignees brought their action, and it was necessary to prove the signature of the captain to a document: a blacksmith from Dartmouth was put in the witnesses box, and was shewn a paper from the Navy Board, as of work done by him, and he was asked was that his signature to the Bill? To which he replied "No." The counsel expressed his astonishment, and said, "it must be, for it was a voucher from the Navy Board." The blacksmith replied, "Though it is a voucher from the Navy Board, nevertheless, it is not my writing. It is a forgery." Upon this evidence the prosecution was grounded. So much for the malice. When Tanner was taken up for his share in the transaction, there were found in his desk certain remarkable papers, as of bills for work done by order of captain Tomlinson; on one side of the papers was the real number of days charged, and on the other fictitious ones, in order to defraud government, so that instead of five or six days per man, there were charged 14 days. When the false gains were summed up, there appeared a remainder of a bill in favour of Nicholas Tomlinson for 20 guineas; finding these fraudulent papers, was it malice in the Navy Board to institute enquiry? He proceeded to state
177Mr. Croker
 said, that every body had been heard except the Petitioner. He wished that the Petition itself might be read, in order to learn whether it was really an application for a grant of public money, or whether it was not such a Petition as might be entertained without the consent of his Majesty's ministers.Mr. Peter Moore
 then suggested the adjournment of the debate upon this motion, until after the holidays; he should say till the 8th of April.Mr. Whitbread
181 observed, that the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty had brought forward much new matter without the smallest evidence. But taking all that had been alledged, what was there in it? Because captain Tomlinson was in partnership, and because Tanner had committed forgery, were they entitled to proceed against captain Tomlinson without any evidence Should that justify a prosecution against a captain of the British navy? After they had failed in the warrant, upon the very same evidence they went before a grand jury. This shewed a singular zeal in prosecution. With all deference to the gentlemen who presided at the Navy Board, he could not but think that as a board they had been negligent of their duty.—The hon. gentleman then went into several particulars of the case of captain Tomlin son, and argued that there was not the smallest ground to doubt, from any thing that had yet been said or produced, the statement of captain Tomlinson. Was it not necessary, therefore, that the matter should be enquired into? He thought there was something like a persecuting spirit displayed in this business, if not by the Navy Board, at least by those whom they employed. The business was first brought before Mr. Nares, then before Mr. Graham, than whom no man stood higher in the estimation of the public, as an upright and intelligent magistrate, and both Mr. Nares and Mr. Graham thought there were not even grounds for holding captain Tomlinson to bail. Here it was taken on the same evidence to a grand jury; and the Attorney General said, that he ought to be hanged, because he happened to be connected with a fraudulent partner. This was a curious conclusion to jump at. He wondered bow so great a
181Mr. Whitbread
 stated, that the speech of the hon. Secretary had exactly the effect as if he had argued against captain Tomlinson.Mr. Whitbread
168 was glad that the statement of the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, had put down the authority of the right hon. gentleman. Indeed it must appear to any person impossible that till captain King saw the warrant he could argue against it. If there was to be a sufferer in this case, there was no question but it ought to be the man who had misconducted himself. Captain King had been placed in a situation by sir Home popham, where he had deserved the
168Mr. Whitbread
l178 from the high character which he had heard of the gentleman who was the subject of the motion, and the observations which had fallen from the Secretary of the Admiralty, wished to make a few observations. The speech of the honourable Secretary was certainly calculated to make an impression on the House, which made it so much the more necessary to accede to the motion. He would not allude to what had been said about malice; but that there was an unfavourable impression on the mind of the Secretary of the Admiralty, against capt. Tomlinson, was very evident. If he himself were to speak on such a subject, where a captain of the British navy had been acquitted by the sentence of a judge, when not a tittle of evidence had been produced, he certainly would, at least, have observed a more decorous mode of speaking of the gallant officer. He would not, with the levity used by the hon. Secretary, have so coupled the names of Tomlinson and Tanner, and Tanner and Tomlinson. He was acquitted, not because the indictment against him was ill laid, nor because Tanner could not be prosecuted, but because there was not the smallest evidence against him; and he must say, that when an honourable captain of the British navy was acquitted, and when, through the medium of an hon. friend of his, called for the production of documents to justify his character, the House was bound to give him such an op-
l178Mr. Brand,
180179 said, it appeared to him that the manner in which the Navy Board had been defended by the hon. Secretary and the hon. baronet, were as opposite as light and darkness, In defending the Navy Board from malice, the honourable Secretary certainly left an impression on his mind not very favourable, and opposite, perhaps, to what, he intended: but what had been said by the hon. baronet, a member of the Navy Board, had been said in a way that certainly did him great credit. He stated matters in a clear way, without colouring, and he thought he had
180179Mr. W. Smith
 thought that there was a peculiar hardship in this case. If captain King had been appointed through an error of the commander, still he had done the duty, and he thought he ought to share for the rank in which he acted. If he had been a simple passenger, and appointed to command the marines on shore, he thought that he must have shared.Sir C. Pole
 when the responsibility of the man who discharged an arrest was considered, thought a fair excuse appeared for Mr. Dan. It seemed there was no christian name mentioned in the order, and therefore it might well be suspected that it was intended for another Mr. Campbell, and that the person arrested attempted improperly to take advantage of it. He thought enough had been done to assert the privileges of the House, and hoped they would give the parties concerned no farther trouble.Mr. Owen,
 said, that this was a novel case; but the inclination of his mind was, that Mr. Palmer ought to be protected. He had been ordered by the Committee to do a particular act before his return home, and was therefore not released from his attendance at the time of his arrest.Mr. Wynn
 doubted, in the first place, the power of a Committee to appoint a messenger. If, however, they had that power, his protection ought to describe him as a messenger, not as a witness. Otherwise a sheriff's officer might be involved in endless perplexities. For suppose a sheriff's officer met a man against whom he had a writ, going to Hampstead, and that man were to tell him, that he was sent on a message by a committee of the House of Commons, although the letter, which he might shew as his protection, was merely a summons as a witness before that committee, it would be hard to impose on the sheriff's officer the necessity of believing such a statement. It might perhaps be expedient to postpone the further consideration of this case, in order to afford time for deliberation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, on this statement, was inclined to think that Mr. Palmer, when arrested, could not be considered as a witness, but as a messenger, and doubted whether under those circumstances he was entitled to protection.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, if such were the wish of the House, expressed his entire acquiescence in it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l188 rose for the purpose of proposing the annual vote for the fulfilment of the treaty of his Majesty with the King of the Two Sicilies. He did not feel that it would be necessary for him to go at present into any details upon a subject, the line of conduct upon which seemsed so clear; but if any hon. member should require further information, he should be happy to afford it. It was now four years since this grant had first been proposed and adopted, and at this period, it would be quite superfluous for him to detain the House by a justification of the policy on which the treaty was founded. He flattered himself that those individuals who on former occasions had opposed the vote, would now concede their objections, for he had the satisfaction to state, that his Sicilian Majesty had effected an important change in his government and councils, equally favourable to his own and to the interests of Great Britain. The whole military establishment of the kingdom had been placed under the controul of lord William Bentinck, who would be enabled from the confidence that was reposed in him, and from the power with which he was invested, not only to apply the various means he possessed to the protection of the island, but even to aggression upon the common enemy. It would be almost condescending too far to attempt by any detail, to refute the foul calumny originated in France, that Great Britain had imitated the conduct of the ruler of that country in their treatment of the government of Sicily; that she had assumed all the authority of an independent state, for the purpose of appropriating to herself the resources and produce of the island of Sicily. The only design the British ministry had in view was, to discharge with strict fidelity the duties of an ally, whose anxiety was to stop the progress of an overwhelming tyranny, which would sweep away in its progress every vestige of liberty. With this design they fell themselves called upon, from circumstances of urgent necessity, for the protection not only of the independence of Sicily, but for
l188Lord Castlereagh
189 replied, that if parliamentary enquiry were requisite, the right hon. baronet was too well acquainted with the forms of the House to need information? how complaints were to be brought for-ward. If such a step should be taken, his lordship was prepared to meet the most minute investigation. He was happy to assure the Committee that there was not the slightest ground for stating, that it was even at the suggestion, much less upon the demand of the British minister, that the King of Sicily was induced to abdicate his throne in favour of his son: how it could be called an abdication he was at a loss to imagine, since it was merely
189Lord Castlereagh
 re-asserted, that necessity alone had induced the British minister, not, as was supposed, to overthrow the system, but merely to make a representation to the king of Sicily against the existing form of government. The whole change that succeeded was voluntary, nor were the British authorities concerned in or responsible for it. During these transactions the conduct of lord William Bentinck had been not less remarkable for mildness and forbearance, than for a rigid execution of his instructions.Lord Castlereagh
 remarked upon the triumphant tone in which the right hon. baronet had reminded the House, that his recommendation at a former period had at length been attended to by the alteration which had been produced in Sicily. If however the British government had not waited until the pre-sent time before it interfered, the object would have been defeated, inasmuch as matters were not until now ripe for the change accomplished, nor would it even at this time have been proper to have proceeded to the extent advised by the right hon. baronet in his former speeches. If it were questionable at this lime whether interference were right, surely at any former period (before the danger which lately threatened the British army was apparent) it would have been most unjustifiable. He admitted the fitness of removing from the British character the greatest of all stigmas cast upon us by our enemies, namely, that we were actuated by the same principles that governed them, if that might be called government which acknowledged no law. He was surprised, however, to find, that the right hon. baronet was the instrument by which these unfounded calumnies were circulated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 answered, that the objection just made, that we ought to have treated with our ally while he was free, could not apply, inasmuch as, at the formation of the treaty, to fulfil which this grant was proposed, there was a British army in Sicily.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 gave his vote for the grant, upon the explanation of the noble lord, considering that we were justified in interfering with the government of Sicily, in conformity with the provisions of the treaty, and that if necessity urged, we should take possession of that country by force of arms.Mr. Bastard
 stated some circumstances respecting the application of the grants of former years, from local knowledge, and justified the propriety in government abstaining from interference before.Mr. Hume
 adverted to the deficit in the account of public officer in the Treasury, and recommended the adoption of some means of preventing in future the accumulation of frauds on the public.Mr. Bankes
193 stated the accounts of Mr. Chinnery to have been of such a nature, that by balancing the surplus of some years, against the deficiencies of others, the appearance of the whole was so fair, that it was a matter of little surprise that the auditors had been deceived. The inaccuracies in them could only be detected by looking to the accounts for a considerable time back. These back accounts had been neglected; but latterly, an effort had been made to get them into a more regular and proper train. As there were a great many of these accounts to look to, it was a considerable time before the accounts of Mr. Chinnery were hunted, as it were, into such a corner, that it was hardly possible for the defaulter to escape. He did not deny that some blame attached itself to
193The Chancellor of the Exchequer
194lll said, he had introduced Mr. Chinnery in 1783, who had been private secretary to the then lord chancellor, lord Thurlow. Mr. Chinnery was strongly recommended by the lord chancellor, and in consequence he (Mr. Rose) took an opportunity of naming him to a situation. He understood, about nine months after he had done so, that Mr. Chinnery ac-quitted himself in a very satisfactory man-ner, and that he was very ingenious, and at the same time attentive to his duty. For four or five years Mr. Chinnery appeared to go on very well, but after that time he got into an extravagant way of living, which he (Mr. Rose) thought ill became his situation. He remonstrated with him on the subject. Mr. Chinnery, from the two agencies with which he was entrusted, and the accounts of the Treasury, which he had to manage, was in the habit of receiving not less than 4,000194lllMr. Rose
 said, that a change which had been made in that department would be a security against the recurrence of such an accident. He meant, that the clerks should be audited every quarter.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
195 had no doubt but government was at present perfectly awake to the disease, he might say, consumption,
195Mr. Bankes
186bona fide observed, that if the case were to stand over, it must be on the principle alone. No new circumstances could appear. In old times, even before the Revolution, it had always been held to be the undoubted right of the House of Commons to protect from arrest, witnesses summoned either to the House, or to a committee, in coming, staying, and returning. In his view of the present question, the character of Mr. Palmer as a messenger, seemed to be a secondary consideration. The House must first dispose of his quality as a witness; that he had been in attendance as a witness before the Committee, was clear: that he was not to re-turn to the Committee in the capacity of a witness was also clear. The question for the House to consider was, whether Mr. Palmer was 186bona fideThe Speaker
185 argued by analogy, from the practice of courts of law, that Mr. Palmer was entitled to protection, and stated two cases in support of his argument. The one was of a person whose cause was put off early in the morning, but who, not returning home until evening, was on his return arrested; the other was of a woman, whose cause was decided on a Friday, but who, waiting until Saturday for a stage in
185Mr. Eden
 also trusted, that the House would consider the deviation of Mr. Palmer from the straight line of his return sufficiently accounted for, and that they would give him the benefit of protection,Mr. Eden
187 moved, that the privileges of the House be granted to Mr. Palmer, and
187Mr. Eden
 said, that Mr. Dan's statement had been so satisfactory, that he was sure the House would agree to his motion for discharging that gentleman from any further attendance.Mr. Eden
 observed, that before he moved to call in Grace, he would state to the House, the object of the Committee, in sending Mr. Palmer to Mr. Campbell. During the examination of Mr. Palmer be-fore the Committee, that gentleman received information, that his brother-in-law,. Mr. Campbell, had been arrested on his way to attend the Committee as a witness. They conceiving it to be their duty, in maintenance of the privileges of parliament, to bring the fact before the House, requested Mr. Palmer to go to Mr. Campbell, and to prevent him from endeavouring to procure his discharge by bail.Mr. Eden
 thought the mode of issuing money was highly improper. If the right hon. gentleman opposite would not suggest a plan, he would, on a future day, make a motion to that effect.Mr. H. Martin
 conceived, that the right hon. baronet had forgot the nature of former discussions on the subject. The objections then urged to the grant were, that it was impolitic to grant money while the peasants of Sicily were so oppressed by the noblesse, and that this country ought to insist upon a civil reformation in that kingdom, by the restitution of what was generally termed the rights of man. These objections had been most ably and eloquently answered by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning), then Secretary of State, who had said—"He trusted the House would not desire that 10,000 men, with bayonets on their shoulders, should set about reformation; that he did not think they were the most proper philosophers to revolutionize a country, and teach the people the value of liberty." The hon. and learned gentleman deprecated the practice of adopting gross and ridiculous calumnies set on foot by the enemy, as being unworthy of consideration in that House. For the moment the House began to reason upon them, those calumnies were delivered from the ridicule which otherwise would attach to them. Was it not ridiculous to assimilate the conduct of Great Britain in respect to Sicily with that of Buonaparté towards Spain? The right hon. baronet wished for further information, but was it really necessary to satisfy Europe, that in rendering assistance to Sicily, the object of Great Britain was to annex the kingdom to the dominions of her ally? The change which had taken place was desirable, for it had averted the danger.Mr. Stephen
 was of opinion, that had the suspension of Mr. Palmer's return home been his own choice, he would not have been entitled to the privilege of protection; but it was evidently the act of the Committee.Mr. Stephen
 bore testimony to the character of Mr. Campbell. He understood that Mr. Campbell was a man of great worth, and considerable property. He had been a settler in New South Wales, but had been compelled, about eight years ago, to come over to this country to give evidence on a trial, and had since been involved in difficulties by the conduct of his agent. He repeated that he had un-doubted authority for stating, that Mr. Campbell was a man of most unblemished character.Mr. Wilberforce
 pointed out the distinction between the conduct of Buonaparté with regard to Spain, and of England with regard to Sicily. The pretended abdication of the throne of Spain procured by the former, was a mere hypocritical veil, under which he concealed his base and treacherous designs.Mr. Wilberforce
 thinking it desirable, that Grace, the sheriff's officer, should be called in,Sir A. Piggott
 again adverted to the resistance given by ministers to his suggestion on a former occasion, that Sicily should be governed by British authorities. Immediately afterwards, however, the British government was detected intermeddling with the organization and proceedings of the Spanish Cortes, and was now the declared promoter of a revolution in Sicily. It was perfectly obvious, without any assertion from the noble lord, that ministers were anxious to shun enquiry, for if enquiry were courted, when could a time be found more fit than the present for such a purpose? A full and complete exposition of their motives and conduct was due to the country, the purity of whose national character was sullied by an imputation of the blackest kind, which it was the duty of the government immediately to remove.Sir J. Newport
 thought that a much more satisfactory explanation was due from the noble lord, on a matter of so much magnitude. He could scarcely believe that ministers, who on former occasions had thrust themselves forward as the friends and supporters of existing establishments, should now attempt to justify the subversion of that of Sicily. Did the noble lord mean to assert, that it was not true, that by means of the British authorities the king had been induced to abdicate his throne in favour of his son? Uninformed as he was upon the subject, judging only from appearances, he confessed that this proceeding did appear to him very similar to the conduct of Buonaparté, who forced the king of Spain to abdicate his throne in favour of his son Ferdinand, and then took advantage of it to claim Spain as his own property. To whom was this money now proposed to be voted, paid? and to what was it applied? These were enquiries, in the present condition of our finances, of much importance; but above all, the British government should take care to make it evident to all the world, that its conduct was not similar to that of our perfidious enemy, which had justly met with the re-probation of all who dared to be impartial.Sir John Newport
 thought it enigmatical that two brothers, summoned to attend the same committee, should be arrested on the same day, and on writs issued by two different attornies.Sir J. Newport
191 answered, that it was of the utmost importance not only that our national honour should be perfectly pure, but that it should be unsuspected even by our enemies. It was not fit that Great Britain should justify her injustice by asserting that the actions of France were of a blacker dye. The noble lord had maintained, that paramount necessity dictated our proceedings in Sicily: necessity was the tyrant's plea, and how many countries had Buonaparté taken possession of and overrun, on the ground that the
191Sir J. Newport
192 maintained, that it was a totally different thing to make terms with our ally when he was independent, and when he had an army of 15,000 British soldiers in his territory. Perhaps upon enquiry, he should agree that it was important that the revolution should be accomplished; but he required, and the country required, that it should be made evident to all the world that such conduct
192Sir J. Newport
202douceurdouceur201 did not think it necessary to enter at large, for the present, on the merits of the Bill. He admired the ingenuity of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, but his arguments did not carry conviction, because he always fell short of the object in view; he pointed out evils, which he magnified, but never suggested a remedy. The noble lord did not see that the extension of the measure to Ireland was attended with such insuperable difficulties, as to deter parliament from completing a system deemed necessary for the prosperity of the empire. He should deceive the House, were he to deny that difficulties existed; but they were not of the nature represented. He must, for instance, contradict the idea which seemed to have been entertained, that a double price for goods, the one in gold coin and the other in paper, existed all over Ireland. It was said, indeed, that the traffic in guineas was pretty general throughout that country, as it was in England. This could not be denied. But there were not generally two prices stipulated in a contract; the practice, on the contrary, was, in that respect, the same as in this country. The question, therefore, as to payments in gold stipulated by contract in Ireland, was reduced to three or four counties, which stood as an anomaly, and in which the practice of stipulating for payments in gold had long subsisted. But, even in that case, the
202douceurdouceur201Lord Castlereagh
198197bureaux de verification, entertaining the same objections he had always professed to the measure in contemplation, which objections were still strengthened by the new clauses added to the Bill, could not forbear enforcing them again, even in that early stage of the measure. The Bill, as it stood, went to give to the paper of a company, the same currency as to the coin of the realm, and to make those notes a legal tender in every instance, without providing any additional security against forgery, or against any excessive issue which might, and would still further depress them. The system of paper circulation was not new, it had been at some period or other attempted by most nations in Europe, and its invariable consequence had been to entail bankruptcy on government, and ruin and misery on thousands of innocent individuals. The same effects might be expected, or at least apprehended, in this country, from the Bill then before the House; and it was the bounden duty of the representatives of the people to pause and consider, whether or not the present paper currency meant to be established was so far different from all others, as to avert the apprehension of those evils which experience had taught us to expect. He was not, however, so sanguine as to hope, that the provisions of the present Bill could answer that purpose. He saw no additional security against forgery, and while he was willing to do ample justice to the ingenuity of the means by which the Bank had contrived to protect themselves, he must observe, at the same time, that as those means were secret, that very secresy, far from affording any additional security to the individual, only increased his perplexity. He could speak from personal observation as to the effects of forgery on a paper circulation; he had seen in France in the time of assignats, 198197bureaux de verificationMr. Morris
208l207206 maintained that the measure was calculated for the protection of the liberty of the subject, who, but for this Bill, was in his person liable to the payment of a debt in gold, which, so long as the Bank restrictions continued, it was not in his power to obtain.
208l207206The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l211lsds210209 said, he had no intention of going at large into the question now, but as he had been absent during the discussions it underwent last session, and had no opportunity of delivering his sentiments at that period, he was anxious in a few words to express his firm conviction, that so far from this measure being calculated to promote the permanent interests of the country, it was calculated to bring the country to ruin. The right hon. gentleman opposite, had said that the predictions made on former occasions, when this sys tern began," and at various points of its course, of the progress to rain in which it would involve the country, had never been fulfilled. At the time when the Bank restrictions commenced in 1797, many persons had indeed spoken in very strong terms, as men were apt to do, of the utter ruin attendant on such a course. For his part he had never used this strong language—but there were many intermediate stages between the injury and titter ruin of a country. In his opinion, all the predictions since 1797, in opposition to that of the right hon. gentleman, had been substantially fulfilled. The supporters of the measure bad declared their belief, that the Bank would soon open again, and resume its payments in specie. This had been denied, and the contrary affirmed, viz. That the Bank would never pay in gold so long as this law lasted. Which of these predictions had been verified? Some years ago, when the price of gold rose so high, and the course of exchange became so unfavourable, owing to the excessive issue of paper, it was said, on, the one hand, that this mischief would be still worse; which, on the other hand, was denied. Whose prediction, in this case, he would again ask the right hon. gentleman, had been proved right? Their difficulties had increased. They were in a worse condition last year than ever they had been before. How, then, were their predictions falsified? The right hon. gentleman had told them, that no issues in other countries had ever resembled those of this. He agreed with
l211lsds210209Mr. Ponsonby
ds212 thought that the measure would be a great oppression to the landlords of Ireland.—He had heard from hon.
ds212Mr. Marryatt
 read the third and fourth Resolutions of the Bullion Committee. By the third the Committee had declared, "that bank notes were to be considered as promissory notes for payment in gold." The fourth assumed, that, "in consequence they were held in estimation equal to the current coin of the realm." The noble lord argued that it was the height of inconsistency to proceed with the present Bill, with those Resolutions (diametrically opposite to its principles) standing on the Journals of the House, especially as it was intended to extend the Bill to Ireland.Lord A. Hamilton
 shortly opposed the second reading of the Bill, on the ground of its making bank notes circuitously a legal tender. Mr. Burke had said that these notes were of value on the Royal Exchange, because they were of no value in Westminster-hall; but this measure went to reverse the case, and make them of more value in Westminster-hall than any where else. He conceived it would be much better to make them a legal tender at once between man and man, than through the intervention of courts of law and attornies.Mr. Giles
200ll hoped that, before the Bill should pass, the gentlemen from Ireland, then absent, would come fully prepared to discuss its merit as affecting their country, in the way alluded to by the right hon. baronet. The nature of the Bill itself had been greatly changed by its extension to the sister-country. He was one of those who thought last session that the Bill would be incomplete if it did not extend to Ireland; but at the same time he had expressed a positive wish for full information, before that step should be taken. It had appeared since, that a practice existed in Ireland of receiving gold in payment of contracts, at a difference in price from the paper circulating medium. The difference was stated by some at 22 or 25 percent, against paper. It followed of course, that the landlords and other holders of such contracts, would be injured by the Bill in that very proportion. This was a step perfectly novel in legislature; and should the Bill pass, it would turn out that a man, a tenant for instance, now bound to pay 122200llMr. H. Thornton
 allowed the full weight of the principles laid down by his hon. friend (Mr. Morris); he saw that the measure proposed was attended with great difficulties; he might say, that it was dangerous, and wished that another had been proposed in its stead; yet, in the present circumstances, knowing it was desired by the public, he would not oppose it.Mr. D. Giddy
204203 was against the Bill, even in this stage, as he did not think it capable of amendment in a Committee. It was another step in that system which, if they argued from analogy to all the other nations in which history informed them similar courses had been pursued, they must be convinced could only terminate in the utter ruin of the country. It was said that the measure was popular; but he denied the capability of the persons out of doors to form a proper judgment on a subject, which was not fairly presented to their understandings. And it was for the wisdom of that House to correct the errors into which those who did not look so deeply into the matter might and must fall. Not as would seem to be the opinion of his hon. friend (Mr. D. Giddy) who would agree to a measure which he was convinced was not right, because the people liked it; as if, 'Sipopulus vult decipi, decipiatur.' He was astonished that his hon. friend could lend himself to so ruinous a deception. There were one or two objections to the present Bill, which struck him as so weighty, that he was surprised it could have been at all entertained by the House or the country. It went, to all intents and purposes, to make bank notes a legal tender; for the only difference was, if a man could afford to wait 'ad Græcas Calendas,' that was, till the Bank returned, to payments in specie, which the present measure would lead to the protraction of for ever. His sincere and perfect belief was, that it would end in national bankruptcy. For all history shewed them that such had been the tendency of similar practices in other nations, and did not afford them one solitary instance to the contrary. To add to this moral certainty of the result, our national debt had increased, and was increasing, and with that increase the advance of the price of all commodities. They were told, if this step was insufficient, they must take another; and what must that step be?—to make bank notes at once a legal tender. And should this also fail in effect, what remained to be done? They must compel all persons
204203Mr. W. Smith
205 would not go into the general question, but confine himself to that part of it which regarded Ireland. He collected from all sides, that it was not disputed that the measure of last session met with general approbation, and was looked at by the country with a very favourable eye. If this were true, and it was a measure resorted to for the protection of the subject, was it not natural to desire it to be extended to Ireland? The only reason why it had not been extended to that country last session, had been justly stated by his noble friend (lord Castlereagh). It arose from the anomaly existing in that country, which rendered it necessary to allow time for investigation, and for learning the actual state of the case. This anomaly, in having two prices, one for gold and the other for paper, did not, however, extend so far as was supposed. It was confined, as the noble lord had stated, to part of one province out of the four into which Ireland was divided. His noble friend had also fairly explained the nature of the difference arising out of the two per cent. formerly paid for the purchase of guineas by the tenant; but the original cause might not, perhaps, be so generally known. If arose from the weavers having, for some reason or other, refused, soon after the establishment of the bank of Ireland, to take their notes in payment for webs. This rendered it necessary for landlords to guard themselves by the adoption of the practice in question, and the traffic in guineas had gone on till the price of gold became so much higher, in comparison with paper, that the evil remedied itself, and the practice was altogether abolished, except what remained between landlords and tenants. The exaction of gold for rent had, of late, become so crying an evil, that if it had not been for the measure of last session, and the prospect held out that it would soon be extended to Ireland, they would have heard such a cry from the North, to protect the tenant against the landlord, that no government could resist it. In what condition, he asked, would they be, if they (the Irish tenantry) were exposed to the
205Mr. Wellesley Pole
199 deprecated the idea of extending the Bill to Ireland, and conceived that the House was travelling the high road to ruin, which had been invariably the case with all countries in which a paper currency had been forced on the people. He begged the House to consider, besides, the grounds on which the measure was to be extended to Ireland. It was simply on a petition presented by a noble lord, without his having condescended to inform the House whether the petition was signed by landlords or by tenants—that was, whether it was signed by men who were willing to abandon some of the advantages they actually had by contract; or by men willing at any rate to acquit themselves of their debts at a cheaper rate. The Bill passed last session went far enough to alarm all men interested in the welfare of the country, but the present went far beyond it. It went, as it respected Ireland, to break a solemn covenant between landlord and tenant, by which the former was to be paid in gold, no matter at what price it was to be procured. He thought that this was a step too bold to be taken at once; and before the imperial parliament could think, under such circumstances, of extending the Bill to Ireland, they should have petitions from every part of that country, and know especially if landlords agreed to it. In another instance, Ireland, should the Bill extend to that country, was treated with evident neglect. He believed that the bank of Ireland was as solvent as any bank—as much so as the bank of England itself, and he could say no more in its favour. Yet, when it was intended to restrict the bank of England from paying in specie, it was thought necessary first to institute an inquiry
199Sir John Newport
 thought that nothing that bad passed at the East India House, or between himself and the directors, could at all letter the proceedings of parliament. He had thought it his duty, before he brought a subject of such importance before that House, to form his own opinion on it, and preparatory to submitting a measure to parliament, some correspondence with the directors of the East India Company had to him appeared necessary. Before a Bill was brought in on the subject, he had thought it proper to communicate to them what was the bearing of his mind on certain propositions involved in the question. That he had done so he thought was no mark of disrepect to the House, and no breach of his public duty. With respect to any particular opinion that he might have ex-pressed, if it should appear that he had taken an erroneous view of the subject, the sanction of the House could be withheld, and the propositions he might submit to them, it would be for them to reject; but at present he did not conceive he had a right to be called upon by the noble lord, or by the House, to state what those opinions were, or at all to discuss the subject, when they could not go on with the discussion, so as to make it lead to any practical result. He hoped the House would not call for his opinion on this subject, and that the noble lord would think it no disrespect to him that at present he declined to reply to the question he had put. He would now only state that he had taken a most erroneous view of the subject, if it was a breach of duty on his part to communicate with the directors of the East India Company, or if it was disrespectful to parliament to endeavour to form an opinion himself on the merits of the question, before he brought it under their consideration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
223222 presented a Petition from the Freeholders of the county of Mayo, praying the extension of a constitutional privilege to their Roman Catholic fellow subjects.
223222Colonel Dillon
 said, that the Petition would be referred to a Committee of the whole House, and that certain Resolutions would be proposed to the Committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 complained of the delay which had taken place in the negotiations between the Board of Controul and the Directors. From the 13th of February, 1809, for two years and ten months, it appeared that no communication had been had between them.Mr. Howarth
 was of opinion, that it would be expedient to take into consideration the policy of putting a temporary stop to the distilleries.Mr. Latouche
 of Dublin said, that the alarming price of provisions in Dublin had excited a strong sensation, so much so, as to induce the magistrates to make representations on the subject to the lord lieutenant, with a view to the adoption of some measure of relief. He agreed that the stopping of the distilleries now would be unjust, but thought they might be prevented from commencing again, as usual, in September, and that they ought to be obliged to suspend their work until the January following. Such a measure would, in his opinion, be sufficient to relieve the apprehension of scarcity.Mr. Shaw
234 said, the subject was of the highest importance, and if there was really a prospect of scarcity in Ireland, it deserved their immediate consideration. He hoped the House would keep in mind, that the information they were possessed of was at present very defective. It appeared that in many parts there was great abundance, and the mischief chiefly arose from the difficulty of transporting provisions from one part to another. The House would therefore be cautious how they stopt the exportation of provisions from Ireland to England. As to the stoppage of the distilleries in
234The Chancellor of the Exchequer
230 rose, not to oppose the motion, but to ask a few questions of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to transactions of public notoriety, which had taken place since the House last met. At a meeting of the proprietors of East India stock, it was asserted, that the right hon. gentleman had been understood to have pledged himself to four points—first, an exclusive trade to China: secondly, the supply of whatever monies might be wanted for the service of the company, for two years; thirdly, the confining all Asiatic importations to the port of London; and lastly, the giving up to the Company the controul of the army in India. If
230Lord A. Hamilton
231 complained of having been misrepresented by the right hon. gentleman. He did not say that he was wrong in forming any opinion he pleased, or communicating with the East India Company on the extension of their charter; he merely wanted to know, whether he,
231Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that he should suffer no opportunity to pass without pressing upon the House the injustice of the regulations said to be connected with the renewal of the charter. Those regulations were injurious to the out-ports, and directly contrary to the articles of the Union with Ireland. He never could conceive that it could enter into the contemplation of government to make all ships coming from Asia discharge their return cargoes in the port of London. To-morrow he should make a motion, founded on the papers made public in another quarter. He should, however, previously move, that those papers be laid before the House.General Gascoyne
 moved for Copies of all Correspondence which had taken place between the Board of Controul and the Directors of the East India Company, respecting their present charter.General Gascoyne
 begged to ask, what course it was intended to follow on this occasion.Mr. Creevey
232 could not give an official answer to the question of the last speaker. He, however, proceeded to explain that which had been noticed, and was understood to say, that though he did not know that any official correspondence had taken place within the period alluded to, yet there had been communications and discussions on the subject. Some delay had occurred in consequence of its being thought desirable to wait for the Report of the Committee on the Finances of the East India Company. With respect to what had been said by the noble lord of the concessions which had been made by his right hon. friend, he thought they Were answered by those very proceedings on the report on which he had founded his statement, as it had there been stated, that all was conceded on the part of the company, while nothing was secured in return. The papers for which the hon. general intended to move, were papers to the production of which he did not know that any objection would be made, but he thought the motion at present might be premature.232Mr. Wallace
 had no objection to the production of the papers.Mr. Wallace
233 did not rise to oppose the motion, but to state that he had not altered the opinion be had already expressed on this subject. He was convinced that there was no real scarcity of provisions throughout Ireland. The apparent deficiency was merely local, and arose from exports; but, at the same time, he allowed that it was the duty of government to allay the fears, however unfounded, which the people of Ireland entertained. With this view he intended to move, tomorrow, for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the exportation abroad of Irish made spirits; and be also intended to move in the Committee of Ways and Means, for an additional duty on those spirits imported to any part of the empire.
233Mr. Wellesley Pole
, in answer to the observations of Mr. Shaw, stated, that the Irish government had received no information which could lead them to think there was a general scarcity. On the contrary, his opinion was, that there was plenty of grain, and that the increase of price and consequent alarm was owing to certain outrages and speculations which had taken place. If there was any apprehension of a general scarcity, he could assure the hon. gentleman that government would take any step which might be necessary, even were it the total stoppage of the distilleries; but as that was not the case, he thought they should not proceed to do what must injure the revenue, and the agriculture of the country.Mr. Pole
d, from all the information which he had been able to procure, was not of opinion that any sound apprehension could be entertained of a scarcity. It had been stated to him, that in many parts potatoes were still sold at 4dMr. Parnell
 said he had been informed, that the distillers had sent to Mr. Pole exaggerated accounts of their stocks of grain, and in confirmation of which he read part of a letter.Sir J. Newport
, after adverting to the scarcity of grain and other provisions which existed in many districts of Ireland, and to the necessity of preventing the distillation from grain in that country, moved for a general return of all the grain, malt, meal, and flour exported from Ireland, from the beginning of the present year to the latest period at which the same could be made out.Sir John Newport
 said, that since the Vote of Thanks had been passed in that House to the officers and men who assisted at the capture of Ciudad Rodrigo, he had learned that the names of major-general Henry Frederick Campbell, major-general the hon. Charles William Stewart, major-general Baron Low, major-general James Kemmis, major-general William Borthwick, and colonel William Maundy Harvey, brigadier-general in the Portuguese service, were omitted in the said motion; he therefore moved the like thanks to them; which was agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the object in view would, in his opinion, be better promoted, by the stoppage of distillation from grain altogether, and it would, besides, mark the attention of the Irish government to the wants of the people.Mr. Stewart
 of Dublin said, that it was impossible for him to allow this measure to go forward, without entering his protest against what was likely to prove so injurious to the whole body of the distillers of Ireland. It would; in the first place, throw a great superabundance of spirits into the country; and in the next place, he thought they should be very cautious how they interrupted a trade which was likely to be so beneficial. Another measure offered itself, which, he thought, would have a better effect; namely, the stopping of distillation after a certain time. It was to be considered too, that large contracts had been entered into, and this measure would throw a damp on all enterprise or speculation, for which reasons he felt it his duty to dissent from the Resolution.Mr. Shaw
 said, that when the question was, whether distillation or exportation should be prohibited, he thought the milder method should be first tried. It was bad policy to make the agricultural system depend on caprice or change of circumstances, unless there was a pressing necessity for it. He agreed, that in the present case, something mutt be done, and he therefore gave his assent to the milder measure as an experiment.Mr. Grattan
 said, that he perfectly concurred in the present measure, which went to prevent the sacrifice of the health and morals of human creatures to the benefit of the revenue. He hoped this measure would increase the consumption of malt liquor, which was so much more wholesome. He considered the low price of spirits in Ireland, the cause of their excessive use, rather than any disposition in the people to intemperance. This duty would go to correct that evil, and he had not any doubt that it would be followed up.Mr. Grattan
241 thought it surprising that government did not go into a general consideration of the resources of the country with respect to its supplies of corn, after the quantity that was annually imported, He thought that a rise on the price of grain would insure a constant supply, and two bushels more on the acre through the country would give an abundance. Ministers should have a more accurate view of the whole agriculture of the country, and would by that means have it in their power to adopt some general measure instead of those temporary expedients now resorted to. He wished to God, for the
241Mr. Curwen
ds244dsdsds said, that the first Resolution he should have to propose to the Committee, was for laying an additional duty of 2ds244dsdsdsMr. Wellesley Pole
240 said, that he rose for the purpose of moving a Resolution to prevent the exportation of spirits made from grain in Ireland, for a time to be limited. The object of the Resolution was to prevent the exportation of Irish made spirits to foreign markets, in consequence of the high price of provisions in Ireland at the present period. In considering the situation of that country, there were but four measures which suggested themselves for adoption. The first was, to prevent the intercourse between this country and Ireland; the second, to stop the distillation from grain in Ireland; the third, to stop the export of grain from Ireland for the supply of our armies; and the fourth was that, which he felt it his duty to recommend to the committee, as there were many objections to each of the others, which he was persuaded, many gentlemen would concur in thinking sufficient to prevent their being resorted to. The measure now submitted to the committee was unquestionably a smaller evil than any other, and was nothing more than stopping the exuberant grain of the country from being converted into spirits, in order to be sent abroad—he was aware, at the same time, that it would create a considerable disappointment to many meritorious persons in Ireland—he meant those distillers, who by their exertions, had established a beneficial trade to Portugal
240Mr. Wellesley Pole
243 replied to the different objections urged against the proposed measure, many of which he was quite surprised to hear. It was said that no relief would follow, as the quantity exported was not so great as to cause any difference in the price of corn; but be could state, that the quantity exported had been from 1–4th to 1–5th of the whole quantity of spirits distilled in Ireland; and it had been increasing during the last six months. He was not so sanguine as to expect all the relief he wished from this measure; but it was a little unfair to say that it was absurd on the face of it—One hon. gentleman had spoken of it as unjust to the
243Mr. W. Pole
 shortly replied, and stated the average quantity of spirits exported from Ireland was between one fourth and fifth of the whole.Mr. W. Pole
245 said he concurred in the general principle on which this duty was proposed; but he was apprehensive, that illicit distillation was not yet sufficiently put down to warrant so large an addition. He had had the means of ascertaining, beyond all doubt, that the illicit trade was still going on without interruption over immense districts of that country; and that
245Mr. Parnell
242 said, he concurred in opinion with the hon. member for Dublin, that this measure would not diminish the consumption of grain in the distilleries, but alone injure the distiller. The right hon. gentleman had wholly omitted, in his opening statement, to shew in what manner it would realize the declared object of it. For his part, it seemed to be quite plain, that the distilleries being compelled
242Mr. Parnell
 was extremely happy to see the present motion brought forward, and thought there was no sacrifice which ought not to be made to the great object of preventing the excessive use of spirits among the lower orders in Ireland. He hoped a full and fair trial would be given to the augmented duty.Sir John Newport
 said, that no man could more heartily concur in any measure, which appeared likely to obviate the difficulties or distresses of the people than himself, but he could not help considering the present as inefficacious. Some documents should be before the House to enable them to form a correct judgment, and to make it manifest that there was no danger from illicit distillation. The right hon. mover had last night stated from the commissariat returns, the prices infinitely lower than the market prices in the adjoining district, which was certainly no great proof of their accuracy. He was far from wishing to oppose the present measure, except on the ground that it led the House to suppose that they had applied a remedy, where, in truth, they had not. If the prohibition of distillation from corn took place, there would be no suffering, because the distillation in a great measure took place from raw com, which could be brought to market, and was still applicable to other purposes.Sir John Newport
 supported the Bill, as tending to the comfort of the metropolis, and stated, that in the committee, the prepared would be prepared to prove that 7–8ths of the county of Essex had given their consent.Mr. Hume
 supported the motion.Lord Henniker
 said, this was the most extraordinary motion he had ever known to be attempted to be brought before the House. No ground had been laid before them, no character had been given to the resolutions either of praise or blame; and as so much of the time of the House had been already taken up to no purpose, he felt it his duty to move the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped the right hon. baronet had never found any disposition not to accommodate, and he was quite sure that if the right hon. baronet had any proposition to make at any time to the committee, he, for his part, would be most desirous to meet his wishes. He was satisfied that a sufficient number of members were present if any business was before them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he understood the question to be, whether there were not some vessels in the river, having licences to France, with rice on board? He was not aware whether there were or were not any vessels in that situation. There, no doubt had been licences granted to export articles not prohibited, and as the law stood there being nothing to prohibit the exportation of rice, that article of course would be comprehended under the general licence. There had recently, he believed, been a communication made on the subject of the scarcity of this article, in consequence of which, in all licences since granted, the word "Rice" had been excluded. How far it would have been proper, as rice was not a prohibited article, to prevent the exportation of any cargo already shipped under a licence previously granted, he thought was a matter of serious consideration. It seemed to him to be extremely doubtful how far, in these circumstances, a merchant ought to be deprived of the best market he could get; and it even seemed to be of serious consideration, whether the knowledge of such a regulation might not prevent the importation of the article, particularly from America.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had not forgotten who or what he was, but had thrown out what he had said only as reasons against interfering with licences already granted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped he should have received a more pointed answer, whether licences were, in the present circumstances of the country, granted for the exportation of so necessary an article.Mr. Lyttleton
 said he had already stated, that many licences had been granted generally, which comprehended rice, as not being a prohibited article. Since communications on the subject had been made to the Board of Trade, the article of rice had been uniformly excepted; but if the hon. gentleman meant to contend, that where the licences had been granted generally, and cargoes of rice had been shipped, the exportation ought still to be stopped, he had not the smallest doubt that the hon. gentleman would require an act of parliament for that purpose.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l observed, that undoubtedly one object of the act of last session was to increase the salary of Mr. Dundas, who then discharged the arduous duties of the President of the Board alluded to. He admitted that it had been strenuously resisted by the hon. gentleman, but his objections had been overruled by the better judgment of the House. Lord Melville, however, upon his nomination to the situation he now held, had resigned the office previously occupied by his late father, of privy seal of Scotland, with the salary annexed to it. If the hon. gentleman expected that sinecure offices were to be held without the receipt of any salary, it was a new principle not yet recognized by parliament. Individuals who under the last administration held situations to which no public duty was attached, did not think it necessary to set an example which was now considered so laudable. It would not now be denied that the earl of Buckinghamshire was entitled to an adequate reward for the execution of public duties of great importance, but, filling this new office under the East India Company, he had thought it right to resign the annuity of 1,500lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it extremely probable that the grant depended upon the contingency of the renewal of the charier. He could not see why the previous employment of his lordship should render him unfit, under the present circumstances, to fill the office of President of the Board of Controul. Certain it was that there was no legal incompetency, and no other objection could be assigned.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed it, principally on the ground that some of the landed properties in Essex, either were against it, or at least remained neuter. He therefore moved, that instead of" Now," the Bill be read the second time this day six months.Admiral Harvey
252 conceived, that as the pub-
252Mr. Curwen
 presented three several Petitions in favour of a Bill before the House, for the erection of Sea Water Baths in the vicinity of the metropolis. The first Petition was from the members of the royal college of physicians, setting forth the great utility of these Baths, as necessary to the comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the metropolis, as being highly beneficial to the health of the inhabitants in the cure of cutaneous and eruptive disorders.—The next Petition was from the inhabitants of the city and liberties of Westminster, to the same effect, and the third Petition was from the inhabitants of the city of London, staling similar benefits as likely to arise, if the House would permit the Bill to pass into a law.—The Petitions were laid on the table.Mr. Peter Moore
 then moved the second reading of the above Bill.Mr. P. Moore
 observed, that as the two hon. members had objected to the progress of the Bill in perfect good humour, and not having stated one real solid objection to the Bill passing into a law, and after the royal college of physicians and the cities of London and Westminster had come forward in favour of it, he thought the House would allow it to go into a committee. With respect to the Bill itself, of 209 persons slated to be interested in opposing its progress, 104 had given their assent, 86 were neuter, because as their names were not in the papers, they were not consulted, and only 19 dissented. So that, in a line of 40 miles, which the works necessary for completing the undertaking would occupy, there were 7–8ths of the parties interested in favour of it.Mr. Moore
 thought the first question was, what would be the best mode of applying the rice now in this country, whether to keep it to ourselves, or to export it for the use of our enemies? As to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman in regard to America, he confessed he was surprised that the right hon. gentleman should have made any reference to that country, when he considered in what istuation he himself stood—who he was—and what had been his conduct in regard to America. He really thought, in the situation in which the right hon. gentleman stood, he needed not have applied any of his general principles to America.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that though the Vice-President of the Board of Trade was not present, still he thought, when the appearance of scarcity was so alarming as it was at this moment, that it would be becoming in the right hon. gentleman to give some answer to the question which had been put to him by his hon. friend; or, if he was not prepared to do so now, that the matter should stand over till to-morrow, and that, in the mean time, the sailing of any vessels in such circumstances should be suspended.Mr. Whitbread
, leaving the earl of Buckingamshire out of the question, thought that he might assume, from the known motives that influenced men in general, that any other person but the noble earl might be induced more strenuously to support a cause in the success of which he was so largely interested. He was not surprized that the right hon. gentleman had fixed upon an interested individual, considering the great difficulty he had found in discovering persons who would consent to serve under him.Mr. Whitbread
261 wished to put a question of some importance to the right hon. the
261Mr. Whitbread
lll260llllllll rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for copies of the Patents, under which lord Melville, and the earl of Buckinghamshire, were appointed to the office of President of the Board of Controul. He observed, that in 1784, when the Board of Controul was nominated, none of the members belonging to which were to receive salary, but the President had been allowed 2,000lll260llllllllMr. Creevey
 not seeing the Vice-President of the Board of Trade in his place, begged to ask of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he was correct in certain information he had received, that there were at this moment ships in the river, having cargoes of rice on board, with licences to proceed with the same to ports in France.Mr. Lyttelton
 expressed his concern at the wish of the right hon. baronet, whose services on the committee were so highly valuable, and whose absence from it would be so severely felt. He assured him that as far as his business would permit, he would give his attendance to the committee, and endeavour to meet his wishes.Mr. W. Pole
 assured the right hon. baronet, that he was fully sensible of the serious responsibility which attached to him in the discharge of his official duties. To be reminded of this, he need only look at the public prints in Ireland, in which, while on the one hand the distresses of the people of Ireland were exaggerated in the most unjustifiable manner, a kind of proclamation was issued on the other for visiting all those distresses on his head. Still, however, he was firmly determined not to come forward and propose to parliament what he could not but consider a most calamitous measure, namely, the total stoppage of the distillation from grain, until he should be in possession of documents of so cogent a nature as to shew the indispensable necessity of such a proceeding. Whenever that might be the case, he trusted that he should not be found disposed to shrink from his duty. He admitted that every post did bring additional information on this subject of an unpleasant nature, and that the post of this day had conveyed to him the unwelcome intelligence, that corn in Ireland was still higher even than he anticipated it would be; but he repeated, that government kept a watchful eye on what was passing in that country, and that they might perhaps soon feel it to be their duty to propose further measures to counteract the evil.Mr. V. Pole
257 said, the fact was, that there
257Mr. Pole
255254 said, he certainly should not take up the time of the House by following the right hon. baronet through the details into which he had though proper to enter, particularly as the right hon. baronet had admitted that, since the month of April last, all the steps which had been taken in this business had met with his approbation. With respect to the delay which took place last session, it arose from the unfortunate illness of the right hon. baronet himself, and not because the pa-
255254Mr. W. Pole
 condemned generally the policy on which the financial concerns of Ireland were conducted.Mr. Parnell
 said, that while the right hon. gentleman admitted the fact of non-attendance, he seemed to consider it no evil. It was extraordinary that he should appear to suppose that the committee were to meet or not as he pleased to direct.Sir J. Newport
 disclaimed all intention of throwing any censure on the right hon. gentleman. His information had been derived, not from the Irish newspapers, but from respectable individuals, some of whom were known to the right hon. gentleman, and who entertained for him a high regard.Sir John Newport
, in pursuance of the notice be had given, rose, to move for the addition of six members to the committee for examining into the state of the revenue and expenditure in Ireland. Among the names he should propose, were those of Mr. Shaw, of Dublin, Mr. Johnstone, and lord Archibald Hamilton. On the name of the first of those gentlemen being pot from the chair,Sir John Newport
 insisted that a character had been given to the resolutions. One of them particularly complained, that the regulation of the duties on excise and customs bad been assumed and acted on by the executive power, without any application to the board of treasury, to which department they belonged. That when be shewed this to the late Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer he was absolutely amazed at the transaction, and could scarcely bring himself to credit it: but the fact was, that of which another of the resolutions complained, namely, that the right hon. Secretary had a preponderating influence in Ireland,—that he was the sole organ of government, and no other person had any will under it. The right hon. gentleman himself had frequently proclaimed it to the House, and it was now folly evinced. He was therefore surprised the right hon. gentleman should have slept in with the previous question.Sir J. Newport
256 intreated government not to protract any measures which they might have in view for the relief of the people of Ireland in the present scarcity of grain. Every day's post brought additional proofs of the existence and the pressure of that scarcity, and he hoped the
256Sir J. Newport
, though he should not press a division, yet he protested against the opposition made to his motion. The committee had been appointed last session, at the recommendation of the throne, and nothing had yet been done of any consequence; it was a delusion upon the country, and he therefore hoped, as the right hon. gentleman was about to propose lord Castlereagh's name to be added to the committee, that he would substitute it in the place of his, as he could not remain a member where he could be of no service.Sir J. Newport
277276I have not the slightest difficulty in admitting that the hon. gentleman did, as he has said, acquaint me with the apprehensions he entertained, that the harvest of last year would not be so productive as some persons imagined, and that he did besides pledge himself to support with his interest any measure government might be disposed to suggest, in consequence of the information he so conveyed to me. But I cannot help thinking, whatever may be the scantiness of the harvest of last year, that there is no reason to fear any thing like a famine in the country, and it appears to me neither to be well founded nor to be consistent with the candour I should have expected from the hon. gentleman, that he should accuse as he has done, the government, of supineness with regard to the agricultural interests of the country, with which he is so largely connected. Does he recollect the measure which was, during the last session, introduced by me into parliament regarding the distilleries, and which, by the influence of the hon. gentleman and his friends, was rejected? The object of that Bill was to allow the distiller, when grain should rise to a certain price, to employ sugar in the production of spirits.—Was this an instance of that supineness of which to-day we are told, or rather was it not an instance of a great anxiety on the part of government to guard against circumstances like those now brought under the notice of the House?—With what wisdom that measure was thrown out; on what solid reasons, it is not for me now to speak, because parliament sanctioned the opposition given to it by its vote; and yet in the very same year, and after this successful resistance of the measure I proposed to remedy the evil, the hon. gentleman gave me to understand that he apprehended a scarcity.—Although I was disposed to give every degree of credit to the information then afforded to me (particularly receiving it from a
277276The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 replied, that in future they should be so exempt, and that whoever had paid property tax in the Irish Militia should have it refunded.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 denied his having made any such statement.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 assured the right hon. baronet, that as far as his recollection served him, what was said, when the Bill was before the House, was, that the officers generally should be exempt from the assessed taxes. When the right hon. baronet said, that he understood it in another way, certainly the right hon. baronet must think so; but he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was persuaded that it had been just as he now stated it. When the Bill was pending, he looked upon the Irish officers in the light of persons compelled to be resident here, and therefore liable to pay taxes only accordingly. Arrangements were, however, now made completely calculated to remove every ground of complaint on the part of the officers.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that the exemption applied to the property of the officers, and not to their pay. In consequence, however, of representations made, it had been determined by government to concede the point.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 terminated the conversation by stating, that the delay had originated in a question whether the exemption could be made under the old act, or whether a new bill would be required. It had now been determined, that by the construction of the former statute no new enactment was necessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
288pari passu denied that the present measure rested merely on the petition which he had had the honour to present; but it appeared to him, that the hon. baronet had been extremely parsimonious in his arguments, and had laid no grounds whatever before the House for delaying the measure. He was glad to hear that the hon. baronet had himself no doubt of the solvency of the bank of Ireland; and as Irish bank restriction had hitherto been enacted 288pari passuLord Castlereagh
290289 thought that his right hon. friend (sir J. Newport) did not merit the taunt of the noble lord, of not having used arguments applicable to the question, the fact being that his right hon. friend had spoken directly to the question, which was, whether a delay should be granted to enquire into the case of Ireland? while the noble lord had spoken to any thing else, and to the general principle of the Bill. The real question before the House was, whether they were justified in extending this measure to Ireland? The noble lord said that gold had risen in price, and that it was not paper that was depreciated; but if this was the case, it seemed to him most extraordinary, that notwithstanding the increase of gold in the European world within these late years, it should, in proportion to its greater abundance, become dearer, which was exactly the reverse of the case with regard to
290289Mr. Ponsonby
, in explanation, said he had never called the law of last session a benefit to England, and therefore could not be represented as wishing to withhold that benefit from Ireland. He had never represented all the tenants in Ireland for three lives as rich, but only that some of those for 99 years, and for ever, had greater interests in their lands than the landlords. The right hon. gentleman might expect, by this measure, to acquire popularity—Mr. Ponsonby
 was glad that the chair considered him not out of order, though had he been so, and interrupted as being so by the hon. gentleman, he would not have been interrupted by one who had been very remarkable for his own punctilious adherence to order.Mr. Ponsonby
 supported the Bill.Mr. Herbert
lll294llll293 admitted that there were parts of Ireland to which the Bill would not readily apply, but it applied to much the greater part of that country; and it would be most unjust to permit the Irish landlord to drag his tenant to prison for non-payment in coin, while the landlord enjoyed no such power in this part of the empire. He allowed there was some difference in the state of the countries, but as at least four-fifths of Ire-
lll294llll293The Chancellor of the Exchequer
295 said, he differed entirely from all the opinions of the hon. gentle-man (Mr. Johnstone). He had never known or heard of any bank that deserved to be compared to the bank of England, or whose credit had ever risen to any thing like an equality with the credit of the latter. He had heard much of depreciation arising from excess, but he confessed he saw no evidence of such excess. Gold indeed had risen in price as wheat had lately, from scarcity, and scarcity alone. The real wealth of a country, however did not consist in any amount of the precious metals, but in the amount of its effective labour, and if the export trade could but be re-opened, all our difficulties would disappear. The hon. gentleman had said, that the country bankers ought to be compelled to pay the twelve millions of small notes which they had issued, in cash; but it was rather hard to talk of forcing the country bankers to perform impossibilities. They bad hitherto acted from a desire to accommodate, in the full confidence of the solvency and wealth of the Bank, and had first limited their issues far below the real amount of gold in their possession. He could not but be struck with the doleful tone in which the hon. member concluded. He had himself no such despondency, and considered the cases referred to as altogether inapplicable
295Mr. Thompson
 spoke against the measure, as belonging to a line of policy calculated to throw the country into a state of instability.Mr. D. Magens
 acknowledged that the principles of political economy were strongly against the Bill, while it was supported by reasons of immediate expediency. Where there was only a choice of difficulties, he would submit to that which appeared the more tolerable, and in that view should support the Bill going into a committee.Mr. Bankes
 said, the right hon. gentleman professed to speak merely in explanation, and he though he had as yet done so.The Speaker
 observed, that there being no question before the House, he doubted much the propriety of continuing the conversation.The Speaker
 was in favour of the adjournment, and thought the gentlemen opposite had, in their arguments to-night, admitted what they had formerly denied—that paper was depreciated. In the same breath however that they argued that the Irish tenant, if this Bill did not pass, would be obliged to buy guineas at 26 shillings a piece to pay his rent, they contended that paper and gold were equivalent. He was asked if he would not give the same benefit to Ireland as to this country? But might not the same measure to persons in diametrically opposite conditions, be of a very different character; and was it not even confessed, that the effect of this Bill would be different on the northern part and in the other parts of Ireland. He objected to the measure altogether, as connected with a fallacious line of policy.Lord A. Hamilton
285284283 observed, that the matter under discussion was no longer susceptible of that variation of opinion by which its examination was distinguished last year. The question, whether depreciation did or did not exist, was now at rest: time, which solved every thing, had solved that; and no one would now deny that it did exist. The fact had been with much candour admitted by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and if it needed proof he would ask whether, of any commodities, more might not be purchased for one hundred guineas than for one hundred and five pounds. The silver tokens too, which the Bank had issued, were another proof. These tokens professed to be worth three shillings each, while in fact they contained no more silver than what was contained in half a crown: The same quantity of silver that used to be put out for fifty shillings was now put out for three pounds; and that he thought a sufficient proof of depreciation. Perhaps it would be said, that the half crown, worn and defaced as it was, did not contain more silver in proportion, than what was contained in a Bank three shilling token. This he would admit; but then it should be remembered that 24 of those half crowns were exchangeable for 60 shillings in gold. Looking at these circumstances, therefore, no one could deny the fact of depreciation, and that fact being granted, what did the Bill then before the House propose to do? that which Adam Smith, Hume, and lord Liverpool had stigmatized as an act of fraud, when done by any government whatever; namely, to
285284283Mr. George Johnstone
279 quoted the words em-
279Sir H. Montgomery
s278 said, he should give notice of a motion to the House on the subject. He did not mean to charge the right hon. gentleman with supineness on the present occasion particularly, but the importation of last year ought to have shewn the necessity of an enquiry into the best means of obviating it in future. He had no doubt, but that the present scarcity of
s278Mr. Curwen
 again rising,Mr. Curwen
275274Seeing the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, I feel myself reluctantly called upon to intreat his attention to the present high price of grain. I say reluctantly, because I am fully aware, that extreme caution should be used in mentioning any thing that may be likely to create alarm on so serious a subject as a scarcity of provisions. But, impressed as I am with its importance, I could not excuse my self if I were not now to bring it under the notice of the House. The right hon. gentleman will do me the justice to bear testimony that the views I have taken, are not the creation of a moment, since at the conclusion of the last year, in the end of October or beginning of November, I stated to him my firm conviction (the result of a circuit I had just made through the country) that the crop would be deficient, and that early measures ought to be taken to guard against the inconveniencies which I foresaw must ensue. These sentiments I conveyed to the right hon. gentleman at a time when the competition between sugar and grain in the distilleries was in contemplation. I now, therefore, again beg leave to state the confirmation of my fears, and to tell him that there has been a most alarming advance in the price of grain in various parts of the country; and this very day's post has conveyed to me intelligence, that in a place particularly connected with my interests, and inhabited by my constituents, serious disturbances have broken out, in which some lives have been lost, and more are endangered. I trust, that in staling what I new feel it my duty to mention, it will not be said that I am exclaiming, that there is not sufficient grain in the country to avert the calamity of a famine, if it be properly managed, but if the same supineness still exists, which I have previously complained of, with regard to the main basis of national prosperity, I mean the agricultural interests of the country, the most melancholy consequences are to be apprehended. I should have thought that the proof, that in the last year there were
275274Mr. Curwen.
292lld.s291 expressed himself happy to have heard the right hon. baronet (sir J. Newport), and the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Ponsonby) deliver their opinions on this subject, as it would thence be seen how they valued the interests of the tenantry of Ireland. Under the pretence of delay, for the sake of enquiry into the solvency of the Bank, which they all declared to be solvent, the whole of their arguments went to shew that the measure was not necessary to, and ought not to be extended to Ireland. They contended that the tenant in that country should be left without the guard against the demands of the landlord, which the legislature had thought necessary in England, and that it was the landlord who wanted protection.—But it was a gross fallacy to put upon the House that because no other petitions had come before them, the people of Ireland were not desirous of the extension of this measure. The greatest alarm had prevailed among the monied men and tenantry last session, when it was known that the Bill was not to be extended to Ireland, and application had been made to government on the subject. He firmly believed of the present Bill, that the greatest ferment and dissatisfaction would be
292lld.s291Mr. Wellesley Pole
 acknowledged that it had been charged up to the present time; but an order had been sent to the Commissioners, in future not to deduct the properly tax from the pay of the Irish militia officers.Mr. W Pole
282281280ll said, that he rose for the purpose of moving, as an amendment, that the further proceedings in this Bill should be postponed to this day fortnight, for the purpose of appointing a select committee to enquire into the state of the currency in Ireland, as the Bill related so much to that country, that every information should be obtained upon its probable effect upon the interests of the different classes there. He would endeavour, with the permission of the House, to put them in possession of the situation in which the paper currency of Ireland was placed. In the year 1804, a Committee had been appointed to enquire into the state of the bank paper here and in Ireland, and it appeared from their report, that the value of the paper issued by the bank of Ireland, in 1797, that the issues had not exceeded 6 or 700,000282281280llMr. Parnell
 thought if it did not extend to Ireland that it would tend to the oppression of that country; on which account he would give his full support to the measure.Mr. James Stewart
287l286l would not follow the wide range of argument adopted by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, but would adopt the same line as his hon. friend (Mr. Parnell,) and consider the subject of the present Bill solely as it affected Ireland. Like him, he would ask the House to give some time for enquiry, in order to ascertain how far it might be advisable to extend the measure to Ireland. At present, the only ground which the House had to proceed upon, was a single petition, presented by a noble lord, from a corner of Ireland, and signed by fourscore individuals whose secret motives the House had no means of ascertaining. He had no doubt of the respectability of many of the petitioners, some of whom were known to him; but still the House did not know whether they were landlords or tenants, or whether or not they were mostly attached to the mercantile interest, and paid much more than they received in rents. On such light and uncertain grounds, he thought that the House could not possibly consent to a measure, which would be as revolutionary in Ireland, in respect to property, as any ever devised in France by Robespierre. In support of that assertion, he quoted a case alluded to by an hon. friend of his, in which the measure in contemplation would, on a small estate of 1,600287l286lSir J. Newport
 rejoined, that so strictly had the deduction been attended to, that it had been made from the very moment some of the officers embarked for England, from Ireland.Sir J. Newport
 added, that the tax was deducted out of the pay of the last quarter.Sir J. Newport
 begged to ask a right hon. gentleman opposite, if the Irish Militia officers had been yet exempted from the payment of the property tax.Sir J. Newport
 persevered in his declaration; and added, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had concurred in the statement.Sir J. Newport
 said, that when the Bill for the interchange of the militia was before the House, the right hon. gentleman positively stated that they should be exempted-Sir J. Newport
 said, it was true that many new barracks had been proposed to be built in 1811; but as it was not now intended to build them, the estimated ex-pence of course was not stated in the present accounts. The estimates were only of those buildings now in progress, and which were intended to be completed. The expence of buildings was in one schedule, and that of repairs and alterations would be found in another. The regiment of Life Guards had hitherto kept their horses in rented barracks in King-street, but the term was expired, and if they were to be kept in barracks at all, it was necessary that they should be built. At Brighton the stables formerly used by the troops were in a most dilapidated state, and it was necessary, if troops were to be kept there at all, that new stables should be built. The necessity of building the barracks in the neighbourhood of Bristol arose from the circumstance of there being a considerable depot of French prisoners in the neighbourhood, amounting to eight or ten thousand men. If the necessity for the buildings was admitted, he would say that greater economy or more diligent superintendence could not be used with respect to the expence. Those who were accustomed to barrack estimates for many years, would perceive that the present was not higher than was usual, and, in point of fact, the contract was generally much within the original estimate.Mr. Wharton
l observed, that barracks for the Life Guards must be erected somewhere, if they were to be in barracks at all, for they could not remain where they now were. The estimates, he admitted, were large; but he apprehended they would not be thought disproportionate to the intended purposes (which were obviously very comprehensive) if they were compared with those of any preceding year in the same department. He repeated, however, that he had every reason to believe that the prices contracted for would fall considerably within the estimates. There was great inconvenience attached to the present system of the bar-racks in King-street, which contained accommodation for the horses only, while the men were scattered over the whole of this vast metropolis. With regard to the 25,000lMr. Wharton
305l said, that there was a real necessity for erecting new barracks for the Life Guards. Government had been actually ejected from the possession of the present ones, and was obliged to make a new agreement with the lessor, paying an annual addition of 950305lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the hon. gentleman must be positive indeed upon the subject, and confirmed in the opinion he had formed, when he thought it right not only to censure the conduct of his Majesty's government, but to vote against the Resolutions before the Committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
309308 proceeded to observe, that to refuse it without knowing whether the soldiers could be otherwise accommodated, might be productive of much inconvenience. He supposed, however, that by the debating strain which the hon. gentleman had thought proper to adopt, and the topics to which he had resorted, he expected to do much towards tranquillizing the country. When he brought forward his arguments attributing the starvation he described to the conduct of government, did he really think there was any thing in their manner of conducting the war against France, which operated to produce the scarcity at Liverpool? Did he think there was any thing in it to call down the vengeance of Providence on our heads, and provoke him to deny the harvest to our hopes? If not, how could the hon. gentleman shut his eyes to what every man could see but himself, and resort to those imputations, which no man who was acquainted with the subject, could hesitate to reject? He would own that in some inflammatory publications he had met with some topics to which the hon. gentleman had alluded; but he did not expect that any member could be found who would come down to that House for the purpose of making such statements. The hon. gentleman had spoken of golden opportunities for making peace, which ministers had neglected: but he did not say, he could not say whether one of those opportunities presented itself now; and if no such opportunity existed, where was the policy in asserting, that there was no salvation for the country but in peace? It would be impossible for him to say so much against the peace he recommended, as by saying that we were unable to go on with the war. The hon. gentleman had always said that he would not accept of peace but upon honourable terms. If, then, peace could not be obtained
309308The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 here signified his dissent from the statement that nobody would have accepted the situation but himself.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to order. The hon. gentleman had just made one of the most outrageous personal attacks on his right hon. friend, which had ever been heard in that House. With respect to the justice or propriety of the attack thus made, heMr. Yorke
310 rose to order—(Here the disorder became general, and cries of
310Mr. Ponsonby
 declared, that every offensive impression which the hon. gentleman had made, more on the feelings of his hon. friends than on his own, was completely removed. He had certainly not attributed to the hon. gentleman that which he imagined him to have done. As to the question immediately before the House, he held it to be desirable that in populous towns the soldiery ought rather to be kept apart, than to be quartered on the people. The hon. gentleman had again alluded to the Orders in Council; but could they be said to prevent the importation of corn, when it was generally known that, notwithstanding their operation, eight millions had been paid last year for foreign corn imported? The fact was, that the scarcity was felt as severely in France at present as in England.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
317ll316 said, that if the chairman had not called the attention of the Committee to the immediate business before them, he certainly should have done so; he would not however take up much of its time. The hon. and learned gentleman
317ll316Mr. Ponsonby
 thought any delay unnecessary. No farther information could be furnished on the subject; and the military department had declared the bar-racks indispensibly necessary.Mr. Wharton
318 was ready to maintain, that the Orders in Council were not the cause of producing a greater state of distress in the country. They did not prevent a supply; on the contrary, they gave facility to the supply, in aid of the people. Grain principally came from the Baltic,
318Mr. Rose
 said he had been very hardly dealt with in the business alluded to. He confessed that some such comparison had fallen from him [Laughter]—but denied that he had treated the distresses of the Birmingham petitioners with any thing like levity.Mr. Rose
 agreed that the Orders in Council had no immediate effect in producing the scarcity of food, though it was equally true, that by reason of those Orders in Council, the manufacturers were deprived of the means of purchasing food, were it before them in abundance. Every thing, in his opinion, depended on economy in our expenditure, and, therefore, he was against the present grant.Mr. Baring
lll319 objected to a grant which
lll319Mr. Wynn
 said, the estimate only corresponded with other estimates.Mr. Wharton 
 said, that ground for exercising was to be inclosed to the amount of about 27 acres.Mr. Wharton
l said the question was not, whether this sum should be voted at all or not; but whether or not time should be given to the Committee to understand what they were doing. All he should say, if it was true that Prance and England were now to be compared to two men up to the neck in water, and if in such circumstances, barracks for 350 soldiers were to cost England 133,000lMr. Ponsonby
 strongly objected to a larger grant than was proved to be necessary, particularly for the erection of bar-racks, which that House and the country had been accustomed to regard with a jealous eye. The speech of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer too, furnished additional ground for postponing the grant till the House was better informed.Lord Folkestone
 said, that the sum proposed was not for procuring accommodation for the horses and men alone, but for the Staff also, for an inclosed exercising ground, and for temporary accommodation within the walls for a larger body of horse, when occasion should require.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
315314313 confessed that he did not hear the first speech of the hon. gent. but he had the misfortune to hear the two last. He should certainly think himself greatly wanting in his duty to the public, if he did not endeavour to counteract, by every effort in his power, the mischievous misrepresentations of the measures of government which were circulated insidiously through the country. Those misrepresentations were calculated to divert the resources of the country from that patriotic channel in which they ought to flow, into a channel of disaffection; they were calculated to make men turn away their confidence from the conductors of our public affairs, and to make them believe, that until certain measures were adopted—until a change, which he knew to be impossible, should take place—the country could never regain its former prosperity. It was the proper and peculiar duty of a member of parliament not to suffer the public to be deluded by artful misrepresentations,—not to suffer their ignorance or their prejudices to be worked upon by those persons in the country, who seemed to spend their time and talents in poisoning the minds of the people. He could conceive nothing more mischievous in a political, nor more infamous in a moral sense, than the propagation of falshood which was now disseminated; of falshood he should say, because there were many members on the benches opposite, and even the hon. gentleman himself (Mr. Whitbread) who had admitted at various times that the effect of the Orders in Council was not such as was now attributed to them. He held in his hand a paper which was just one of that description which now crowded the country newspapers, and in hand bills crept through the country; this paper was signed "A Staffordshire Potter," and it set out with a most notorious falshood, that before the Orders in Council, and under the first operation of Buonaparté's decrees, our trade was not diminished. (Hear, hear, from Mr. Baring.) What? did he hear a cheer from any gentleman opposite? or was the cheer from him who had often taken part in debates on this subject, and who must, therefore, be well acquainted with the truth of the fact which he was alluding to? Did the hon. gentleman mean that the representation of the paper was right? If so, he should certainly move a resolution on the fact, and have it officially before the House (Move, move!
315314313Mr. Stephen
l observed, that barracks had been built in his neighbourhood for 100 cavalry, at an expence of about 6,000lMr. Calcraft
 would not consent to repeal the Orders in Council, though it were even true that he could get nine shillings a pound for his sugars in France. If the two countries must be like two fellows pumping, each striving to save himself the longest above water, let it be so; but Old. England should never yield to France.Mr. Fuller
 did not suppose that the right hon. gentleman could have thought of treating with levity persons in so perilous a situation as he himself had described.Mr. Whitbread
 appealed to the Committee if there was a single man in the House who had had the smallest idea of the nature of this grant till now. Either the right hon. gentleman who spoke last knew more on this subject than the Secretary of the Treasury did, or the latter had not done his duty. He asked, would the hon. Secretary not now agree to postpone this grant? Or would not the Committee feel a jealousy how they acceded to the granting of money on such an estimate?Mr. Whitbread
 said, that the petitioners who had come to government, and also to parliament, complained that they were in a state of starvation arising from the want of employment, in consequence of which they were without money to buy food—a situation to which they were reduced in consequence of the Orders in Council. He had observed it stated, that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) had, to some of those petitioners who waited upon him from Birmingham, compared France and England to two men up to their neck in water, who must try which of them could stand the longest without being drowned. He could not suppose that the right hon. gentleman had so expressed himself. He was satisfied the right hon. gentleman could not have used such a metaphor, conceiving as he did, the good ship of England to be so high above water.Mr. Whitbread
 repeated the statement, maintained the truth of it, and added, "If you doubt me, I refer you for information to a Letter signed Spencer Perceval." (Loud cries of Order from all parts of the House, followed this expression, and Mr. Whitbread attempted for some time in vain to be heard).Mr. Whitbread
 rose, evidently in great agitation, and began by declaring that if it was not in that House, he would ask the warmest friend or the loudest cheerer of the right hon. gentleman, whether the whole of his speech was not a gross misrepresentation? The right hon. gentleman was mistaken if he supposed that he had obtained a victory over him. No; it was a victory over his own invention. The House of Commons was a fine place—the constitution of England was a great thing—every thing was to be admired, respected, and supported, when an adventurer from the bar was raised by his talent for debate to a great situation, but a great situation which nobody but himself could have accepted under such circumstances.Mr. Whitbread
 in explanation, stated, that his objection went only to the grant for building barracks.Mr Whitbread,
307306 said, that the right hon. gentleman appeared to him to have adopted erroneous views upon the subject, when he thought it of such little consequence to separate the soldiers from the people, as to be surprised at any objection to a grant for that purpose The right hon. gentleman had not argued that general question; the time was gone by; but he would declare it as his sentiment, that he was extremely jealous, and he was sure the country at large was jealous of the separating system. It had been said, that great advantage was likely to be derived from the labours of the Commissioners appointed to audit General Delancey's accounts. Perhaps at the end of four or five years, if the country should exist so long under such financiers, that advantage would greatly increase with the practices that rendered it necessary. But whence did the advantage arise? What was the necessity under which this boasted saving was made? The want of care in the controuling power. The negligence and mismanagement of those who, by proper application, ought to have prevented the occurrence of evils instead of leaving us to be obliged to the commissioners for the ascertainment of their extent. It was expected that if the commissioners proceeded, many other defalcations would appear. To him this was not consoling. An hon. gentleman had stated once, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the victim of the departments, and the public were given to understand that the hon. gentleman had left the Treasury through disgust at the want of a sufficient controul. But did the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer think, that he wanted military controul over the people of this country? Even at the end of the war, which the right hon. gentleman seemed to think would last long, and which he was sure would last as long as the career
307306Mr. Whitbread
311 got up again, and confessed he had risen in some heat, and unconsciously at the time had exceeded the limits of debate. He would however say, that if he was described as having told the people that they were to regard the government rather than Buonaparté as their enemy, it was a gross misrepresentation. Unfortunately it was too much a practice to identify the government with the minister, and convert the fair claims of the former to support and attachment, into a blind approbation of the measures of the latter. Whatever might be the construction put upon his words; he was determined ever to speak out in the House of Commons, to conceal no part of the truth, and to lend no helping hand to the delusion, any more than to the ruin of the people. He knew nothing more likely to prove destructive to the safety and greatness of the people than the prevalence' of a different doctrine. He did not confound the visitations of Providence, with the decrees of France, or the measures of the right hon. gentleman. But he knew that thousands of manufacturers were now out of employment, and that tens of thousands were now working at reduced wages, which scarcely sufficed to procure them subsistence. Was he, when he declared this, telling the hungry man that he had no bread? He knew that an unreformed House of Commons had approved of all the proceedings of the right hon. gentleman, and of all his Orders in Council, but he knew too, that the people and the merchants out of the House, were, in every part of the kingdom, of very different opinions. Was not this table already covered with petitions, that daily multiplied; and had he indeed abandoned all his patriotism, when he stated this? As to what he had said with respect to peace, how was it possible for him to speak positively as to the fitness of the present moment,
311Mr. Whitbread
, the chairman, then declared his opinion to be, that Mr. Whit-bread had been out of order.Mr. Lushington
 objected to granting a larger sum than it was calculated the intended barracks would cost.Mr. Fremantle
 did not mean to throw the least imputation on the Barrack Board, who were obliged to obey the directions of government. The sums, however, did appear to him to be very exorbitant.Mr. Fremantle
lll302l saw many things in those Estimates, which appeared to him to require a great deal of explanation. New buildings which would bring on a very considerable expence, appeared in one part of the accounts to be ordered by the Commander-in-Chief, and in another part of them, he was at a loss to know whether the whole of this expence was now to be submitted to parliament. The expence of the Estimates for building barracks, appeared to be regularly increasing without any apparent cause. After adverting to the expences of the new buildings at Bexhill, he made several observations on the estimate of the new barrack projected to be built in what was called the Regent's Park. This barrack, which was only intended for the second regiment of Life Guards, was to cost 138,000lll302lMr. Fremantle
ll303 said, that notwithstanding the explanation which had been given, he could not feel satisfied. He remembered, that when he was at the Treasury, it had been proposed to build a magnificent barrack at Islington, and the ground was actually marked out for it. Now, although this was strongly recommended by military authorities, the Treasury thought the
ll303Mr. Huskisson
ll said, he should move that instead of 534,000llMr. Huskisson
l agreed with the ideas of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, on the question immediately before the House. If the House was prepared, without document of any kind, to say that 133,500lMr. Huskisson
304l thought the House ought to pause before it came to a vote out of all proportion to the objects specified. He wished to call their attention to one item, namely, that of 25,000304lMr. Parnell
338337336l335334333 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the production of the Appointment of colonel M'Mahon to the new office of Private Secretary to his royal highness the Prince Regent. When he first gave notice of his intention to make this motion, he little thought that he should have been called upon to go into the subject in detail. He had imagined, that it was as much a motion of course as that which he had a few minutes ago submitted to the House; but he now found that it was to be resisted; on what ground it was impossible for him to conceive. He should have thought, that this was a case, which of all others rendered it necessary that the subject should be regularly before the House, that it might receive a formal and deliberate consideration. The office was a new one. There was no precedent for it in the history of the public acts of this country. Such an office might, indeed, have privately existed for a few years back, from the necessity of the case; but in the constitutional history of this country there had never been any thing like it. Under these circumstances, when such an appointment had for the first time been publicly avowed, surely it was but just and reasonable that the House of Commons should have that appointment formally before them, that they might perform their duty in examining into the matter, and expressing their opinion whether it was fitting or not that such an office should exist. He never recollected that such a motion under such circumstances
338337336l335334333Mr. C. W. Wynn
l342341340339 said, that the hon. gentleman had raised this question to a degree of importance which could in no view belong to it. The hon. gentleman was not justified in describing the motion as one which it was the intention of ministers to resist, as his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), had said, that he had no objection to the production of the document in question; but that the grounds on which those documents were sought for, formed the objection to their production. For, if the object of the motion was to ground an impeachment of the appointment upon them, without any view to the instrument under which it was made, further than the production of it, he should certainly resist it, as he conceived that appointment necessary, under the circumstances which gave rise to it. The mere minute of the Treasury which constituted the appointment could not be necessary
l342341340339Lord Castlereagh
330 presented a Petition from several manufacturers of china and earthenware in the Staffordshire potteries; setting forth,330Lord Leveson Gower
348347346345344 observed, that the question could be considered only in two points of view, either as the office brought under their consideration was illegal, or as it was inexpedient. Before, however, he proceeded to offer his opinions to the House upon those two divisions of the question, he should advert to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who spoke last. He had advanced, if not in precise language, at least in well understood insinuation, a doctrine altogether extraordinary, and, he would say, unconstitutional. If he understood his meaning at all, he believed him to assert, that it was a great and eminent virtue in a monarch to be influenced in the choice of his public officers, by the remembrance of past attachments, that the feelings which that remembrance might be supposed to excite,
348347346345344The Chancellor of the Exchequer
352prima facie;l351350349 thought the right hon. gentleman was perfectly right in making a speech for the hon. member (Mr. Elliot), in order that he might be able to answer it in his own way. The fact was, that the hon. member referred to, had never alluded to any sovereign, in particular, who chose the public servants of the crown merely from feelings of private friendship; and for his own part he hoped that no king of England in the present or in future times could be found capable of choosing his ministers solely on account of private services or private friendship. The Prince Regent, he felt assured, was above any such temptation; and he believed that any person offering such advice, poisoning his ear with such doctrines, would receive a contemptuous dismissal from his royal
352prima facie;l351350349Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, that the more the House heard of this business the more they must feel surprised that his hon. friend (Mr. Wynn), after reflection, had persisted in his motion. He was anxious to rescue his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) from that species of misconstruction which had been too frequently practised on the opposite side of the House—he alluded to the assertion made by the right hon. gentleman who had spoken last, that his right hon. friend had invented a speech in order to have an opportunity of answering it.—The only proof of this invention which had been adduced was, a statement that his hon. friend had imputed to the gentleman on the other side of the House, the use of the words "illegal and unconstitutional," when no such words had been uttered. He believed that his right hon. friend was perfectly correct in asserting, that the hon. mover of the question had described the office as illegal—[Mr. Wynn said. No! No! across the table].—The hon. gentleman said he had not used the assertion, and he had no doubt he was right; however, it was of little import, whether the word illegal or unconstitutional was used, for that which was unconstitutional could not be legal.—He did not, however, believe, that one constitutional principle had been violated by the appointment in question. If his Majesty had not been afflicted with his present calamity, notwithstanding all the advantages he possessed, from the immense accumulation of business since the year 1805, it would have been impossible for him to have executed his functions without that species of accommodation which had been afforded his royal highness the Prince Regent, by the appointment of col. M'Mahon.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 wished to know what were the functions of the private secretary? Colonel Taylor's appointment formed no precedent. The present was like a question about a favourite or minion. He remembered when he was abroad in Russia, in the Emperor Paul's time, when prodigious activity seemed to prevail in the offices, and even the petty matters and details of the dress regiments were made concerns of the most serious importance, there was a person, sprung from low extraction, who rose in favour till he was actually made Privy Counsellor and Private Secretary to the emperor. This man was most about the imperial person, and every communication was made through him. Though he held only those two offices, all the parasites of the court fawned upon him. After some time, it appeared he was subservient to the views of France. He destroyed the influence of the ministers, who were there responsible to no parliament, overcame a proud nobility, turned them out of all places, and ultimately laid that country at the foot of French intrigue. He did not mean to say, that colonel M. was a man likely to do this: but it was right to look at the possibility of bad successors to such an office under some future weak prince. Seeing the possibility of such a danger, he should vote for the motion.Lord Folkestone
 would vote against the motion, because he conceived it a party question, and not involving any thing constitutional. Surely they would not refuse the Prince Regent a private secretary, when they allowed three to a military commander.Mr. Marryat
 contended, that the hon. gentleman had mixed the barrack expenditure with the building of barracks, and that the whole expence of barracks since the commencement of the war, did not amount to within two millions of the sum he had stated.Mr. Wharton
 replied, when the House divided,Mr. W. Wynn
361 said, that he voted against the last appointment of colonel M'Mahon, because it was directly in the teeth of a resolution of the House. As to the present appointment, he had not heard any ground of opposition to it. The hon. gentleman on the other side had alluded to members who had lately changed their seats. If he had changed his seat, he certainly had not changed his mind; for he would give the same conscientious vote now that he gave then. In this new era he did not doubt but many members would have been glad to have changed sides; and he knew that even the hon.
361Mr. Charles Adams
l363lllll362 regarded the present as a most important question. The hon. member for Yorkshire had approved of the appointment on the ground that the Prince Regent was too weak and infirm an old gentleman to act without it, and thus, for once in his life, had made up his mind to a decided vote. He understood the hon. member also to bestow his approbation on the proceeding, because there had been a great addition to the business of the sovereign. Now where was the addition to be discovered? Was it in the foreign office? Had the present foreign minister more to communicate to his Royal Highness than his predecessor had to the King? Was it in the home department; Admitting this to have increased, was it not known that all the details were managed by the minister, leaving to the Prince nothing but the task of affixing his signature—a task from which no private secretary could relieve him. He hoped the hon. member for Yorkshire, on informing himself a little better on this part of the question, would see reason for changing his opinion. The only duty that could be named, certainly appeared to be that described by his hon. friend, of assorting and tying up papers in red tape, although the hon. gentleman, for the first time he believed in that House, had talked of the necessity of attending to the Prince's private concerns. The private secretary truly was to assist the Regent in his private correspondence. Now really, he was not aware of any increase in the private friends of that illustrious person which made such an appointment necessary. And if there were, what necessity was there for making the private letter-writer a privy counsellor? Colonel Taylor might or might not be private secretary to his Majesty, but he had no right to assume that he held such a situation. His appointment was not gazetted. He understood that his Majesty objected to his being a privy counsellor, not being willing to recognize the necessity of assistance in the discharge of his royal duties from any quarter whatever. Colonel Taylor, though not paid out of the privy purse, was paid out of the royal and special bounties; his salary never met the public eye, and it
l363lllll362Mr. Tierney
354 declared his readiness to look at this question in every point of view, but that he was utterly unable to see any thing of that alarming nature, or of those dangerous consequences apprehended by his hon. friends. He had often heard that to be placed at the head of the government was a situation of great labour and hardship; but it would indeed be a situation of hardship if the sovereign was to be denied that assistance which was possessed by every one of his ministers. He was surprised to hear alarm carried to such an extravagant length as to suppose
354Mr. Calcraft
ll should vote with all his heart and soul against the motion. Did not they allow on the other side that his Royal Highness had an immense number of private letters to write? And was that no ground for the appointment? Gentlemen should recollect, that when his Majesty ascended the throne, he was young and hearty.—That he used to get up and go to bed early.—And that he was quite able to go through all his papers without any help. Now did not they know that the Prince Regent was not so young, and that he would therefore want a secretary? The question was a Grenville question. It was worse than a party question. If the Grenvilles wanted to be so very patriotic, why did not some of the family throw up their sinecures? It would have been real patriotism to take no more of the public money from an overburthened people; not to be sucking their blood as those patriots seemed, out of affection, determined to do. Sinecures that, when they were conferred on that family, were worth but about 5 or 6,000llMr. Fuller
 proposed instead of the word "now," "this day se'nnight."Mr. Whitbread
l358l357l356355—Sir, this is a new æra indeed. This it seems is a period when early friendships come to be naturally sacrificed. If on entering this House I had happened to hear the voice of my honourable friend who has just sat down, I would have hazarded any wager that he was raising it in support of the motion. I am sorry to find this difference of opinion among early political friends. Sir, he has arraigned my honourable friend for making this motion, a motion which the right hon. gentleman opposite has declared, and certainly his manner corresponded with his declaration, he felt sincere satisfaction at seeing brought forward.—The appointment of colonel Taylor has been quoted in defence of the appointment of colonel M'Mahon, and unquestionably it is true that the former appointment was highly
l358l357l356355Mr. Whitbread.
 explained; and said, that in the various trades he was engaged in, he employed many clerks: he had one private one, but he paid him out of his own pocket.Mr. Whitbread
, in explanation, denied having used the expressions respecting the private attachments of the sovereign with the reference imputed to him by the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Elliot
l343l said, that whatever opinion he entertained of the new appointment which was under the discussion of the House, he felt that with respect to the illustrious personage who had been advised to make it, it was natural for him to feel a wish to reward a tried and faithful servant—for a faithful servant was a faithful friend, and fidelity in attachment was in all classes of life a distinguished virtue, nor was there any quality which tended more to exalt and elevate the character of a prince, than an adherence to those who had displayed towards him a tried and steady attachment. (Loud cries of Hear from the Opposition benches.)—But there was a marked distinction between the appointment of colonel Taylor and that of colonel M'Mahon, for in the former instance his Majesty had never called for the assistance of a private secretary until he was obliged to it, by his infirmities, whereas the illustrious personage in question was happily free from any thing of the kind. Colonel Taylor had been literally the hands and eyes of his Majesty; and to his everlasting honour be it said, that he discharged the duties of his office with such integrity, prudence, and reserve, as to shield himself against the shadow of reproach. If the ministers were incompetent to execute the duties assigned them, he was willing to afford them assistance, and, if necessary, he would consent that a fourth secretary of state should be established, even in a seat in parliament. But such a case of necessity had not yet been made out. If merely the arrangement of papers in boxes was to be the duty of the private secretary, it would not require that he should be a privy counsellor, or that his salary should be 2,000l343lMr. Elliot
365lllll objected to the Barrack Estimates. He said, that the barrack to be erected in the Regent's Park was estimated to cost 133,500365lllllMr. Fremantle
353 thought that the House must agree to the motion, for the purpose of passing a censure upon the appointment, and of reversing it, unless every thing that was constitutional was to be given up to the mere purposes of convenience. All the original objections to the office not alone remain unanswered, but had been
353Mr. Lamb
 declared, that with one exception, there could not, in his opinion, be a more unobjectionable appointment than that which was the subject of the present discussion. By the general acknowledgment, there was a greater weight of business on the sovereign at the present day, owing in a great measure to the extended scale of our military operations, than at any former period. If anyone voted against the motion, except on the conviction that there had been a great increase in public business, that person's view of the subject was very different from his. Under similar circumstances any man, even if he possessed the exertions and talents of the hon. gentleman who had just spoken, might want a secretary. The situation of private secretary was not one of responsibility, neither did it encroach on the province of any minister of the crown. The ministers of the crown would still be the legal and constitutional organs through which all the public business must be transacted; and they would be liable to the same responsibility after this appointment as before it. The necessity of a private secretary to the Prince was obvious. As a precedent it was not dangerous. It was indispensable. Even his present Majesty, the most laborious prince who had ever filled the British throne, had, towards the latter part of his reign, been almost overwhelmed with public business. At the same time he must frankly declare his wish, that colonel M'Mahon had been paid out of the privy purse. It would have been a more seemly and decorous proceeding; though certainly the publicity which the proceeding that had been adopted in preference gave to the appointment, was a kind of security against any secret influence. As he was on the subject of secret influence, he would mention to the House, that he once had a conversation with a noble lord, now no more (lord North), who, in a former part of his political life, had spoken of an influence behind the throne, greater than the throne itself; and that on his questioning that noble lord towards the close of his life, with respect to his then opinion on the existence of such influence, his lordship said that he did not believe that any such existed. He had often been joked about his doubts' as to his vote; but on this occasion he should have no hesitation in voting against the motion, because to vote for it would be to vote for the reversal of the appointment in question.Mr. Wilberforce
332331 presented a Petition from several merchants and manufacturers interested in the woollen trade, and resident in the West Riding of Yorkshire; setting forth,332331Lord Milton
371370369368 said, that be held in his hand a Petition from the Catholic inhabitants of the county and city of Cork, praying, that all persons professing the Roman Catholic persuasion, might be relieved from the pressure of those disabilities and disqualifications under which they at pre sent laboured: it was not his intention to go then at all into the discussion of a question, which was soon to be treated in a manner so much more suitable to its importance, but he begged the attention of the House, to the language and character of the Petition itself. It was every way
371370369368MR. Hutchinson
 conceived, that the powers of the Committee were already sufficient for those purposes; if not, he had no objection to the present motion. It was another question whether the Committee ought to apply itself immediately to this object, so as to supersede all other business. As to the pension of Mr. Hunt, it, had been all along withdrawn effectually, though not formally till last year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the Committee had the power, and if he had thought it expedient that the state of the balance should be known before the end of the session, he would, as chairman of that Committee, have undertaken the labour: as it was, he was ready to begin the business immediately, though, perhaps, it might be better not to embrace that mass of subjects to which their attention was now directed.Mr. Bankes
374 suggested
374The Chancellor of the Exchequer
375 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice respecting corporal punishments in the army. He began by observing, that he could not anticipate any serious objections to the motion which he was about to make. Returns were regularly laid before the House of the number of capital punishments inflicted, and he did not perceive that any greater inconvenience or danger was likely to result from publishing the number of punishments in the army. The punishments to which he now alluded were such as were not generally known; they were most debasing and degrading to the soldiers; and were attended with such cruelty and inhumanity that they were inflicted in secret, in holes and corners. [Hear, hear! from the ministerial benches.] He repeated it—in holes and corners; because it would not be possible to inflict so much torture and ignominy in open day, and in the face of the world, without the presence of an army to keep down the indignation of the people. The horrors of the middle passage had led to the destruction of the Slave Trade, and the horrors of the present system of military punishment, he hoped, would soon lead to its abolition. It was a mode of punishment objectionable in the first place because its infliction was arbitrary: in the second, because it varied with the varying powers and feelings of the sufferer; and in the third, because it had been proved to be utterly inefficacious as an example. Its abolition would greatly conduce to the good of the service by rendering recruiting more easy, and would be of advantage to the discipline of the army by freeing soldiers from that disgrace and debasement they were at present subject to. He concluded, therefore, with moving, "That there be laid before the House a return of the number of Corporal Punishments inflicted in the army, in the militia,
375The Hon. Mr. Bennet
382381380379378377 declared, that when the right hon. and learned gentleman announced his intention to oppose the motion, he had expected to hear rather more cogent reasons for his so doing. He had talked indeed of the necessity of producing some grave case as a foundation for this motion, but he seemed to forget that many such cases had been already brought before the consideration of the House. He had himself on a former occasion stated the instance of several men who had died at Gibraltar in consequence of flogging, as declared by the surgeon in the first instance, although he was afterwards induced to alter the return to "died of fever," and he had also stated, that several officers who had refused to join in that barbarous proceeding, had been dismissed the service, although on their return to this country they were reinstated on the representations of a distinguished officer (lord Hutchinson) to the Commander in Chief. He had recently seen in the public prints, many statements of suicide committed, in order to avoid this dreadful punishment, and that those men who had attempted suicide ineffectually, had actually received additional punishment for the attempt. To these statements he was inclined to give credit, because they could not be made, if false, without danger to the publishers. As to the compliments so often paid to the officers of the army, he believed, and he was not inclined to flatter any man, particularly
382381380379378377Sir F. Burdett
383I lictor, perge, cœdite observed, that this punishment was not peculiar to this country, as the hon. baronet appeared to imagine; but that among the Romans, the most high-minded and military nation of ancient times, corporal punishments were allowed. The dictators and consuls were attended by lictors, and the order was often given"383I lictor, perge, cœditeMr. Lockhart
 would vote for this motion, although he was not prepared to agree to the total abolition of corporal punishment. He thought that the frequency of it, however, might and ought to be much diminished; and that, except in extraordinary cases, such as the suppression of a mutiny, corporal punishment' ought never to be inflicted without previously consulting the commanding officer of the district. He believed that cruel punishments frequently proceeded from the mistaken notions of very young officers, who considered that nothing was more for the good of the army than great strictness and severity.Mr. C. W. Wynn
387386385 begged to call back the attention of the House to the question really before them. This was not a motion for the abolition of corporal punishments, but for the production of certain papers regarding military punishments. In resisting the production of the paper now called for, gentlemen on the other side did more mischief to the cause they wished to support than any return, however great as to the number and extent of punishments it contained, which the ingenuity of man could conceive, could by possibility effect. Must not it go out to the world that they opposed the production of the paper in question, because the number of punishments which it contained must fill all who perused it with astonishment and horror? And was not this idea calculated to irritate? If the account would shew a diminution of punishment, why should they run the risk of those misrepresentations or exaggerated reports which their refusing the information would naturally produce? It was not the hon. baronet therefore who was to blame in making to the House a statement calculated to pro duce alarm. It was the right hon. gentle man opposite, who told the House, that to
387386385Sir Samuel Romilly
389388 would impute only the purest motives to the supporters of the motion; but the effect of their arguments he was convinced would be productive of mischiefs of the greatest magnitude. Thinking as he did that the continuance of corporal infliction was a necessary evil, he was of opinion that he could not have done any thing more detrimental to the service, than if he had employed such language as had been used on the other side. He did not dread so much the dissemination of the truth, as he did the exaggerated misrepresentations that had been employed, and bringing forward into notice solitary instances of severity or suffering for which no parallel could be discovered. He admitted that there had formerly been cases where the punishment was partially inflicted at one time and completed at another, but the modern practice had been directly the reverse. It would have been well, there fore, had his hon. and learned friend, be fore he drew such a picture of the repetition of the punishment of flogging for the same offence, enquired whether such a practice was continued. The question of its legality had been submitted En his right hon. friend, the present Judge Advocate, and he had pronounced it not lawful. Why then was such a representation made, when no grounds for it any longer existed? It was likewise true that in some regiments corporal punishment was more frequent than in others; but the obvious reason was, because it was more deserved. Would the production of the document required throw the faintest light upon any of the cases which the hon. baronet had selected from the newspapers; to which authority, however, he declared that he gave little credit? Would it afford any information upon the instance of singular Insensibility which he had adduced with so much ostentation, and which (though taken from a newspaper) the hon. baronet implicitly believed? For his part, he was not quite so credulous, for he discredited the story altogether. The statement that was published bore upon the face of
389388The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, pointed out several misrepresentations in the speech of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which misrepresentations he was astonished to find cheered by the hon. gentleman opposite.Sir S. Romilly,
 said, he thought no thing could be farther from a slur on the army than the present motion. On the contrary, if such an account were annually laid on the table, it would, according to the hon. and learned gentleman's account of the attention of the commander in chief to the army, redound more to his honour than any thing that could be done by concealment. Nothing also would be so likely to give a new tone of feeling to officers in general, as the consciousness that the legislature would review their proceedings. He should, therefore, vote for the motion.Mr. Abercromby
393 could conceive nothing a greater insult to the service, than such allusions to flogging in the navy as had been just made by the hon. and learned gentle man, without giving the House the means of ascertaining their truth, by a statement
393Mr. Robinson
 could not recollect when.Mr. Robinson
 though not prepared to con cur entirely with the hon. baronet (Sir F. Burdett), or his hon. friend (Mr. Brougham), wished to vote for the motion, because the production of the paper was necessary to the case of gentlemen on the other side of the House.Mr. Lambe,
 shortly replied, when the House divided.Mr. Bennet
 spoke against the motion.Mr. C. Adams
392391390 supported the motion.—He was astonished at the line of argument adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. member for Yorkshire. The House were told, that if the motives of those who supported the present motion,
392391390Mr. Brougham
 professed himself willing to deliver up the book which he had alluded to, to the Admiralty. He believed it might be of service to them.Mr. Brougham
 wished to be informed by an hon. gentleman, at what lime returns of Corporal punishment were ordered by the Admiralty?Mr. Brougham
 corrected an hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett) in an assertion he had made respecting an order of the commander in Chief, refusing pensions to per sons labouring under blindness. That had occurred only where there was proof of deception.Mr. Long
 took that opportunity of explaining a circumstance which had occurred upon a former night, and which his absence had precluded him from then adverting to. An hon. baronet (Sir F. Burdett) had stated, that though the principal had been paid back to the public by Mr. Steele, the interest was lost. He there fore begged leave to state, that not only the whole of the principal had been paid up, but also every shilling of the interest.Mr. Long
 expressed himself to be of the same opinion. The refusal to grant the paper moved for, shewed that some abuses did exist; he thought, therefore, it ought to be produced; and in voting for that production, he disclaimed any intention of censuring the commander in chief, or the military system of which he was at the head.Mr. W. Smith
384 said, that he felt it impossible to avoid being carried away, in some measure, by the powerful effect of the statement of the hon. baronet, and by the warm feelings which he had displayed so honourably, and so forcibly. At the same time, when he considered what an army was, and how sharp and powerful an instrument it had proved against the enemies of the country, he thought there should be great caution used before any very important alteration was made in our military system. He was aware that generals
384Mr. Wilberforce
 conceived, that if it was the object of the hon. mover to revive the debate on the question of corporal punishment, this object might be attained without acceding to the present motion. If the returns were desired merely for the purpose of examining whether there were any cases of abuse, he thought it hardly a fair proceeding; and that the only ground which could induce the House to consent to the motion was the previous production of such cases. It certainly would not be difficult to procure the returns, because under the excellent system of management introduced and adopted by the commander in chief, the most minute records were preserved. The Present illustrious commander in chief had laboured incessantly to bring the discipline of the army to the highest possible state of perfection, and as speedily and generally as possible to do away corporal punishment; but such an alteration could be effected only by degrees. There was much variety of opinion on the subject, even in the army; and he believed if that whole body was consulted, whether corporal punishment should be altogether abolished, there would be as much difference on the subject among the men in the ranks, as among the officers who commanded them. No slur ought to be thrown on the administration of the army, without just cause. As to the effects of the punishment on the discipline of the army, what better answer could be given than to appeal to the character of that army, and the mutual attachment that prevailed between the officer and the soldier. His great objection to the revival of this discussion was, that it tended to unsettle the military mind, to lead the army to believe that there must be grievances, though to them unknown, which caused the subject to be so often agitated. He could not see how the abstract question could be elucidated or assisted by the production of these re turns; and as he believed that no practical advantage could result from it, while its natural effect must be to impute remiss ness to the commander in chief, whose in defatigable attention to the welfare, interests and even comfort of the soldier was denied by none, he felt himself compelled to withhold his assent from the motion.Mr. Manners Sutton
 repeated his reasons for wishing that, before the session closed, the public might be put in full possession of the most accurate details that could be made out respecting these defalcations.Sir J. Newport
373lllll372 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for an instruction to the Committee of Public Expenditure, to enquire into the balance due to the public in consequence of certain public defalcations. He admitted that, with respect to some of those defaulters, a great part, if not the whole of the money, had been recovered; but it was as certain, that with respect to many others, but a Very small part had been recovered, and in some, that the whole had been irrecoverably lost. He thought that the public had a right to be put in possession of an accurate detail of what was lost, and what recovered, in each of those instances; they had, in short, a right to know the actual state of those accounts: it was but justice to the individuals, who had so far lessened the culpability of their conduct by paying up the whole of the deficiency, that the public should know that such individuals had made the best amends within their power; it was necessary too, that the public should know, what progress had been made, or was making, in the recovery of the sums due, and what was the amount of those sums which were concluded to be irrecoverably lost to the public. These were matters which he thought it became the duty of that House at any time to investigate, more especially in so advanced a period of the life of the present parliament.
373lllll372Sir J. Newport
401 presented a Petition from the lord mayor, sheriffs, commons, and citizens of the city of Dublin, in common council assembled, 10th April 1812, setting forth, "That the lord mayor, sheriffs, commons, and citizens, of the city of Dublin, whose loyalty to their most gracious sovereign, and his royal ancestors, monarchs of these realms, has ever been firm and unequivocal,
401Mr. Shaw
416ll415l414413412411, on rising to move for the production of certain papers connected with the trade now carried on under the Licence system, observed, that he had refrained from bringing the subject forward at an earlier period, only from a wish that his right hon. friend, the Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, should attend in his place on the discussion of a question in which, from the office he held, he must feel so deep an interest. He now wished that these papers should be laid before the House previous to that grave decision which they might expect soon to be called on to make with respect to the numerous petitions against the Orders in Council.—He had communicated his intention to submit this motion to the right hon. gentleman opposite, who desired to consult with the Judge of the Court of Admiralty before he answered as to the objections which he might have to make to the motion. After consulting with that right hon. and learned gentleman, the right hon. gentleman bad acquainted him with the necessity which he felt of opposing the production of these papers. He should have imagined, there fore, that his right hon. friend, the Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, would have deemed it necessary on this occasion to attend, and inform the House on what general grounds it was, that he was averse to produce documents, without which it was impossible to have an accurate knowledge of the frauds, the perjuries and forgeries with which the Licence trade was carried on. The speech of the right hon. the Vice President of the Board of Trade, when the Orders in Council were lately under consideration, had filled him with great anxiety, which he had shewn per
416ll415l414413412411The Hon. William Herbert
 expressed his utter astonishment at the motion just read, calling upon the House to pass the strongest censure upon the Court of Admiralty, without the slightest testimony being adduced to prove that it was well founded. He complained that the expressions which he had used in a recent debate on this subject had been much misrepresented; and he was convinced in his conscience that there was much less of perjury in the courts of Admiralty under the licence system, than what formerly existed in the neutral system. At that time, enemy's property was only introduced into this country through the medium of its being falsely sworn to be neutral property: whereas at present, there was no occasion for perjuries of that nature, as it could be introduced by licences. He was firmly persuaded, that if the system now adopted were abandoned, the consequence would be the extinction of the commerce of Great Britain.Mr. Rose
409 rose to
409Sir F. Burdett
 seconded the motion.Mr. Bennet
 said, that it was not usual to accede to such motions as the present, unless some strong ground was shewn to the House to induce them to take the matter into farther consideration. He thought that the hon. baronet had not made out a case sufficiently strong. As to the buying of places, and lord Barham's implication in such traffic, he did not know how it might have been; but nothing of that sort, he apprehended, could now happen, as the sale of a clerkship would subject the seller to a high responsibility. He could not allow the peculiar hardship insisted on by the hon. baronet, as the clerks had all consented to the present arrangement.Mr. Yorke
410 said, that these clerks did not ask for privileges above others in similar situations; they wished only to be put on precisely the same footing. He could not conceive that this application would induce other clerks to lay their case before parliament, as the present was one of a peculiar nature. It was, in his mind, an additional motive for acceding to his proposition, that the conduct of lord Barham might be enquired into; especially as, from what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, it appeared that such conduct was now properly stigmatised by the government. Lord Barham's
410Sir F. Burdett
 agreed that the Resolution read from the chair was ill-timed and imprudent, and that, notwithstanding the declared opposition that was to be given, it would have been better simply to have moved for the papers. He felt the full weight of the remark of the hon. gentleman who spoke last, and was convinced that no profit which Great Britain could derive from fraud, could compensate for the injury that would arise from the destruction of the public morals. As to the proceedings of the court of Admiralty, he was not prepared to give any positive opinion, without much previous inquiry, and therefore moved as an amendment, That this House will, on the I st May, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the state of the trade of this country as carried on by licences." Should, however, this suggestion, as he supposed it would, be negatived, he should recommend to his hon. friend to move for the production of the various documents to which he had referred.Mr. Ponsonby
l.418l could not support the amendment, although he thought it not so objectionable as the Resolution, which conveyed a strong censure on the Admiralty Court, in the absence of the right hon. judge (sir William Scott).l.418lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
417 was surprized that the motion had not been confined to the production of papers, on which the hon. gentleman might, perhaps, have founded some
417Mr. H. Thornton
 thought it inexpedient, in the present hardships of the times, to encourage any hopes of increase of salary which could not be realized. Other clerks might also be induced to come forward with similar applications.Sir C. Pole
407406405404403402 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of
407406405404403402MR. PARNELL
—I much regret. Sir, that I did not enter the House a few minutes earlier, whilst the Petition just read was under cognizance of the House, that I might have enabled this House, by a statement of circumstances which occurred in that very assembly of the corporation of Dublin which framed that Petition, duly to estimate its value, and that of the meeting whose sentiments it conveys. It was there proposed to grant the freedom of the city of Dublin to major O'Donoghoe, in consideration of the signal valour and ability which that gallant officer had displayed in the defence of Tariffa, against an infinitely superior French force. His eminent services in that defence were proved by his being entrusted with the dispatches, which bore testimony to his distinguished gallantry. The majority of that corporate assembly gave a decided negative to the freedom, which was expressly refused to major O'Donoghoe be because he was a Roman Catholic! How striking is the display of loyal attachment to the constitution, in thus withholding from the brave defenders of their country their well-earned rewards!Sir John Newport.
 answered, that he had certainly mentioned his intention of submitting certain resolutions on that subject to a Committee of the whole House the week after next;, and, if he had altered his intention, he should have signified the same to the House. It was his intention not only to submit that business to the consideration of the House, but to carry it through during the present session, unless difficulties should arise of which he had at present no conception.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lll429l428 rose, and said, that it was impossible for him to see Petitions of this kind, signed by 14,000 persons, presented to that House, without feeling a sensation of regret that they should so silently be ordered to lie on the table. He could not think of the distresses under which the Petitioners laboured, and which in other places had led to confusions and riots of the most alarming kind, without in some measure calling the attention of the House to the subject. The effects which these Orders in Council were calculated to produce were now seen on the people of England. The present Petitioners were not disloyal or disaffected persons—they were not men disposed to obstruct the government—but to support it. They had even been willing to suppose that the measures adopted were salutary ones, and, in expectation of a change for the better, the masters had gone on keeping their
lll429l428Mr. Baring
l430 said, as the Orders in Council would soon, as stated by the hon. gentleman, come before them for general discussion, he would now abstain from that subject so incidentally introduced. With respect to the Licence trade, too, as the papers and licences were to be laid on their table on Monday; it would, perhaps, be as well to leave that matter till a
l430Mr. Rose
439438 said, he did not rise to discuss the policy and expediency of the Orders in Council, which would soon come under the consideration of parliament; that it had not come sooner, the hon.
439438Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that something more was due to the Petitioners than merely to lay their petitions on the table; they ought to be taken into consideration. Under this impression, he should consider it to be his duty to make a motion on the subject. So far from encouraging the violent measures which had been pursued in various parts of the country, he strongly reprobated them; but conceiving that the Petitioners ought to be heard, he gave notice that he should, on Monday, the 27th, submit a motion to the House for that purpose.Lord Stanley
, adverting to what had fallen from an hon. gentleman (Mr. Whitbread) respecting the commercial loan, the payment on the next instalment being due to-morrow, wished to state, as chairman of the committee, that great numbers of the subscribers would have been glad that the day of payment was further postponed; but they were ready nevertheless.Lord Binning
l, in explanation, stated, that vessels could not go out in ballast—they must take out to the value of 5lMr. Rose
436435 said, he did not rise to enter into any general discussion on the Orders in Council; but after what had passed, he felt himself called on to make a few observations. The hon. gentleman had stated, that the petitions came from persons who had an opportunity of forming their opinions by experiment, upon the evils resulting front the Orders in Council; now this he apprehended they could not; for the very point upon which he and the hon. gentleman were at issue at the present moment, was, whether those evils proceeded from the Orders in Council, or from other causes? It was true that these person" were competent to state the pressure which was felt in trade, but he knew not how they could decide whether that pressure would have been less if the Orders in Council had never existed: or whether in fact the Berlin and Milan Decrees would have produced the mischief without them. He would say, that not only our difficulties had not increased since the adoption of these Orders, but that the whole trade of the country was in a better state. He was surprised to find the hon. gentleman's knowledge of trade so far overborne by his zeal against the measures of government, as to induce him to say, the Orders in Council were to prevent neutrals from trading with the enemy. He would maintain that the end was to open all trade, even to France itself, if France would trade with Great Britain. France had prohibited trade with Great Britain, and Great Britain had prohibited all trade to France, but what should go through Great Britain. The result was a pressure upon France, such as must compel her to open her ports to the trade of this country. He
436435The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that attempts had been made to inflame the minds of the manufacturers against his Majesty's ministers by circulating a report that the licences were issued only for the purpose of increasing the fortunes of a few private individuals.Mr. Marrryatt
 moved the second reading of the Sinecure Bill.Mr. Bankes
 did not rise to oppose the progress of the Bill, but to state that he conceived it was not framed on a right principle, and therefore it was but fair to the hon. gentleman and to the House to state, that when the blanks were filled up, he should discuss the principle, and endeavour to convince the House that it was so erroneous that it ought not to be adopted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the principle of the Bill was not objectionable. He stated that he should propose in the committee to fill up the blanks on that day se'nnight.Mr. Bankes
445 replied to part of the objections of the last speaker, and to part only, because he conceived that no inconsiderable portion of the arguments made use of by the right hon. gentleman were wholly inapplicable to the question immediately before the House. The greater part of the speech they had just heard was to points which had already gone by, and which the House had already decided upon. With respect to the suggestion of the propriety of creating a new fund by the abolition of the King's Household, he put it to the House, whether if the King's state of health was wholly irrecoverable, they would hear of any proposition to abolish during his life those provisions they had already made for his comfort and splendor, as far as either could be consulted. But even if the reduction did take place, he denied that the saving resulting therefrom would do more than provide for two of the Princesses. As to the fund upon which it was charged, the objection could have scarcely been meant in seriousness, because it was notorious that the hereditary revenues had merged in the consolidated fund. He certainly could not consent to the change
445The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that in the former Bill the grant was to take place at a future period, but that in the present Bill it was to take place immediately, and must therefore be charged on the fund immediately applicable. In 1806, when an additional grant was made to the Princes, the ministers of that day naturally proposed that it should be charged on the consolidated fund; and he believed no instance could be found of a grant which was to take place immediately having been charged on the hereditary revenue.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 explained the manner in which the hereditary revenue was merged in the consolidated fund, and which rendered it impossible to make a charge on any distinct part of it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hereditary revenue of the crown was by no means so large as gentlemen opposite seemed to think.Mr. Rose
l448 discovered the right hon. gentleman's
l448Mr. Rose
 was suprised that now, for the first time, the hon. gentleman should have found an opportunity of giving vent to his feelings, upon so late a stage as the third reading of the Bill.Mr. Secretary Ryder
 bad no hesitation in acknowledging the error he had fallen into, in supposing that the speech he had just heard was the first made by the hon. gentleman; but however mistaken he might be as to him, he believed he was accurate in saying that many gentlemen at that end of the House, who had been that night so vehement against the Bill, particularly one honourable gentleman then in his eye, had not spoken against the Bill in any of its former stages.Mr. Secretary Ryder
449 contended, that there had been objections thrown out in the debate of that night, which they had never before heard of. He thought the claims of the Princesses irresistible, whether in reference to themselves personally, or as the daughters of their afflicted and venerable monarch—He did not court that sort of popularity to which certain gentlemen laid exclusive claim; he was persuaded however that the measure was a popular one. As to the Princess of Wales, she already had an independent provision, which the Princesses had not. He hoped that his right hon. friend would continue true to the confidence reposed in him, and not be tempted by any threats or attacks to
449Mr. Secretary Ryder
 then introduced several new clauses. On that being proposed by which the commencement of the operation of the Bill was fixed for the 18th of February last,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not rise for the purpose of answering the questions which had been put by the hon. gentleman. When he spoke of the conduct pursued by him and his friends, on the present and on similar occasions, when he had talked of delicacy, he did not flatter himself that his observations would be attended with much effect. But he thought it his duty to state his opinion, which he did not look upon as that of a single individual; for, if he knew any thing of the feelings of the public on this subject, there was no part of the conduct of the hon. gentlemen opposite which had created more disgust and disapprobation than the manner in which they had introduced this matter to the House. Though he by no means expected that what he had before said would have any weight with them, still he was surprised that the hon. gentleman should put a question to him on a business, with all the details of which he must be aware he (Mr. Ryder) was not acquainted. But, after the opinion he had given on the subject, if he even were perfectly master of those details, he should conceive himself as acting with extreme inconsistency if he returned an answer.Mr. Secretary Ryder
s451 having adverted to the little attention which bad been paid to its
s451Lord Folkestone
 observed, that the printing of the Bill would give no information as to the grounds on which ministers had thought fit to give up the right of the crown to priority of payment. If that information were desired, he would Cheerfully accede to the production of any documents from the Treasury, that might be deemed necessary; but this need not be a bar to the third reading of the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation.Lord Folkestone
 observed, that the hon gentleman's memory appeared to be much weaker than those of other hon. members. He, recollected, that the hon. gentleman had, on a former night, honoured the House with a very excelent, but not a very short argument on the Bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, as the Bill was introduced to re-enact a law which had expired three weeks ago, and as no evil, that he had heard of, had arisen from its cessation, the delay of a few days could produce no inconvenience.Lord Folkestone
 had no objection to the proposition, if such was the feeling of the House.Mr. Baring
l said, that Mr. Goldsmid's principal property consisted in 4,000,000lMr. A. Baring
l observed, that the additional sum granted in the early part of the present session to her Majesty, was so granted on the express representation that the Princesses were to remain with her: and now they came forward for separate establishments. The establishment of the Princess of Wales was only 5,000lLord A. Hamilton
452 expressed his surprise that the motion should be made at so late an hour, when the discussion was likely to occupy so much time. He, as well as
452Lord A Hamilton
440 attributed the distress in trade to the Orders in Council; the highest and the lowest, the richest and the
440General Tarleton
 thought the third reading might be postponed for a few days, without inconvenience, to give an opportunity for the printing of the Bill.Mr. Johnstone
 proposed his amendment, that instead of "the 18th February, 1812," "the demise of his Majesty" should be substituted.Mr. Tierney
 said, that the present grant might be charged on that part of the consolidated fund, which was constituted by the hereditary revenue.Mr. Tierney
444ll443lll442lllll441 rose, for the purpose of stating as shortly as he could, the objections that had determined him, however unwillingly, to resist the question just put from the chair. He acknowledged that from the very first there had been such a mystery thrown about the whole of the measures proposed to parliament for the establishment of the royal household, that he had had from the beginning no small distrust of them—that distrust, however, had not prevented him from looking at them again and again, and using all his industry to understand them—but in vain. He was as much in the dark as ever. The more he had considered the subject, the
444ll443lll442lllll441Mr. Tierney
l said, that it was 1,400,000lMr. Tierney
 merely wanted the grant to be charged on the hereditary revenue, so that on the demise of the crown, parliament would be enabled to ascertain what were the exact sums with which the revenue was burdened.Mr. Tierney
sss437 expressed his surprise at the speeches of the Vice President of the Board of Trade, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, at a moment when Petitions signed by so many thousands and tens of thousands were presented to the House. They had treated it as a new question. He remembered, when, two months ago, he had given the right hon. gentleman an opportunity of detailing his sentiments upon this subject, that he was referred to the returns of Mr. Irvine from the Custom-house docks, and told, upon their authority, that there was little or no misery. He hoped the House would not refuse to the people the poor
sss437Mr. Brougham
447446 said, that the speech of the right hon. gentleman was much more remarkable for what it had omitted to say, than for any thing it had said. The two most important points in the speech of his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney) had been passed over without the slightest allusion to either. He did not censure the right hon. gentleman for not attempting to do what he might have found it very difficult to do well—in certain cases where no ingenuity could defend, perhaps silence was at once the most prudent and the most candid extenuation. Be the motive what it might, it was certain that the right hon. gentleman did not say one word respecting either the Princess of Wales or the Princess Charlotte of Wales. Why the minister thought it prudent to say nothing upon a subject of such general importance he should not pretend to explain, but he questioned much if the country in general would be disposed to put the best construction upon a silence that was at best suspicious.—With respect to those topics upon which the right hon. gentleman was not afraid to speak out, he (Mr. Whitbread) did not think him much more successful than those upon which he had been silent. He had not explained why he did not, in the first instance, upon the memorable 18th of February, state at once the whole system of this increase of the household establishment. He had said, that the hereditary revenue merged in the consolidated fund, and that therefore it was immaterial upon which fund those annuities were charged; never was there a greater fallacy in point of argument; because, though it had so merged, was there a doubt that upon the demise of the king, the hereditary revenues only would be answerable to the claims of the annuitants, provided those annuities had been charged upon that fund? He had told them that the Princesses approved of this increase. Of that there could be no doubt; but did
447446Mr. Whitbread
450, adverting to what the right hon. Secretary of State had said of delicacy, expressed his surprise that the right hon. Secretary had made this observation, at the same time that he must be aware of the course and conduct pursued by the right hon. gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) who sat next him, on an occasion highly interesting to that illustrious individual. He would ask if there had not been at a former period a solemn proceeding on the case of the Princess of Wales—if that case had not been referred by his Majesty to his ministers for their advice—if on that advice, her Royal Highness had not been received at court—if the right hon. gentleman's right hon. friend had not then caused to be
450Mr. Whitbread
, in explanation, denied having asserted, that it was improper for the Queen to hold a drawing-room. All that he said was, that the Princess of Wales ought to be placed in such a situation, as to enable her Royal Highness also to hold a drawing-room.Mr. Whitbread
 begged pardon of the right hon. gentleman, but if he was the person alluded to, it was another slight mistake, for he had resisted the Bill in every stage.Mr. Whitbread
, in explanation, observed, he had merely stated, that the right hon. gentleman had refused to give the extension to the subscribers. But whether there was more or less of distress he did not know.Mr. Whitbread
434l433432 conceded that the hon. baronet had given a true description of the condition of Birmingham; but while he gave credit to the hon. baronet, he was also bound to believe what was stated by the petitioners, who were Birmingham men, and whose account in some points varied very much from his. They stated, that if the Orders in Council were not revoked ruin would follow, and he perfectly believed the fact. It was true the labourers had not yet felt what it was to be out of employment, because the manufacturers, in an exemplary manner, and highly to their honour, bad in these perilous times forgone all those advantages to which commercial men usually looked—they had exhausted their capital for the sake of employing their men, and avoiding those dreadful consequences and disorders, the end of which it was not easy to foresee, but of which every moment was bringing them tidings from various quarters of the kingdom. In such circumstances, the House was peculiarly called on to do all that in them lay, to ward off impending ruin from persons of this meritorious description. All these things demanded enquiry, and proved the expediency of referring it to a committee to ascertain, by their deliberative wisdom, if in their complaint these manufacturers assigned the true causes, and what could be done for their relief. The House would
434l433432Mr. Whitbread
420419 said he held in his hand one Petition, and there were lying by his side, other Petitions of an exactly similar nature, signed by between 8,000 and 9,000 persons, praying for complete Liberty of Conscience to all the subjects of the Brisish empire. These Petitions were signed by Christions of all denominations, dissenting from the church of England. It was almost exactly similar to a Petition, which he had had the honour of presenting to the House on the same subject three years ago. In using the word "honour," he meant it not to be understood, not as in the ordinary course of expression, when a person presented any application to that House, but as expressive of the gratification which he felt, and honour which he esteemed to have been conferred on him, in having that Petition put into his hands by one of the most enlightened and liberal Christians in this or any other country. A man who, during a long life, had been distinguished for universal benevolence and charity, and who was still anxious, even at his advanced period of life, not to relax in his exertions, but to persevere to the ecd in that course, and for that object, for which he had laboured through life—good will to his fellow men, and peace on earth! After having said this, he was satisfied that he had sufficiently designated the person to whom he alluded, to be the Rev. M. Wyvill. The Petitions which he had to present were from York, Sheffield, Leeds, Hull, Norwich, &c.420419Mr. Whitbread
421 then said, that were it not for the circumstances of the present times, he should bring forward a specific proposition on the subject of these Petitions. Considering, however, that a right hon. friend of his had given notice of a motion which would shortly come before the House, and which would involve the interests of Christians of every denomination; going, as it naturally would, to the repeal of all the disabilities of the present day, he should wait, therefore, the result of that discussion, which, he presumed, would be for a committee of the House to take this important question into consideration. Being now on his legs, however, he begged leave to state, that unless the decision of the court of King's-bench on a case now pending before them, should render the thing unnecessary, he should submit to the House a motion on a subject not altogether unconnected with religious toleration. It had hither to been supposed, that it was required of magistrates to tender the oaths to persons wishing to qualify for preaching or teaching, who tendered themselves. This had hitherto been, considered to be the law, but it was
421Mr. Whitbread
 confirmed the statement just made by the right hon. gentleman, and supported the Bill.Mr. Courtenay
 wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question. That right hon. gentleman had lately signified his intention to bring forward certain propositions, the week after next, respecting the Company's renewal of their Charter. On former occasions of this kind, a statement of the Company's affairs had been laid before the House, which was referred to a Committee, and a report made thereon: but it would be impossible this could now be done, so that the members would have time to consider the report in the present session. He wished, therefore, to be informed by the right hon. gentleman, whether he meant to persist in his notice; as, considering all the outports of the country had their delegates in town, for the purpose of attending to this important question, it was highly desirable to know whether it would really come on or not?Mr. Creevey
422 presented a Petition from the commercial and manufacturing inhabitants of Dudley. He said he felt it his duty, in presenting this Petition, to state to the House, that in the populous neighbourhood of Dudley there was at this moment the greatest distress prevailing, from the very high price of provisions; that the higher classes of manufacturers in that town and neigbourhood had on all occasions evinced their loyalty and patriotism, and from these praiseworthy principles, had always endeavoured to alleviate the distresses of the working men, by expending their capitals in giving them employment, in hopes that the American markets would soon be opened, and the monopoly of the East India Company done away; so that new sources might be opened to the encouragement of British industry and adventure; but he was afraid it could not be done much longer; and it seemed necessary the House should give attention to the subject.422Mr. Lyttelton
 wished to correct a wrong impression which might have been made by some statements in the Petition. He much doubled whether all the manufacturers were employed He knew that previous to the meeting a kind of census had been taken of the number of manufacturers, and on the average nearly one-half were out of employ. It appeared also, that in some of the great manufactories only one-third were then employed; but in no instances were more than two-thirds employed.—With respect to parochial relief, there was no place in England where the poor were better off than in Birmingham. There were many friendly societies and clubs; from these they received consider-able benefits. He understood, however, that in the course of a few months there would be out of employ 70,000 manufacturers. He was aware that those who stated facts of this nature might be taxed with having inflammatory designs—with want of patriotism but the statement was true.Mr. Lyttelton
 begged pardon for interrupting the right hon. gentleman, but he had fallen into a slight mistake. Instead of this being the first time that he (Mr. Smith) had spoken against the Bill, it so happened that it was only the fourth!Mr. W. Smith
 opposed the Bill. He solemnly declared that from his soul he pitied the right hon. gentleman, when he reflected upon the feelings he must have experienced before he could have made up his mind to come down at such a time with such a proposition to the House.Mr. W. Smith
424423 presented a Petition from the master wardens searchers assistants and commonalty of the company of cutlers, within Hallamshire, in the county of York, setting forth,424423Mr. Wilberforce
425 presented a Petition from several merchants manufacturers and others the loyal inhabitants of the populous town of Sheffield, in the county of York, and its vicinity, setting forth,425Mr. Wilberforce
427426 presented a Petition from several merchants, manufacturers, and other
427426Sir Charles Mordaunt
 said, that when a motion was made for a Committee, it should have his support.Sir C. Mordaunt
431 confirmed the statement, that Birmingham was not actually in that state of distress which warranted the
431Sir C. Mordaunt
 complained, that he had not yet had an opportunity of fully expressing his opinion on the measure.Mr. Parnell
 said, the speech alluded to, bore on the measure only as it related to Ireland.Mr. Parnell
 urged, as a principal reason for postponing the report, that if brought up now, it would certainly create a debate, and probably a very long one, which, at so late an hour, would be highly improper. He should therefore, move, "That the House do now adjourn."Sir J. Newport
 opposed the Bill, and asked why the right hon. gentleman had deviated from the former proceeding of charging the annuity to the Princesses on the hereditary revenue, for the purpose of charging it on the consolidated fund.Sir J. Newport
.—I maintain that the Petition has been smuggled about for signatures in" a clandestine, underhand manner. Not one-third of those who had signed it, knew any thing of its contents. I have not read it; but from the cowardly way in which it was handed about, I do not believe it contains the names of one hundredth part of the Protestant property of Ireland. It is easy for members to make assertions of matters of which they are totally ignorant. I can speak positively as to the north of Ireland, and from thence the signatures, I know, were very insignificant, those from the misguided men of the county of Down excepted.Dr. Duigenan
484483482, knight of Kerry, rose and said:—Sir; I am charged with the Petition which is to be present ed to this House from the persons whose names are signed thereto, being Protestant land-owners in Ireland. Some circumstances that have occurred regarding it, render it necessary that I should trouble the House with a few words. I would first take the liberty of slating why it has devolved upon so insignificant an individual as myself, to present one of the most important Petitions that can be brought under the consideration of parliament. It may be known that the member for Dublin, at whose suggestion this Petition was first set on foot, was immediately afterwards obliged to leave Ireland, and it devolved upon me to undertake the task he reluctantly resigned, and to be instrumental in its progress, and I am consequently in possession of circumstances important to be known, previous to the approaching discussion of the Catholic Question. The Petition is from the Protestant proprietors of Ireland, and is perfectly unprecedented not only in amount of property, belonging to individuals, who have annexed their names at any former time to a Petition on this subject, but it is the first instance of any general application on the part of the Protestants of Ireland on behalf of their Catholic fellow-subjects. To establish the importance of the Petition, it is sufficient for me to state what, without an approach to exaggeration, I may confidently assert, that it expresses the sentiments of a decided majority of the Protestant proprietors
484483482Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
486.—The right hon. gentleman having called on me, I name, without hesitation, the county to which I alluded, it is Carlow. I have no doubt of the fact, and I shall restate it. The nomination of sheriff had been promised to a gentleman of large fortune in that county: he had announced the promise to his friend, who took measures preparatory to his appointment, quite notorious in the county. But, on the former signing the Petition, the Castle immediately superseded the first engagement, and named the second on the list. That gentleman replied, that as he, also, had signed the Protestant Petition, government would probably consider him an unfit sheriff, and begged to decline. Government refused; but on learning that the sheriff would, if a requisition was made to him, call a county meeting on the subject, they acquiesced in his resignation; and a third person was appointed. I should be glad that an enquiry were made into these facts.486Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
491490489.—Sir; the insinuation that the Protestants" of Ireland are unfriendly to the Catholic claims, is as un-candid, as from the Petition now presented, it appears to be wholly unfounded; and one cannot but be anxious to learn the circumstances, from which gentlemen consider that they are justified in arguing to this effect. I should be glad to know whether, from any thing lately passed in Ireland, it is fair or just, by mere conjecture and assertion in debate, to try to do away the impression which this Petition in behalf of the Roman Catholic claims, is so well calculated to produce, not only in the House, but throughout the empire. I admit, with shame and regret, that there may exist a disposition, nay, perhaps, an ardent wish, in certain quarters, to excite such an hostility; but I know not any language sufficiently strong, with which to reprobate such an object; and be it remembered, that the attempt to deny the importance of this Petition is made on a question, involving the happiness and welfare of several millions of subjects. Acquainted as I am with the history and progress of these claims, nothing can surprise me. After every foul and false charge, every serious and every futile objection, had been over and over again made and repeated, Parliament were at length gravely assured, that even the Catholics did not desire emancipation; but when this impudent and foolish assertion was about to be denied by the united Catholic voice, the refutation was sought to be proved by most unconstitutional attempts to silence that voice. And now that the Protestants of Ireland, who, for a long season, had been cruelly hallooed against the Catholics, had discovered the artifice,
491490489Mr. Hutchinson
492 said, I am indifferent to which of the strange and contradictory accusations made by the learned doctor he adheres, because they are equally and totally unfounded. He has stated at one moment "that the Petition was carried about in an indecent canvas for signatures;" and in the next, "that it was concealed in a dark room where no one could either read its contents or see the names signed to it." The absurdity of these inconsistent charges is a sufficient refutation of them.492Mr. Mauricc Fitzgerald
493.—I maintain that the Petition was smuggled about in a clandestine
493Dr. Duigenan
.—The right hon. doctor alluded to me and my family, as having been particularly concerned in promoting this Petition, and as if the Petition had succeded only by the agency of some of my connections. Certainly, Sir, the head of my family has signed his name first to the Petition, and although formerly in the separate state of Ireland, he was hostile to the Catholic claims, he has changed his opinion with the change of circumstances, and very much to his honour, has candidly avowed that change. He is totally unfounded in supposing that this Petition has been produced by any such agency or management. It has been most respectably signed, by persons of the utmost independence and above any influence.Mr. Robert La Touche
494 said, that a great proportion of the Protestants of Limerick was not favourable to Catholic Emancipation.494Colonel Vercker
 took a short view of the mischievous effects which had ever been experienced in all ages, and in all countries, by the substitution of a paper currency for the legal coin of the realm. He particularly instanced the consequences of this substitution in the American war, in Austria, and in France; and, drawing deductions from these examples, he strongly contended that the present Bill was highly impolitic, and likely to prove highly detrimental to the interests and welfare of the country.Mr. Taylor
499l498 expressed his surprise, that so many gentlemen who had expressed their opinions upon this Bill, should set out by declaring their disapprobation of its principle, and yet afterwards find some qualifying circumstance which might induce them not to withhold their assent. Such had been the tenour of the speech of the hon. gentleman who had spoken last. He perfectly agreed with the hon. gentleman who spoke first in the evening, that the Bill went to create crimes which did not offend against any moral duty, it would be utterly impossible to prevent the exchange of gold for notes at a discount. In a political point of view, so far from being considered an offence, he thought such a traffic was very desirable in the present stale of scarcity, as by there being a gold price and a paper price for things, the specie, if any remained, would be the more likely to continue in the country. The present Bill, however, only went to increase the temptation to the crime wished to be guarded against, and after it passed, guineas would be still less in circulation than ever. It was well known, that the traders in guineas in Dublin, after the passing of lord Stanhope's Bill, became more anxious in their traffic than ever, and he had no doubt the system would now be carried to a still greater extent. From the report on the table of the House, relative to the number of Bank notes discovered to be forgeries by the Bank, it appeared that for fourteen years previous to the suspension of cash payments, there had been but four cases of prosecution for forgery; whereas in the fourteen years subsequent
499l498Lord Folkestone
.—In any thing I said against the Roman Catholics of Ireland in any former debate, I said against the whole body, and not against those of Waterford, or any other corner of Ireland; therefore I cannot see why the right hon. baronet should have made any allusion to me. He reminds me of Harlequin in the pantomime, building up a castle of pasteboard that he might knock it down with his wand of lath; besides, it would have been more proper if the hon. gentleman reserved the eloquence of which we hear so much every night, when he shall have plenty of opportunities to answer my opinions about the Roman Catholic sect.Dr. Duigenan
 thought it but fair that the Irish tenantry should have as much protection as the English.Mr. M'Naghten
, at considerable length, opposed the general principle of the Bill. The invariable effect of legislative interference was to increase, rather than diminish the evil. The root of the evil, the excessive issue of Bank notes, ought to be struck at. The rate of exchange was now, in consequence of the measures taken by government, lower than at the time the Bullion Committee sat. He remarked upon the extraordinary coincidence, that the rise in the price of bullion exactly kept pace with the augmented issue of notes from Threadneedle-street.Mr. Homer
l proposed a clause to compel the Bank to employ the surplus, above 10lMr. Taylor
 proposed what he termed a valuable amendment, taking away from the landlord the right of ejectment after a tender of Bank notes in payment of his rent by the tenant. It was warmly opposed by Messrs. Horner, Brougham, and others, on the ground that it was a most important alteration, depriving the landlord of his only remaining remedy, and making Bank notes to all intents and purposes legal tender. The Chancellor of the Exchequer and Mr. Simeon maintained a contrary position, insisting that nothing new in principle was suggested, and indeed that the alteration had been in contemplation from the commencement. The amendment was passed without a division; the Report was brought up, received, agreed to, and the Bill ordered to be read a third time to-morrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l proposed a clause to confine the dividend of profits to the proprietors of the Bank of England to 10lLord A. Hamilton
 proposed a clause to limit the issue of Bank notes, which was likewise negatived.—The Bill was then recommitted.Mr. Johnstone
 spoke against the Report being brought up. He said the Bill would be destructive of public credit; and the only difference between us and foreign nations was, that they bounded into bankruptcy in three or four years, while we should be longer in doing so; but say what ministers would, it must come to the same end at last.Mr. Johnstone
.—I do believe that three fourths of the Protestants of Belfast are favourable to Catholic claims. As I represent a Northern city, (Carrickfergus) I know that several signatures could have been obtained, if the necessary form of a petition had been prepared; and the member for Belfast is a subscriber to the Petition.Mr. Craig
 opposed the amendment.Mr. Simeon
 expressed his total disapprobation of the principle of the Bill, inasmuch as it would create an inducement to give more for coin than its nominal or legal value, thereby creating a crime which could not be prevented by any legislative act.Mr. Pole Carew
 called the right hon. baronet to order, conceiving it to be irregular to allude to former discussions.Mr. Pole Carew
481480479 Mr. Speaker; I hold in my hand a Petition from a most respectable, most loyal, and, if honourable ancestry be an object of consideration, a very illustrious portion of his Majesty's subject.—I mean the Roman Catholics of England, who have been pleased to express a wish, that I should be the bearer of their claims to this House. It must be to them, as well as to you. Sir, and to the House, a melancholy recollection, that two years ago these claims were in the hands of one, who bad the means of doing ample justice to any cause, however great and momentous its importance.481480479Mr. Elliot.
485.—Sir; after what has fallen from the right hon. gentleman, I cannot avoid offering a few observations to the House. As the right hon. gentleman has Stated that the Petition was signed by a great majority of the Protestants of Ireland, I am not disposed to dispute the assertion; but I am much surprised, notwithstanding; and it is the first time I have ever heard, that the majority of resident Protestants in Ireland were supposed to be favourable to the claims of the Catholics. I know, indeed, that great pains has been taken to promote signatures; but I can assure the right hon. gentleman, that if the zeal of the Protestants had been equally excited for a different purpose. Petitions of a very different description would be sent in from a very numerous body of the Protestants of Ireland. The statement, however, which called me up was, that the government of Ireland had interfered to obstruct the success of the Petition, and particularly, that they would not appoint a sheriff who was known to have signed the Petition. I happened to be in Ireland at the period when the idea of the Petition was first suggested at a dinner given to the friends of religious liberty in Dublin, last December, but I never heard till now of the interference of government to oppose the progress of such a Petition. On the contrary, their object throughout has been to allow the Catholics to proceed by Petition as long as they thought proper to confine themselves to that constitutional course of proceeding and also not to interfere with the Protestants in any steps they might take in favour of the Catholics, With regard to
485Mr. Wellesley Pole
.—I protest I know nothing of the circumstance of the sheriff of Carlow.Mr. W Pole
.—I deny that government interfered either one way or the other. It will be my duty to present tomorrow a Petition from the Catholics of the county and city of Londonderry, a great body of the inhabitants of which is against Catholic Emancipation.Sir George Hill
.—I did not assert that a challenge had been thrown out to the Protestants with respect to the observations of the hon. gentleman, I can assure him that I shall always express my sentiments, whether he liked them or not; and further, that I will controvert any observation of the hon. gentleman, when I feel it necessary to do so.Sir George Hill
488487.—The right hon. and learned doctor has stated to the House not only a correct opinion, "that it is exceedingly easy for members to make assertions of matters, of which they are wholly ignorant," but he has likewise afforded the strongest possible illustration of it in his his own speech; he having told the House in the first sentence, that he never had read or seen the Petition. The assertion, therefore, of the learned doctor, "that this Petition does not speak the sense of the majority of the Protestants of Ireland," cannot have any weight, when placed in opposition to that of the right hon. gentleman who has presented it, and who has had every opportunity of knowing the true purport of it, and on whose veracity the most implicit reliance may be placed.488487Mr. Parnell
.—I contend that I have not been out of order, as the right hon. doctor had published his speech, and sent it into general circulation, which made it public property, and of course subject to comment; especially as the Catholics of Ireland generally, and my constituents in particular, most justly complained of the unfounded, calumnious assertions contained in that publication.Sir J. Newport
495l. I have the honour of presenting to the House the Petition of the Roman Catholics of the county and city of Waterford, from a very numerous, opulent, and respectable body of his Majesty's subjects, praying to be restored to the full participation in the privileges of the constitution with their Protestant fellow subjects. Possessed of large landed and monied property, feeling their best interests intimately connected with the welfare of the state, they claim from the justice of this House a candid and dispassionate consideration of their Petition. They pray that at a crisis of unexampled danger to the empire, their efforts in its defence may not be impeded by unjust restrictions; that their tried loyalty may not be sullied by unmerited degradation; that no bar of separation may remain to alienate them from their native country, but that sharing in her dangers, they may share in her honours also.495lSir John Newport
 deprecated the interference of the legislature in cases of this kind; as it only afforded to the ministers of the day a temporary relief from their embarrassments, and went to subvert all principles of political economy.Sir John Newport
497ipse dixit496 contended, that if this Bill passed into a law, it would completely do away the sacred contracts between landlords and tenants. He could see no necessity whatever for such a measure,
497ipse dixit496Sir Thomas Turton
 knight of Kerry, said that from the beginning of the present alarm respecting a scarcity of pro" visions in Ireland, he had called the attention of government to that subject, and had requested of them to quiet the fears of the people, and to take the necessary steps to prevent the impending evil. The right hon. Secretary of State for Ireland, had, however, been deceived by false statements, and had asserted to the House that the scarcity was only local; and that enough of grain existed in Ireland, not only for the supply of that country, but also to relieve the wants of England, and to afford enough for distillation from corn. Notwithstanding those assertions, and notwithstanding the improved state of the agriculture in Ireland, which surpassed in so short a time whatever the most sanguine expectation could have anticipated, still it was too well proved that a scarcity existed at the present moment. He thought, in consequence, that the readiest method of affording relief to the population of Ireland, was to put a stop to the distillation from grain, which consumed fifty thousand quarters a week.—The right hon. gentleman concluded by moving, "That an humble Address should presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, stating, that it appeared necessary to the House, in order to obtain a necessary supply of food for the poor of Ireland, that the distillation from grain should be stopped, and praying his Royal Highness to give directions for such measures as would speedily effect that desirable object."Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald,
 did not think it would be safe to allow so long a period for the distillers to work off that part of their stock which was on hand, and which could not be applied to human food. No longer time should be allowed than was actually necessary for the passing of the measure. From the information he had received from undoubted authority, the state of the country was most alarming. This was a fact which could not be disguised; and those who had informed the right hon. gentleman that the contrary was the case, were induced so to do, merely from interested motives, and with the intention of deluding and misleading him.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he had just arrived from Limerick, and that there was no scarcity dreaded in that part of the country, as potatoes never were more cheap or more abundant.Mr. O'Dell
 agreed that every measure ought to be taken to prevent the consumption of grain, and for the support of the population of the country; at the same time, the House ought to be cautious how they injured so respectable a class of people as the distillers of Ireland, more than was necessary. A clause could easily be introduced, to allow them to make use of such grain as was in their possession, and so prepared as not to be fit for any other use.Mr. Hutchinson
 observed, that it was utterly impossible for the distillers to work off their stock on hand in a less time than that proposed by the right hon. gentleman. They could not take any improper advantage, or make any new purchases by such an arrangement.Mr. Shaw
 declared his approbation of the amendment, and conceived that no more time was proposed to be allowed to the distillers than was actually necessary to work off their present stock.Mr. Stewart
715714713712711710709 said, he had listened with great attention to the speech which the right hon. gentleman had just delivered, and he had some difficulty in persuading himself that it was spoken by the same gentleman, who about a month ago had favoured the House with another speech, in which he had taken a completely different view of every part of this subject. The right hon. gentleman, indeed, seemed completely to have forgotten the greater part of the opinions which he had advanced, and the arguments which he himself had urged at the period to which he alluded. The right hon. gentleman had said, that when he addressed the House a month ago upon the subject of the high price of provisions in Ireland, he had advised the immediate stopping of the distilleries, in consequence of the scarcity
715714713712711710709Mr. Wellesley Pole
 felt considerable doubt, whether, even supposing there was a scarcity, the stoppage of the distilleries would have any good effect.Mr. Parnell
 said, the delay proposed by the right hon. gentleman would only tend to keep out of the market that grain which was absolutely necessary for immediate consumption. Any such delay, therefore, was strongly to be deprecated.Sir J. Newport
722 on presenting the Petition from the Catholics of Londonderry, said; "It is my duty to present to this House a Petition from the Roman Catholics of the city and liberties of Londonderry, and I beg leave to take this opportunity of correcting a misstatement which has appeared in the public prints of yesterday, namely, that I had declared it to be my intention to present a Petition against the Roman Catholic claims. On the contrary, I said I had received a Roman Catholic
722Sir George Hill,
762761760759758757756755754753752751vice versa750749748747746745—Sir, in rising to address the House, I beg to premise to what I am about to say, that I do so for the purpose of opposing this motion, which has been brought forward with so much vehemence. And that I shall be able to shew that the House will depart from its duty if they venture to entertain this question.762761760759758757756755754753752751vice versa750749748747746745Doctor Duigenan.
826825824823822821onus probandi820819818817816815814813812811810809808—Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman who has just sat down, has informed us, that this important question is reduced within a very narrow compass; I did therefore expect, that he would have confined his observations within the limits that he himself had pointed out, and that he would not have expatiated as he has done in the wide field of theological discussion. He has informed us that some of those outposts which in arguing this question, gentlemen had formerly been so fond of defending, have long since been abandoned, and that the supporters of the Catholic claims deserting their untenable positions, must now descend into the plain and contend with their opponents on the narrower basis of political expediency. I am ready to accept the challenge, to meet him in the combat on his own terms, and to consider this as a political question.826825824823822821onus probandi820819818817816815814813812811810809808Lord Binning.
 said, that the motion went simply to enquire into the propriety of removing restrictions; and it should therefore have his support.Colonel Lemon
845844843842—Mr. Speaker, I should not have presumed to offer myself to your notice, in a debate which never fails to bring forward a display of the greatest talents in this House, but for one circumstance, which probably is peculiar to myself, that it has happened to me to be an eye-witness of the effect of the two different systems of policy, I mean a liberal and illiberal system, adopted at different periods, towards his Majesty's subjects of the Roman Catholic persuasion.845844843842Mr. Marryat.
853—Sir; in this stage of the debate, I am very unwilling to trespass long on the patience of the House; but I feel it my duty shortly to state the grounds of my vote. The right hon. gentleman has declared, that he can see no danger in conceding to the foreign nomination of the Catholic bishops merely in a spiritual sense, provided such securities can be given to us as shall be perfectly satisfacfactory that no danger from such nomination shall arise to our Protestant establishments. In that sentiment I should heartily concur; but I have heard no reason yet assigned to induce me to alter the opinion I entertained when this question was last discussed. We are not now more secure, as much as has been said about the present situation of the Pope, than we were at that time.853Mr. Bernard.
852851—Sir, at this advanced time of the night, I cannot think of troubling the House at any length, with a statement of the grounds upon which I shall give my vote against this motion. Sir, I think this is a question attended with so much difficulty and embarrassment on both sides, that it can be productive of no good consequences to either party in its discussion; and as I think that any change in the laws of Ireland as they affect Catholics, could not be attended with the benefits that, it is suggested, would arise, it would, in my opinion, be better to leave them alone. Besides, in the present political state of the country, it would not be politic to agitate a question which cannot
852851Mr. Charles Adams.
"And hunt for truth in Maudlin's learned grove.""Inter sylvas academi quærere verum."841bonâ fide840pro tanto839838837As drives the storm at any door I knock,"Sworn to no master, of no sect am I,"But ask not to what doctors I apply,836"Desire of greatness is a godlike sin."835834l833Thou stand'st unmov'd amidst a bursting world."Pit, box, and gallery in convulsions burl'd,Thou unconcern'd canst hear the mighty crack;"While peals of laughter, Codrus, round thee break,832831—I am sensible. Sir, that in rising at a time when so many other persons, much more worthy of audience than myself, are desirous of addressing themselves to the House, I may owe it, perhaps, some apology, for obtruding myself at all upon its attention. And, indeed, the subject of our present consideration has been so frequently and so fully discussed, so much argument has been employed upon if, and that argument has been urged with so much eloquence, that a person much more competent than myself might well abstain from the hopeless attempt of adding to it either novelty or interest. But at the same time it is a matter of such high importance, and respecting which opinions so various are entertained even by persons agreeing in their vole; and above all it is a topic which subjects those who think and act as I think and must act upon it, to so much calumny and misrepresentation, that I am desirous of offering a few observations to the House."And hunt for truth in Maudlin's learned grove.""Inter sylvas academi quærere verum."841bonâ fide840pro tanto839838837As drives the storm at any door I knock,"Sworn to no master, of no sect am I,"But ask not to what doctors I apply,836"Desire of greatness is a godlike sin."835834l833Thou stand'st unmov'd amidst a bursting world."Pit, box, and gallery in convulsions burl'd,Thou unconcern'd canst hear the mighty crack;"While peals of laughter, Codrus, round thee break,832831Mr. Vernon.
744743742741740l739738737l736735734733732731730729 rose and said:744743742741740l739738737l736735734733732731730729Mr. Grattan
807806805804803Believing nothing, or believing all.Succeeding times did equal folly call,To please the fools, and puzzle all the wise:Some truth there was, though dash'd and brew'd with lies,"The milk-white hind unspotted and unchanged."802801800799798per se797796—I should be as much overrating my own powers as undervaluing the time of this House, if I were to pretend to expatiate over that wide extent, or to wind through that intricate labyrinth of topics that have from time to time been discussed, as part of the present question; or if, after it has passed so repeatedly under discussion, and through the hands of such men, I could hope to set it in any new point of view. But happily for me (I may perhaps say happily for all who take part in it,) the field of argument lies before us contracted and retrenched, it has shrunk into a narrower basis, its boundaries have been defined, and its defenceless outposts abandoned. There are
807806805804803Believing nothing, or believing all.Succeeding times did equal folly call,To please the fools, and puzzle all the wise:Some truth there was, though dash'd and brew'd with lies,"The milk-white hind unspotted and unchanged."802801800799798per se797796Mr. W. Bankes.
*763—The sentiment expressed by the right hon. gentleman who has just sat down, are so much in opposition to my own, "hat I feel myself called upon to give some reply to them I can assure the House that I am disposed to trespass upon their patience as little as possible, considering the extent and importance of the subject, and that it is not my intention to produce, as heretofore, voluminous documents in support of my own opinions. My wish is principally to lead the attention of the House to that kind of investigation, which, in my apprehension, is best suited to reel those prejudices which may be considered, in no small degree, as hereditary, and which in the minds of but too many, will probably be aggravated by the statement of the right hon. gentleman:—my wish is also to endeavour to set the minds of others, as my own is, at rest, as to any dangerous consequences to be apprehended from further concessions to the petitioners, even to the full extent to which the argument of my right hon. friend who moved the question was disposed to carry them:—provided such measures of concomitant
*763Sir J. C. Hippisley.
830829828827—Sir, I am ready to admit that there is no question, which, from its immense importance, is more entitled to discussion than the present; nor is there any man more ready than I am to admit, that no individual should be called to an account before any human tribunal for his religious faith, nor excluded on account of that faith from civil privileges, unless there was something in his creed injurious to the interest and safety of the state, under which he lives; but I do not consider that any question of that kind is at all connected with the motion before you, and which I conceive purely a question for granting further extension of political power to the Catholics of Ireland, and the policy of such extension is the real question which we have to consider. It has been endeavoured to draw an argument in favour of this extension to the Catholics of Ireland, as if the question was connected with our present contest for the defence of the Catholics upon the continent. But, Sir, I think h is our object to fight the battles of those oppressed nations upon the continent, independent of any question about their religion. Our object is to maintain the independence of those nations, and of Europe, on a field which affords us the opportunity of contending with better effect against the enemy; and this, Sir, I conceive, is not fighting the cause of the Catholic religion, but the cause of the rights and freedom of those nations, with whom we are in alliance,
830829828827Mr. Owen.
850849848847846—Sir, I should not at this late hour of the night have troubled the
850849848847846Lord Milton.
881880onus probandi879878—Sir; not having had an opportunity before now of stating my opinion upon this subject, I take the liberty of rising now, professing ray intention, sincerely, not to occupy the attention of the House for any considerable length of time. The subject has been so frequently discussed, and the arguments on this side of the House so ably and eloquently urged, that I have not the vanity to think I can give any novel feature to the debate. And therefore, what I shall say in delivering my sentiments, will be merely to justify me to myself, with the consciousness of having done my duty.881880onus probandi879878Right Honourable Charles P. Yorke.
931in toto930929928927926925924923lsl922921920919918ll917916915914913This Work has lately been re-published in Dublin.***912911*From the Original Edition, printed for J. Hatchard, Piccadilly..—Sir; Many of the gentlemen who have spoken in this debate, particularly the right hon. gentleman who introduced the question, and the hon. baronet who has entered so much at large into the vindication of the tenets of the Roman Catholics, appear to me to take for granted that there is in the Ro-man Catholic religion some general abstract unvarying character, the same in all times and in all places, and that it is quite sufficient for our purpose to investigate that character, in order to determine whether it is, or is not inconsistent with the exercise of the civil powers of our constitution.931in toto930929928927926925924923lsl922921920919918ll917916915914913This Work has lately been re-published in Dublin.***912911*From the Original Edition, printed for J. Hatchard, Piccadilly.Mr. J. Leslie Foster*
934933932.—Sir; under the peculiar circumstances of the present question, I rise to trespass as shortly as possible upon the attention of the House. I find it impossible to content myself with a silent vote; as if I did, it is more than
934933932Mr. Shaw of Dublin
935.—Sir; after the very able and eloquent manner in which the affirmative side of this question has been supported, I shall feel it necessary to trespass but very shortly on the attention of the House; and in the first place. Sir, I can bear my testimony to the high respectability of a great portion of those persons whose names are signed to the Irish Protestant Petition in favour of their Catholic fellow subjects. The county which I have the honour to represent, and in which the great body of property is in the hands of Protestants, the descendants of old settlers, and who have been for a long period considered as enemies to the Roman Catholic religion, was almost unanimous in favour of the Catholic claims, and has afforded a great number of the signatures to the Petition presented to this House, and to another which was presented to the Prince Regent. The hon. gentleman (Mr. L. Foster) who has recently addressed you, has given in my mind a most extraordinary reason for not agreeing to the motion. He has laid great stress upon the bigotted doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church; and he has complained also of the mode of education adopted at the college of Maynooth. Now Sir, these are assertions which I can conceive
935Colonel Dillon
943942941940939938937936—Sir; on every question that has been brought before the House lending to remove the restrictions against the Catholics of Ireland, since I have had the honour of a seat in parliament, I have always given my vote in its favour; but I have never till now ventured to obtrude myself upon the House, to state the grounds of my vote. I have thought it my duly on all former occasions to give way to other gentlemen, whose sentiments I felt it was much more important should be known than mine. I am however desirous of stating for once as shortly as I can, the motives which have actuated me in the conduct which I have hitherto pursued; and I am the more desirous of doing it, because I am sensible, that upon this question more than upon any other which has come under the consideration of parliament, no person can take part on the side upon which I shall give my vole this night, without being liable to have his motives misrepresented, and his conduct treated in the most uncandid manner. When we have seen that persons of high distinction in the country, from no other cause than the part they have taken on this subject, have had it openly stated of them in the public newspapers, that they had formally renounced their religion and embraced the Catholic faith;—when such representations have been made, and confidently given out to a credulous public, by persons who are constantly paying their court, in the basest and most abject manner, to those who are at the head of the government; when I say such stratagems are resorted to against persons of the highest distinction, and whose whole lives may be said to be spent in the view of the public, I can hardly flatter myself that one comparatively so obscure as myself will
943942941940939938937936Sir Samuel Romilly.
947946945944 was the established religion of the country; it might well be supposed disaffected to its new Protestant monarch; its ancient attachment to Austria, and its local situation between the Austrian and the Prussian dominions, might well render the power of the Catholics formidable. The king of Prussia was not even acknowledged at this time by the Pope as king, he was styled at Rome only marquis of Branden-burgh, and yet what under all these circumstances was the conduct of that great monarch towards Silesia? did he attempt to persecute or destroy any of his Roman Catholic subjects? Did he think it politic to shackle, or deprive them of any of those privileges which they had theretofore enjoyed? Did he destroy any Catholic universities? Did he attempt to remove any Catholic judges? Or did he attempt to deprive any Catholic bishop of his spiritual authority? No: That magnanimous prince was too wise a man, and when that policy was advised by some of his ministers, he rejected it with disdain, and pursued that policy which tended so much to add lustre and greatness to the crown he wore. Undoubtedly he was a man of no religious scruples. (Hear, hear!—Laugh at the ministerial side of the House.) Certainly, I admit that he was wholly indifferent about religion, but is this to be considered then as a question of religious difference? Will gentlemen put it on that footing? If they will own that their aversion to the Catholics is because they are of a different religion from themselves, if it is to their extreme orthodoxy that they oppose the Catholic claims, I have nothing to say more: but I understood that this was a mere question of policy, and so considering it, a more striking and instructive example than this can hardly be produced. The supposed danger of leaving political power in the hands of those who were of a different religion from the monarch was thought so great, that it is said to have been proposed to Frederic, that he should become himself a Catholic. If such a proposal was made he rejected it,
947946945944The Catholic religion
—Mr. Speaker; whatever that hon. member can say, shall not rouse me to the use of any unparliamentary language. Where the hon. member got his information respecting me, I cannot possible imagine; but who ever told him that I come here retained for the Dissenters, told him a gross falshood. As to my being at the head of the dissenting body, and my having smallowed the test which he mentions, the hon. gentleman, as he takes so much interest respecting me, will be glad, perhaps, to hear, that I was educated in the Established Church; that I have always attended places of religious worship according to the rites of the Established Church; and that I do not recollect that I have ever been even out of curiosity in a Dissenting meeting house.Sir Samuel Romilly
955954953onus probandi952.—Though as an advocate for the equalization of the Catholics in every political right with their fellow subjects, I must feel highly gratified in general by the turn this debate has taken, there have been expressions in the warmth of discussion I could have wished omitted. Much censure and some bard terms have been bestowed on the opposers
955954953onus probandi952Mr. Herbert of Kerry
958957956.—Sir; it is with great reluctance I rise to address the House, but I can assure gentlemen that I shall endeavour to trouble them with as few observations, as I think the nature of the question and the state of the case will permit me to do.958957956The Chancellor of the Exchequer
959.—The right hon. gentleman seems not yet to have formed any opinion of his own upon the subject, as to what his course will be: and the House must surely feel some surprise that a proposition of so much importance is not only to be put to them in the manner and under the circumstances that I have described, without knowing whether we are to go into a select or a general committee; but that it is not decided in the minds even
959The Chancellor of the Exchequer
964963962961960.—Sir, I rather think that I might venture to say, that the time is not yet come, in which the House can with any degree of propriety adopt the resolution now proposed.964963962961960The Chancellor of the Exchequer
969968967966965 then, in my opinion, lies upon those who want the alteration, to prove, that the alteration might take place without danger. That there is some danger, even the avowed supporters of the measure are ready to allow; and, what is rather extraordinary, those very apprehensions come from a quarter that one would have least expected. However, coming from the quarter they do, they come with the greatest weight and authority; and the more so as they are espoused by all those who support the question.969968967966965Sir, the Onus
101010091008100710061005.—Sir, I would not willingly trouble the House with any observations of mine on this question, nor should I have opened my lips to night, if the circumstances of my private life in Ireland, had not become matter of observation touching this subject, on the part of the hon. gentleman who spoke last.101010091008100710061005Lord Castlereagh
10121011 Sir; I do not mean to detain the Home long, but in consequence of something which fell from the noble lord, it is necessary I should for a few moments request your indulgence.10121011Right Hon. George Ponsonby.
. Sir, I deny that what I said, was, that those who made the communication in Ireland acted unconstitutionally; I said, they might have acted hastily and indiscreetly, and without any authority; not that they actually had done so. But I do hold, that it is unconstitutional to make allusions to the conduct or opinions of his royal highness the Prince of Wales, previous to his accession to the sovereign power of this country, with a view to call in question any conduct he might think fit to adopt, after his virtual accession to the throne. I stand by this principle, and I shall abide by it; and now I trust the right hon. gentleman will feel the necessity of some explanation on the manner in which he has been pleased to use the word 'false.'Lord Castlereagh
 The noble lord seems to me, with great submission, to have altered very much in his explanation what he said at first.—(A cry of No, no.)Mr. Ponsonby.
 I use the word false in its parliamentary sense, not offensively as to the noble lord's personal veracity. But however I will now repeat what I said before, that the assertion of rash indiscretion, and improper conduct in those who made the communication to the Catholics, is untrue, come it from what quarter it may.Mr. Ponsonby,
 I am satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. gentleman, that the words he used were not personally applied to me, otherwise than in a parliamentary way.Lord Castlereagh.
1013 Mr. Speaker; after the interruption that has been given to the course of this debate, and still more after the extraordinary misrepresentations which we have heard of the nature of the motion before us, I feel it necessary to recall the attention of the House to the real terms of the question in your hand; and with that view, Sir, I beg that you will be so
1013Mr. Canning.
 I was at the time lord chancellor of Ireland, and the noble duke lord lieutenant.Mr. Ponsonhy.
. Then, Sir, I can only say, that under those circumstances, such a communication was, in my opinion, to say the best of it, a piece of high indiscretion. But, however, convinced as I am of the necessity of going into the proposed enquiry without delay, I shall give my vote for the motion.Mr. Stuart Wortlty
 then said, that the words of the right hon. gentleman certainly called for explanation.The Speaker
910909908907éléve906905904903902901900899898897896895894893A. B,892891 Sir; In rising to support the motion of my right hon friend below me (Mr. Grattan) I differ with extreme reluctance from a right hon. and learned judge, the representative of the University of Oxford (sir W. Scott) for
910909908907éléve906905904903902901900899898897896895894893A. B,892891Mr. Brougham.
.—In the first wording of my motion, I thought, in calling for a select committee, I was complying with the rules and orders of the House. Upon further consideration, however, I find that the motion should be for a committee of the whole House.Mr. Grattan
. The right hon. gentleman is informed that it may be matter for subsequent consideration, whether it is to be a select committee, or a committee of the House at large.Mr. Grattan
 waved his right of replying, observing, that the right hon. gentleman who had lately sat down, (Mr. Canning) had so ably, and so eloquently and swered every argument against the motion, that he should hurt the cause, was he to add another word to his eloquent oration.Mr. Grattan
 (amidst the general cry of Question, question.)—Sir, I rise only for one moment, to ask a question of the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Ponsonby), whether at the time he made his communication to the Catholics of Ireland, be was himself lord chancellor of Ireland, and the duke of Bedford lord lieutenant.Mr. Stuart Wortley
.—I am much obliged to the hon. and learned baronet for his explanation; and I cannot but compliment him on the extraordinary feeling which he has shewn on this occasion.Mr. Fuller
.—Mr. Speaker, the speech of the hon. member was the most extraordinary I ever heard in the course of my life. I was astonished to hear him, who is at the head of the Dissenters of this country, and who I have been informed is retained for them, speak in the way he has done. I should like to know, however, from the hon. member how he came to swallow the test oath before he came amongst us?—(Cries of Order! Order! from the Chair, and from the House.)Mr. Fuller
10041003100210011000999998997996995And plough the winter wave, and reap despair!Are hammered to the galling oar for life,There beings deathless as their haughty lordHere plunged in mines, forget a sun was made.God's Image disinherited of Day994"Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood.""Some mule inglorious Milton here may rest,"The little tyrant of his fields withstood,"Some village Hampden, that with dauntless breast,.993"——high born Heel's harp."992991990989988987986ad captandum985.—Sir; notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, I feel it impossible to give my vote upon this question without making a few observations on some of the extraordinary arguments which we have heard from our opponents, in resistance to the motion of my right hon. friend; and therefore I claim the indulgence of the House, promising to trespass upon their attention as briefly as possible.10041003100210011000999998997996995And plough the winter wave, and reap despair!Are hammered to the galling oar for life,There beings deathless as their haughty lordHere plunged in mines, forget a sun was made.God's Image disinherited of Day994"Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood.""Some mule inglorious Milton here may rest,"The little tyrant of his fields withstood,"Some village Hampden, that with dauntless breast,.993"——high born Heel's harp."992991990989988987986ad captandum985Mr. Whitbread
876875874873872871870869868867.—Sir, no person who has not the ties of filial piety and attachment to it, can hold the University of Oxford in higher veneration than I do; nor can any one more readily subscribe to the opinions which my right hon. and learned friend has claimed for that great and ancient seminary, in its selection of its representatives. In one point of view, perhaps, the very Petition on the table may be considered as creditable to it, because it marks the gradual conquest which that learned body is making over iys own prejudices. On former occasions it has been unanimous: in the present instance, by the acknowledgment of my right hon. and learned friend, it has been much divided in its opinion. It has also been very-tardy with its Petition; and even with this delay, time has scarcely been given for the collection of the sentiments of the distant members of the University. All this is good. It shews the march and progress of truth and reason on this great cause. In the few observations with which I mean to trouble the House, on this most momentous topic, I must beg to be understood as disclaiming all notion of resting the merits of the question on any ground of abstract right. Religious toleration is, in my view of the subject, (certainly at least so far as it has reference to qualifications for civil offices,) a matter of moral and political prudence. If the laws alluded to are necessary for the security of the state, no doubt they ought to be retained, perhaps strengthened and confirmed. But if on the contrary, the public-safety does not demand their continuance, and if (as I certainly think) their repeal
876875874873872871870869868867Right Hon. W. Elliot
951950949"Nam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet."948,—Sir; at this late hour I shall detain the House but for a very few minutes, for not being myself a member of the Established Church, I can scarcely expect to be heard on this question without some distrust.951950949"Nam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet."948Mr. William Smith
866865864863862861 rose and said:—Sir, before I proceed to the few observations which I think it necessary to offer upon the subject now before you, I feel it right, in the first place, to take notice of soma observations which fell in the course of last night's debate, from an hon. gentleman on the other side of the House, touching a Petition which I had the honour to present from the University of Oxford, against the claims of his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects. But however brilliant the talents displayed by that hon. gentleman in the sarcasms which he was pleased to cast upon the proceedings of that University on this occasion, it must be confessed that in those sarcasms he has not displayed much of filial affection for the place of his education. The attack was most undeserved; and I beg leave to
866865864863862861Sir William Scott
106210611060 bore witness to the deference due to the quarter to which the hon. general was indebted for his intelligence, and stated that he had himself received letters corroborating the facts formerly brought before the House.106210611060Mr. Wharton
1063 said, that he felt it incumbent upon him to give the most positive contradiction to one paragraph in the Petition which referred immediately to himself, and which was founded on the grossest misrepresentation. It referred to a meeting between him and a committee of gentlemen from Birmingham, at which his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was present, and the member for the county of Warwick. Instead of using any language which could lead
1063Mr. Rose
1064.—I assert again that I have no recollection of having used such an expression, and I am certain that it was not addressed to any of the gentlemen who waited upon me. I do not undertake to deny it positively; it might have been said by me. All I can undertake to state positively is, that no such phrase was used by me to the deputation generally; but whether I said it to any individual I will not pretend to determine. I deny too that if I used it, it proceeded from any want
1064Mr. Rose
 said, that a few days afterwards he met some of the gentlemen of the deputation, who repeated to him the words referred to in the Petition, and certainly it was considered by them as shewing a great degree of insensibility on the part of the right hon. gentleman.Lord Stanley
1066 reprobated the discussion of a question now which might be fully debated at its proper time to-morrow. This at least was neither a usual nor a convenient way of dispatching the business of parliament. He felt himself called upon to say a few words with regard to the expression so much talked of, which was said to have dropped from his right hon. friend. He never was more
1066The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated, that he had not the most faint remembrance of having employed the language attributed to him. All he could say was, that in his mind there was nothing at all disrespectful to the gentlemen, or unfeeling to the individuals they represented. He was sorry not to see the hon. member for Warwickshire in his place, who would be able to state his recollection of the transaction. He was happy that the the present opportunity had been afforded him of disclaiming that which had been most unjustly attributed to him, viz. an insensibility to the complaints that had been urged. He thought the case of the manufacturers of Birmingham entitled to peculiar attention.Mr. Rose
 felt convinced that the expressions had been used; but from the manner in which the right hon. gentleman received those who waited upon him on business, he was convinced that there was no intention to insult or offend. He expressed his hope that the grievous complaints of the numerous petitioners, who had resorted to the House for redress, would be most seriously considered.Mr. Baring
 objected to the words, as containing a comment on the system government intended to pursue with regard to the Orders in Council.Lord Millon
1068 observed, that to-morrow would be the more fit time for the explanation required.1068Mr. Rose
 did not see there was even a pretence laid before the House for the absence of the right hon. member. He should move. That he be taken into the custody of the Serjeant at Arms.Sir W. W. Wynn
 opposed the amendment. The right hon. member had appeared in his place almost every day until the approach of the Catholic question.Mr. Herbert
 rose to move the Thanks of the House to the earl of Wellington, and the army under his command——The Chancellor of the Exchequer
107310721071 then spoke to the following effect:—Sir, from the opportunity which on former occasions I have had of collecting the sentiments of the House on the course of proceeding with respect to questions similar to that which I am about to submit to their consideration, I agree with you. Sir, that the House will always be disposed to give to them an undoubted priority. It gratifies me, however, to be enabled to assure the noble lord, that in my view of the present subject, it will not be necessary for me to detain the House at any considerable length; anticipating as I do, the unanimous concurrence of all who hear me, in the motion with which I shall have the honour to conclude. Sir, I have so frequently, during the short period of the last eighteen months, had the happiness to submit to this House a motion similar to the present, that I am justified, from my experience on those occasions, in confidently expecting that not a single dissenting voice will be raised against my present proposition. We may differ in opinion. Sir, on the general question of the manner in which the war on the peninsula has been conducted; we may even differ in opinion on the probable effect of the late or of any other splendid achievement of our brave troops—but it is impossible that we should differ in opinion on the able conduct of our general, and on the gallantry of our officers and men, with reference to the recent occurrrence, in which these qualities have been so successfully and so gloriously exhibited. The House will recollect that at no great distance of time antecedent to the late distinguished achievement, the capture of Ciudad Rodrigo took place. Immediately after that capture, lord Wellington meditated the direction of his forces toward" that fortress, the acquisition of which it is now our object to acknowledge. The arrangements for that purpose were made with great expedition by the noble and gallant lord during the time that he kept his head-quarters; and so completely were the enemy deceived by the celerity and the secrecy of those arrangements, that they were evidently unapprized of the intended movement until it was too late for
107310721071The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was a little apprehensive that the results in the south of Spain expected from the capture of Badajoz might not come to pass so easily as was expected.Colonel Dillon
 then moved, "That the Thanks of this House be given to lieut.-general sir William Carr Beresford, K. B., lieut.-gen. James Leith, lieut.-general Thomas Picton, major-gen. the hon. Charles Stewart, major-general the hon. Charles Colville, major-general Barnard ford Bowes, major-general Andrew Hay, major-general George Townshend Walker, and major-general James Kempt, and likewise to brigadier-general William Maundy Harvey, brigadier-general Champlemond, and brigadier-general Manley Power, of the Portuguese service, for their distinguished exertions during the recent siege of Badajoz, which was so gloriously terminated by the successful assault of that important fortress in the night of the 6th instant."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not rise for the purpose of disturbing the unanimity of the vote upon this occasion. He wished merely to remark, that a practice had been lately, since the battle of Talavera, adopted, of not publishing the list of killed and wounded officers sufficiently early after receiving the dispatches. He conceived it was only necessary to state this circumstance to have it redressed. The general opinion, he believed, was, that the publication of the Extraordinary Gazette was purposely postponed to a late hour, to prevent its being copied into the evening papers. However it might happen, in his opinion the list of killed and wounded officers should be immediately struck off, at least as soon after receiving the dispatch as possible, that those persons who had relations in the engagement might receive the earliest information of their fate. On the late occasion the Extraordinary Gazette was published at so late an hour that many persons could not send it by the post that evening.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said he would make every enquiry into the circumstance mentioned by the hon. and learned gentleman, It was, in his opinion, desirable that the lists of killed and wounded officers should be made out with all possible accuracy, which necessarily required some considerable time.Lord Castlereagh
connem observed, that the list was published only in one evening paper; the Pilot.connemSir. W. W. Wynn
connem next moved the Thanks of the House to the officers of the British and Portuguese forces, which was also carried connemThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
1077 said, in rising to move That the House did highly approve and acknowledge the zeal, bravery, discipline, and humanity displayed by the non-commissioned officers and soldiers of
1077The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that questions of thanks to our fleets or armies always were allowed to take precedence of every other business.The Speaker
 then put the question, and as the House was about to divide, Mr. Ward withdrew his amendment, and the original motion was carried in the affirmative.The Speaker
 was of opinion that this last exploit of lord Wellington had done great honour to himself and the British army. Under all the circumstances, he believed that no general in the universe but himself would have attempted the capture of Badajoz; and that no troops in the universe but British, would have succeeded in that attempt.General Tarleton
 observed, that the accounts he had obtained, and which he had communicated to parliament on a former occasion, in opposition to the allegations of the hon. gentleman, were derived from the most respectable authority.General Tarleton
 observed, that the Gazette was ill the hands of many persons in public offices so early as half past two and three o'clock: the public, however, had great difficulty in getting it at seven o'clock. Some unaccountable delay must have taken place in the publication.Mr. Giles
 urged the propriety of the motion.Mr. Eden
1067 observed, that the most convenient mode would be for the right hon. gentleman to state what he really did say. It undoubtedly was fair that the right hon. gentleman should have an opportunity of explaining the construction he put upon the words said to have been employed. A present the sense applied to the metaphor seemed to be that which it bore, without any perversion. It must be admitted, that it conveyed no very pleasant idea to the minds of the petition-
1067Mr. Tierney
 said, that the question was not whether the right hon. gent. was insensible to the miseries presented to his view, but whether he had employed the unfortunate expression referred to. He did not understand that the fact was denied that the right hon. gentleman had said that the two countries were in the situation of two men whose heads were in a bucket of water, and the struggle was, which of the two could remain longer in that situation without suffocation. This kind of metaphorical language might sufficiently express the nature of the mercantile contest produced by the Orders in Council, but it was rather unfortunate when addressed to those whose heads were under water, and suffering all the pains of strangulation.Mr. Tierney
1065 said, he held in his hand another Petition from a number of the inhabitants of Liverpool, who had signed it in the course of one hour; and had it not been necessary to send it off, in order that it might accompany the preceding Petition, it would have received a much greater number of signatures. The memorial of the present petitioners was not so much against the Orders in Council, as applicable to the expressions which they had heard ascribed to the right hon. gentleman opposite, (a laugh); and which, however ridiculous they might appear to some gentlemen, were yet calculated to produce any other sensations but those of levity and laughter in the minds of those to whom they were addressed. The petitioners, feeling the multiplied distresses of their situation, had heard with regret and astonishment, the figurative language of the right hon. gentleman; from which they drew, at least, this conclusion, that the commercial measures of ministers were not to be relinquished in the smallest degree. The right hon. gentleman had disclaimed his having treated the deputation with any thing like levity; and he fully believed him, for he was convinced that neither that right hon. gentleman nor the Chancellor of the Exchequer, nor the hon. and learned gentleman, not now in his place, (Mr. Stephen,) who might be considered as the father of the Orders in Council, had now in their minds any feelings of levity or ridicule on this subject, but rather those of a very contrary description. The object of the present petitioners, however, was simply to express, not that the expressions of the right hon. gentleman conveyed insult of insensibility, but merely that they excite
1065Mr. Brougham
 observed, that the figure of speech in which the right hon. gentleman had indulged, and which remained uncontradicted, had created a most melancholy impression.Mr. Brougham
1059 said, that he was instructed by his constituents to present to the House a Petition, signed by 6,500 most respectable individuals of the town of Liverpool, who in the space of only four days, had stepped forward to affix their signatures, for the purpose of praying the repeal of the Orders in Council as the cause of the commercial distress which affected not that place merely, but the country in general. The majority of the persons whose names now appeared at the fool of the Petition, were those who had signed a Petition against the Orders in Council when those measures first originated, and had then foretold the calamities which the trade of Liverpool had since suffered from the effects of those Orders, and from the closing of the ports of America. The melancholy statement of the actual condition of Liver pool, which was inserted in the Petition, was unwillingly obtruded upon the feel-
1059General Gascoyne
 remarked, that the expression had been repeated to him by a member of the House a day or two after it had been used.Mr. J. W. Ward
 said, that he did not at all doubt but that the right hon. gentleman was in Ireland, where, during the discussion of the late important question, he ought not to have been. He expressed his hope, that the House would not excuse the absence of the right hon. gentleman.General Mathew
1069 did not understand why the right hon. gentleman should have
1069General Mathew
l10751074 said, that he scarcely ever offered himself to the House with more pleasure than on the present occa-
l10751074General Mathew
 acknowledged he had been a little out of order. All he had to say further, and indeed it was for that he rose, was, that he considered the motion did not go far enough. His opinions were those of the gallant admiral.General Mathew
 thought the hon. general might have been a little more lenient in his observations.Mr. Ellison
 deprecated the harshness with which the gentlemen opposite seemed to wish to have the right hon. member treated. He should move an amendment to the motion, That the right hon. gentleman be ordered to attend in his place on this day se'nnight.Mr. R. Ward
 here called the hon. general to order; and insisted, that in deviating to the abuse of any member, he was departing from the motion before the House.Mr. R. Ward
 expected that the right hon. gentleman opposite, who had moved the call of the House, would have been the first to move the right hon. member into custody. As to the amendment, there was not the least doubt but that the right hon. member would be in his place on that day se'nnight. He was one of the lords of the Treasury, and materially connected with Ireland; and he certainly knew not why the presence of such a member should not have been enforced on the important question lately under consideration. If the House had the least regard for its dignity, it must order the right hon. member into custody.Mr. Brand
 referred to the 6,560 witnesses who in this Petition bore ample testimony of the perfect truth of the assertions he had made regarding the real miseries of the inhabitants of Liverpool.Mr. Creevey
 spoke in favour of the motion. and dwelt particularly on the merits of lord Wellington in the commissariat department of his army.Mr. Whitshed Keene
 suggested, that if the right hon. gentleman could not deny the precise expression, at least he could disclaim the policy which might be supposed to dictate it.Mr. Lyttelton
 rose again and said, he was absolutely certain that the right hon. gentleman would have been in his place had he not met with some unforeseen accident. However, he confessed that he had received no letter from the right hon. member.Mr. Pole
 said, that he believed the right hon. member was in Ireland.Mr. Pole
 did not think that the motion went far enough in rewarding the illustrious commander of the army in Spain. He was of opinion, that the highest dignity the country had to bestow would fall short of rewarding his merits. Why should not the gallant commander have a marshall's staff, and be put at the head of the military administration of the country?Sir Joseph Yorke
 believed, that the list of killed and wounded was made up long before the printing of the Gazette, he had seen that list in a public room at twelve o'clock of the night on which the dispatches arrived. This circumstance, however, was probably not generally known.Sir Mark Wood
 rose to set himself right with the House. When he got up before, his intention was by no means to oppose the vote of thanks.Lord Milton
1070 spoke to order; he wished to know from the chair, whether this was
1070Lord Milton
10971096109510941093 on rising, expressed his regret that it had not fallen to the lot of an abler person than himself to bring the important subject on which he was about to address them before the consideration of the House. It was not his intention, however, to go at any great length into the general question of the policy of the Orders in Council, a subject so lucidly and eloquently treated on a recent occasion by his hon. and learned friend. He should limit him-self therefore to that view of those Orders which were connected with the immediate motion which he was about to submit. In the year 1806, the violent measures and decrees of the enemy induced the British government to take such steps as seemed best calculated by a counter operation to inflict upon the French government those commercial injuries with which it had endeavoured to assail us. Whatever might be the policy of the Order then issued, he must deny that the Decrees against which it was directed were constructed upon any novel or unprecedented principles. Simi-
10971096109510941093Lord Stanley
11041103ll1102llllllllllll11011100l10991098 expressed his satisfaction that the time was come when the subject could be fully discussed. From what had fallen from the noble lord, it appeared that he was wholly unacquainted with the real nature of the Berlin Decree. The noble lord bad described it merely as a municipal regulation, and that of a nature by no means novel. In May, 1806, in consequence of prior efforts of France to distress British commerce, the late government of this country issued orders to blockade ail the ports from Brest to the river Elbe. In the wisdom and justice of this order he perfectly concurred. At that period we had a naval power sufficient to enforce the blockade, and it was consistent with the law of nations to do so. The consequence was, however, the promulgation of the Berlin Decree. This Decree denied our right to take merchant ships at sea, who were endeavouring to violate the blockade. Was that not novel? It declared that a blockade could extend only to fortified
11041103ll1102llllllllllll11011100l10991098Mr. Rose
110811071106 observed, that all the efforts which had been made on that side of the House to obtain a committee proved fruitless; but he was glad to see, that now petitions had arrived from almost every district in the country, that now the voice of the nation spoke aloud, government had so far yielded as to consent to enquiry. Such being the case, he should certainly not go into that length on the subject, which it was otherwise his intention to have done, but should confine himself to a few observations in reply to some part of the speech of the right hon. gentleman, which he thought calculated to deceive the House.110811071106Mr. Baring
1110llll1109 said, the vote he should give was not an admission upon the merits of the question, but merely a concession to the wishes of the country, to go into enquiry on the subject. The Orders in Council were not mere commercial regulations, but measures of just retaliation against France; and as an effort against the enemy, they had been proved efficient. He thought too, that the country ought not to abandon such a system on account merely of any temporary pressures, which, however, had not been, in his judgment, at all as heavy as might, under all circumstances, have been reasonably expected. The Berlin and Milan Decrees, he contended, were in full force, and England was always prepared to say, that the Orders in Council should fall when those Decrees were withdrawn. The condition, however, declared on the other side, was, that their Decrees should fall with the surrender of our system of blockade. He trusted that if there was any hostile feeling in America towards us, the conduct of France would bring her back to more mild and favourable sentiments. We should not revoke our system in favour of one neutral to the manifest injury of all others. He would allow that Mr. Monroe did not contend against the prin-
1110llll1109Lord Castlereagh
 in explanation, said he had not stated that the Berlin Decree was a mere municipal regulation. He wished to enquire whether, if it should appear that the Orders in Council constituted the principal cause of the present distress, his Majesty's government would give up the measure, or persevere in their former declaration?Lord Stanley,
1112 replied, that he did not feel it necessary in this stage of the business, before any enquiry had been made, to enter into any pledge or promise as to his future conduct. Supposing, however, that it were proved that
1112The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1113 replied, that, in his opinion, this matter bad been very unfairly brought forward by the American.
1113Lord Castlereagh
 was not prepared to say that any blame had been attached to sir J. Craig. All that he had directed the agent to ascertain was, the temper of the States near that which he had to defend: and that he had no other objects but defence in view, was clear, from his immediately recalling the person when the apprehension of invasion was over.Lord Castlereagh
 also referred to a letter from Mr. Ryeland, to the agent, Henry, in which he proposed to furnish him with a cypher, in which to carry on his correspondence, and authorized him to meet any leading men on the subject of the separation, if they shewed a disposition to come under the protection of the British government. He was desirous of information on this subject.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he had not found this letter among sir J. Craig's correspondence.Lord Castlereagh
 in answer to a question which was put in the course of the discussion yesterday, upon the subject of the Orders in Council, stated, that, from his recollection of the conversation between the manufacturers of Birmingham, and the President of the Board of Trade, the right hon. gentleman did assimilate the state of this country and France to two persons in a bucket of water. He did not recollect the exact words which had been used, but he certainly could bear testimony to the respect and attention with which the deputation was received. And he denied, therefore, that the right hon. gentleman had treated it with any thing like levity or insult.Mr. Dugdale,
 thought that he could answer his noble friend's question, though the right hon. gentleman would not. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had been asked whether he would consent to the committee?—His answer was in the negative. Consulting his friends, however, he found among them such strong symptoms of disaffection as induced him to alter his determination. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was now asked if he would repeal the Orders in Council after the report of the committee had been made? His answer was, No. If the right hon. gentleman should discover, however, that desertion was likely to ensue, and he should be left in a minority, when the time arrived no doubt he would be as ready to repeal the Orders as he was to consent to the committee upon them.Mr. Tierney
 said, that nothing that had fallen from the noble lord should tempt him for a moment to deviate from his resolution of saying nothing upon the question till they had come out from the enquiry, which could alone, in his mind, render them competent to speak upon it. He deprecated, however, the exulting tone adopted by the noble lord in speaking of what the noble lord was pleased to term the prosperity of our commerce. As to the meaning put by the noble lord upon his own vote, it appeared rather inconsistent, that if that noble lord and his friends thought that the Orders in Council were not to be abandoned, they should vote to send those measures, as it were, to their trial, by voting to refer them to the consideration of a committee. It was, he thought, practising a gross delusion upon the public, to hold out to them a shew of relief if none whatever was ultimately intended. He could not divine the motives which had at length, after such a manifesto as they had lately issued, induced the ministers—to use no more invidious terms—induced the ministers to agree to the committee. He expressed a wish that the committee might be gone into tomorrow, and continue to sit from day to day, deferring all other less urgent business until the present was disposed of.Mr. Brougham
1111 in opposition to what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman, denied that it was the intention of ministers that the Orders in Council should be put on their trial in the committee. The question to be there examined was, whether any part of the commercial distress complained of, was owing to them, and not whether the policy which dictated them was founded upon right or wrong principles, notwithstanding the petitioners from Birmingham had ventured to decide the question, by asserting that the government had overturned the clearest principles of national law. After the wiss
1111Mr. Stephen,
 referring to the accounts just received by the. American papers, of Mr. Madison's Message to Congress, relative to an authorised agent being employed by the British government to foment the separation of the Eastern State from the Union, and ascertain the sentiments of the people of Boston on that topic, wished to ask the noble lord opposite, if he avowed the authenticity of the letter stating this fact, or-knew of such agent so authorised?Mr. Whitbread,
 then gave notice of a motion for the production of these papers to-morrow.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he was not at all satisfied with this answer, and would be glad to know if government would produce the correspondence with sir James Craig, if moved for?Mr. Whitbread
 read a passage from a letter dated 26th Feb. 1809, mentioning the separation of the Union, and wished to know on its being communicated to government, what steps were consequently taken?Mr. Whitbread
 represented the great increase which had taken place in the poor rates in Birmingham, in consequence of the depressed state of the manufactures of that town.Sir Charles Mordaunt
 expressed his surprize at the objection which had been urged by the hon. baronet. The more especially when he considered that there had been but one single petition presented against the Bill, and that from the Merchant Taylors' Company; which, while it approved of the principle of the Bill, objected to provisions therein which did not in reality exist. The regulations proposed were extremely simple, and such as no honest man could fairly dissent from.Mr. Lockhart
 stated, that he had received a letter from the Merchant Taylors' Company, calling upon him to oppose the Bill, as unwise and unnecessary; but on examining its merits, so far was he from concurring in the opinion that it was unwise or unnecessary, that he conceived it of great importance, and likely to be productive of the utmost benefit to the public, as it would prevent those abuses in the disposition of charitable donations which had so long existed with impunity. He should give it all the support in his power.Mr. Wrottesky
 postponed till to-morrow his motion for repressing the issue of Local Tokens. He should now, however, pursuant to notice, move for leave to bring in a Bill to increase the penalties imposed last year on the imitating and counterfeiting of tokens issued by the Bank. He proposed also, that provision should be made in the Bill for repressing an abuse which must have come within the observation of many gentlemen—he meant the engraving of pieces of paper which had all the semblance of Bank notes, and which were calculated to catch the eye of the unwary. He had seen a parcel of these papers, which at a little distance, and when not narrowly inspected, had the appearance of bank-notes for one, five, or twenty pounds, which escaped the charge of forgery by having the word 'pins' instead of pounds, but which from their texture and appearance might escape detection and pass with the unwary, as had actually happened in a variety of instances. The present penalty for fraudulently putting off such papers was only six months imprisonment. He proposed that the Bill should increase it to 12 months imprisonment for the first offence, and that the offender should find security for his good behaviour for two years. For the second offence, he had to propose transportation for years. For the more effectual prevention of the counterfeiting of Bank tokens, he proposed, that the offence should be made a transportable felony for 14 years. He concluded with moving,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the order of the day for the third reading of this Bill.Mr. Lockhart
 supported the Bill.Mr. Thompson
 wished that royal hospitals should be exempted.Mr. Herbert
 said, that what he had stated last night was, that it did not follow that America would, of course, be satisfied with the repeal of the Orders in Council.Mr. Rose
1122, alluding to an expression of sir T. Turton, that the committee would be illusory and insulting, animadverted, in pointed terms, on the use of such language. If the course taken by government were called so, nothing could be more mistaken than the motives imputed to them; and what would, on the other hand have been said, had they refused to go into this committee?—that they had refused to hear the Petitions, and enquire into their distresses; and then, indeed, the charge of insulting would have been rung in their ears. He considered it to be due to the petitioners to ascertain the full extent of their grievances, while at the same time they might determine to persevere in that line of policy most beneficial to the general interests of the empire. With regard to the Declaration alluded to, it certainly contained the sentiments of
1122The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Attwood, high bailiff of Birmingham, was called in, and examined by Mr. Brougham. This witness was principally cross-examined by Mr. Stephen; but some questions were also put to him by Mr. Whitbread, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Baring, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Lyttelton, and Mr. Brougham; after which he was ordered to withdraw.Mr. Thomas
 did not think the production of a part of the account would answer the object of the hon. gentleman; and he could very easily form in his own mind the danger to be apprehended from laying the whole account on the table. By it those parts of Europe and of the world would be pointed out to the enemy, with which we carried on the greatest trade, and much mischief might arise from such a disclosure, when it was recollected how anxious the enemy was to occupy with his troops those ports where British manufactures were permitted to be landed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed, that a full disclosure would be likely to occasion ill consequences; but the account, he thought, could be so generalized as to give every information, without producing any harm whatever. The trade to the Straits, the Brazils, Portugal, Spain, and the Spanish colonies, could be stated without any fear of the discovery causing a diminution.Mr. Baring
 expressed himself willing to give every information consistent with prudence. If no danger attended the production of the document, he and his friends would be extremely happy to grant it. By fully shewing the system on which trade was at present conducted, it would operate decisively in defence of the measures pursued.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not believe a single item of the Exports to the army was contained in the list of ExportsThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to ascertain whether it was intended to adhere to the accustomed rule of not permitting witnesses to be in hearing during the examination of others. It was right that this point should be settled at their outset. Upon this a conversation of some length arose, in which Mr. Brougham, the Speaker, Mr. Tierney, Mr. Ryder, and other members participated, and it was at last understood, that witnesses in hearing during the examination of preceding witnesses, should be liable to be objected to on that account.The Speaker
 said, he only wanted an account of the description mentioned by his hon. friend. To the places enumerated by him he could wish to have added, Sicily, Malta, and Heligoland.Mr. Brougham
in toto1124 expressed a wish that a document, for which he had called previous to the first debate on the Orders in Council, but which had been refused, might now be laid before the House. It was particularly necessary, as the inquiry had been begun, that this paper should be produced. It was an account of the Exports of Great Britain to all parts of the world, for a certain period, distinguishing the Exports to each country. This was
in toto1124Mr. Brougham
 coincided entirely in the wise and candid sentiments expressed by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. It was impossible that the House could go into the intended committee with better impressions. This was no common investigation, for the nation was, he would not say, in a state of universal distress, but certainly in a state of universal com plaint, as was proved by the numerous Petitions. He hoped that every member would go into the committee without any bias and for his own part he most solemnly declared that his mind was divested from all former opinions, and ready to admit any evidence as if he was in a Jury box.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that some of the witnesses not being in town, would cause the course of examination to be more desultory than intended; and after a few words from the Chancellor of the Exchequer and lord Stanley,Mr. Brougham
1125l was anxious that the account of our Exports to Spain and Portugal should be laid before the House. Some time ago, those Exports were stated to amount to 18,000,0001125lMr. H. Thornton
 conceived the Bill wholly unnecessary, and only calculated to put money in the pockets of the persons with whom the registries were to be made.Sir James Graham
 explained a misrepresentation of his speech last night. He did not say that it would be necessary to have Vattel, and Puffendorf, and Grotius on the table of the committee, but that if every matter connected with the enquiry was gone into, as held out by gentlemen on the other side, that might be the natural consequence. With regard to the Petitions against the Orders in Council, he had said, that if it had been thought ministers were inclined to alter their system of policy, there would have been a number of counter Petitions. He had also maintained the doctrine, that a country might cease a retaliating measure, if it found itself hurt by it.Mr. Stephen
 observed, that the increase was in a great measure owing to our supplying those articles which were formerly furnished by Holland, but which trade our Orders in Council had prevented.Mr. Stephen
 said, that from the arguments of the right hon. gentleman, and from the Declaration of the government which had just been published, he was quite convinced that, till within a few hours of the time, that right hon. gentleman had been disposed to resist going into this committee; and, therefore, he was not now to ascribe his acquiescence to respect to the petitioners, but to his being compelled to the vote, by the hints of his own friends, that they would not give him their support in refusing the enquiry. He denied that the Declaration was well founded, and maintained that the policy of the right hon. gentleman, if persevered in, and not checked by the House, as his former determination had been, must inevitably lead to an American war.Mr. Whitbread
ll felt no disposition to object to the motion, although the right hon. gentleman had not given any regular notice of his intention to bring it forward. With respect to the wasteful manner in which the right hon. gentleman had stated the public money had been squandered, he had only to observe, that during the last year, for the first time, the expenditure for the purposes alluded to, had been much less than on any former occasion, having been within the sum allowed by parliament for that purpose. When the right hon. gentleman was Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland, the expenditure was 17,000llMr. Wellesley Pole
1120 said, he was really going to see whether the opposition of the worthy alderman was given with a grave face or not. He saw it was, although he observed a smile on the countenance of the worthy alderman, at which he was not surprized, when he recollected that the only objection which induced him to oppose the progress of the Bill was, the fact of there being no exemption of the Charities of the city of London. He begged to assure the hon. member, that there was not the slightest suspicion entertained of the honour of the different guilds of the city of London; but if they were exempted from registering their donations, the same privilege would be claimed by other corporations, and the great object of the Bill would be defeated. Indeed, such claims had actually been made from Bristol
1120Mr. Wilberforce
1123 earnestly recommended to the House to enter into this examination with a proper and serious feeling for the distresses of the country, and with their minds purged of all party views. They ought to set themselves fairly to ascertain the extent and amount of the evil, and to what causes it was to be ascribed, with a desire to remove them if possible. This being their duty, he could not help condemning the line of argument adopted by the hon. gentleman who spoke last. It was wrong to impute bad motives for an act which he himself considered to be a good one; instead of the most obvious and natural motive, a feeling for the distresses
1123Mr. Wilberforce
 gave full credit to the right hon. gentleman, for the œconomical measures which had been pursued by the present government of Ireland. He, however, observed, that it had been candidly admitted by his predecessor in office (lord Wellington,) that those proclamations were given to certain papers as a reward; for their advocating the measures of government.Mr. Parnell
sl1114 moved, "That there be laid
sl1114Sir John Newport
 not having been in the House last night, rose to ask a few questions. He wished to know if the right hon. gentleman opposite meant to go into a committee merely to ascertain the distresses of the country, and not to endeavour to discover a mode of relieving them? If so, it was to add insult and illusion to the misery of the petitioners. He asked if, consistent with the Declaration published within these few days by the government, it was possible for them to yield the relief of a repeal of the Orders in Council? They could not; and therefore he thought the Committee nugatory, and the hope of these unfortunate persons forlorn. He required explanation on several other points in the discussion of last night.Sir T. Turton,
 said, the objection to the Bill did not arise with the corporation of London, but with the twelve companies.Sir W. Curtis
 said, the principle of this Bill was such, as to call for general approbation; yet there were clauses in it which, in his opinion, would completely overbalance any good effects which might result from it. He should, therefore, give his vote against its passing into an act.Sir W. Curtis
 conceived the account might be drawn up in the way mentioned by his learned friend, from which no danger was likely to arise.Lord Milton
1141 thought that the profusion of the proposed grant had been unanswerably shewn by the hon. gentleman who moved the amendment. He himself did know of the scandalous jobs in the erection of barracks at Bath; and with regard to the scite of the proposed barracks at Liverpool, it was very likely that a beautiful view for the officers might enter into the plans of those who suggested them. The expence of the barracks at Bath was much greater than in any other instance, but the new barracks at Marylebone would cost four times as much. If the House assented to such profusion, they must labour under the grossest delusion with regard to the feelings of the people on the subject of our expences.—A man could hardly enter a stage coach, but the first questions which he heard were, How is the country to go on with our present expences? How is the loan of the present year to be made?" and other enquiries of a similar kind. In the present depressed state of our manufactures and commerce, no one circumstance so much aggravated the feelings of the people from one end of the kingdom to the other, as the system of extravagant expenditure that was pursued. The Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to lament it; and it really would appear that he had not the means of its prevention, but must conform to the wishes of those in a higher quarter. The last ministry had given pledges, and had shewn some disposition towards retrenchment; and he really believed that this was one cause why they had existed so short a time. Financial extravagance had been the destruction of all modern governments; the first disturbances of the French Revolution had been occasioned by the unbounded profusion of the French
1141Mr. C. Smith
ll1144ll1143 supported the original grant. As to the barracks at Bristol and Liverpool, there was no argument made against the necessity of the first, which was at all tenable, and the objection against the other was altogether local. The Commander in Chief allowing its full weight to the Petition of those who did not wish that a barrack should be built on the scite of San Domingo, near Liverpool, had given two months time to the applicants to find out a situation instead of it: and there was not certainly the least desire on the part of government to build on that scite, it one equally convenient could be had. As to the arguments of the hon. gentleman who spoke against the principle of barracks altogether, he should like to know from the hon. gentleman if it were possible by any enchantment to do away at once all the barracks in the country, did he imagine that the troops could
ll1144ll1143Mr. Wharton
 spoke in favour of altering and reducing the present estimate. He said that he for one could not agree to vote away any sum at the present moment that could by possibility be avoided. He was convinced there were so many very heavy expences coming upon us from various quarters which must be attended to, that the utmost economy in every department of our expenditure was absolutely necessary; and he would not do any thing that might give a check to our exertions in the peninsula. If the country was to be burdened with large additional sums, let them be applied to carrying on the war in the peninsula. This was, in his opinion, a very bad time to build expensive barracks when timber was at so high a price: and it might, from various circumstances, be reasonably hoped, that in a short time a great alteration would take place. He was sure there was a very great profusion in the estimate of the present barracks, and he saw no necessity for building the officers' lodgings in the barracks.Mr. Bankes
 concurred generally with Mr. Bankes, as to the unfitness of the time, and the barracks not being now absolutely necessary. His great objection was to the enormous expenditure, and he apprehended no danger to the horse guards, from their remaining in the same situation in which they had been for the last century.Mr. Wynn
 said, the barracks built 50 years ago were more comfortable for the men, more convenient for discipline, and more durable than those built of late years at greater expence. Till the cause of this was enquired into, he wished the present vote to be postponed.Mr. Bastard
1147 said, that he felt it less necessary to address the House, from the conviction he entertained of the truth of the assertion of the Secretary of the Treasury, that he should be able to persuade the majority of the House that the vote ought to be acceded to. On this subject, however, involving a question of the highest constitutional importance, he could not consent to give a silent vote. On former occasions, in addressing the House upon this subject, he had been accused of disaffection, because he had asserted, that the government was attempting to make use of that army which was paid by the people for the subjugation of the people.—The truth of this statement the vote now proposed made evident, and some of its supporters even went so far as to urge the necessity of concurring in it, lest the soldiers should be intercepted by the populace whom they were to subdue, on the way to their horses. [Hear! hear! from ministers.] He had no doubt his remarks were not very welcome to the other side of the House, whose business it was, with inconsistent prodigality, to throw away the public money with one hand, while they were grinding the nation with taxation with the other. At a time when discontents convulsed the country—when ministers felt their weakness, and required support other than that of the people, that was indeed the fit period for establishing a military system for their protection, by the erection of barracks to keep down the national spirit in all the populous districts. Much was said of the hateful tyranny of Buonaparté, but was
1147Sir F. Burdett
 spoke to order. He said that to assert that what the hon. baronet was stating was the truth, was casting an undeserved slur upon the army.General Manners
 denied that he was making any accusation against those who were compelled to act under the orders of their superiors. It was the administration of the country that he charged with employing the army to commit murders.Sir F. Burdett
 desired that the hon. baronet's words might be taken down.General Manners
1148 said, that he had no objection to any of his words being taken down; but as the hon. general had called him to order without attempting to shew how he was out of order, and expressed a wish that his words should be taken down without moving for it regularly, he thought that it was rather the words of the hon. general which ought to be taken down. He would maintain that the act which was relied on, called the Riot Act, did not say any thing about soldiers, or authorise the magistrates to employ them as they had done, or give up a starving population to military execution. When he heard the Secretary to the Treasury argue, that it was a vicious system to keep the soldiers out of barracks, or to allow any free intercourse between them and the people, he could not but observe how totally the constitutional opinions of our ancestors had been departed from in the present times. Such doctrines would have filled our forefathers with horror and affright, and against such sentiments he must ever protest. Was it in this new era that the Prince Regent was to be told by his ministers, that the foundations of the British throne ought not to rest in the affections of the people, but on an army? At former periods of our history, and in the most successful reigns, such had not been the policy of the country. When Queen Elizabeth was asked by the Spanish minister, where were her
1148Sir F. Burdett
11501149 was firmly convinced, that however the question might be disposed of, or what ever might be thought of the details of it, there would be very few persons found either in the House or in the country to follow the hon. baronet in his argument, or to concur in a single sentiment which the hon. baronet had uttered. He believed that the hon. baronet was extremely mistaken, if he supposed that the speech which he had just delivered was likely to make any great impression out of the House, or that he would be considered as acting under a sound discretion, when at this period above all others—when his mind could not fail to be impressed with the disgraceful scenes that every day occurred in a particular part of the kingdom, the hon. baronet held out to the people that those measures, the employment of which cruel necessity compelled, were re-
11501149The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared to the House that he should, in the course of this week, be able to lay upon the table some information respecting the renewal of the Charter of the East India Company. This was the last day of the week, and as he had not yet fulfilled his pledge, he was desirous of knowing whether it was the right hon. gentleman's intention to persevere in bringing the matter forward during the present session?Mr. Ponsonby
1152 answered that since he had last addressed the House upon the subject, some difference of opinion had arisen between the directors of the East India Company and government, which rendered it much more unlikely, that the matter would be brought under discussion this session, than be had had reason to believe would have been the case. A court of proprietors was to be held that day, respecting the difference to which
1152The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1140 objected to the erection of barracks at Liverpool, upon the ground of that town being by no means situated in the direct line to Ireland; and as it was important to preserve the intercourse with that Country as closely as possible, he thought the most natural course of communication would be by the way of Portsmouth and Plymouth to the Cove of Cork, a course which would he peculiarly advantageous; first, from the march of
1140General Tarleton
 having heard it observed, that the officers did not need to be accommodated in the barracks, thought that officers ought always to be lodged along with I the men, otherwise they might easily be intercepted, on any emergency, in going separately from their homes.General Phipps
 had to answer the right hon. baronet that it would be much better if they were.General Phipps
1142 said the House ought well to consider, if it were necessary to erect the barracks at all. It was said the innkeepers would be released by the measure, but did gentlemen consider what a permanent expence these would entail on the Country? If happily a peace were made tomorrow, these would still be an expence to the country. Might it not then be better to give the inn-keepers some compensation for the inconveniences to which they were subjected. If quartering the soldiers in Bristol would be too far from the French prisoners in that neigh-
1142Mr. Wrottesley
 said, the objections of the inhabitants of Liverpool were, not to the erection of barracks, but to the place selected for that purpose; which was one inhabited by the most respectable people of Liverpool, who did not object to the soldiers, having no doubt of their discipline, but to the people who sold liquor, soldier's wives, and such description of persons as generally settled in the neighbourhood of troops. He intimated, however, that the commander in chief had expressed his readiness to meet their wishes, by the abandonment of San Domingo, provided any spot equally eligible could be procured.General Gascoyne
 said, that although he came down to the House to vote for the amendment, he had been induced to change his resolution by the address of the hon. baronet, and certainly the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in his comments been a little ungrateful, since no speech that had been delivered could have more benefited him.—He was an enemy to barracks, but if any thing could convince him to think them necessary, it would be the prevalence of such doctrines as he had heard with disgust that night; and he trusted he should not often see persons in this country appeal from the laws to the mob.Mr. Barham
 observed, that though the valuable lease of 548 acres of Mary-le-bone Park had fallen into the crown within the last year, and there had been no report from the surveyor-general of the laud revenue of the crown since that of Mr. Fordyce, in 1800, yet that no report had been made this session. This was a breach of the act of the 50th of the King, which directed such reports to be laid be-fore parliament every three years. It was the duty of lord Glenbervie to have furnished the history of these crown lands; and he was the more disinclined to leave the management of these matters to his lordship, whom, he saw, was proprietor in a new canal, called the Regent's Canal, about to be cut in this very Mary-le-bone Park. Lord Glenbervie, he observed, by a clause in the Bill, had given himself, as surveyor-general of the land revenues of the crown, a power to contract with lord Glenbervie, as proprietor of the Regent's Canal—[Here the hon. gentleman read the clause empowering the sale of part of the crown lands for the purposes of the Canal.] His lordship had also issued cards to the members of the House, to come down on Tuesday, at three o'clock, to support the Bill, and to assure all those who chose to join him of 11 per cent. for their money. Indeed so busy did he appear to be with his canal, he had not had time to make his report. On these grounds he wished for further enquiry, before he voted the money now asked for. He also objected to the scite chosen for the barracks at Liverpool, and contended that the other side of the town was more eligible.Mr. Creevey
lllllll1139lllllllllll1138ll rose for the purpose of opposing it. There was nothing in the estimates to justify the House in granting the sums there named. There were three barracks to be erected, one in Marylebone, one in Bristol, and one in Liverpool. To begin with perhaps the least objectionable of these three plans, that of erecting cavalry barracks at Liverpool; these barracks were intended to contain 1,000 men, and the expence had been estimated at 82,000lllllll1139lllllllllll1138llMr. Fremantle
ll1151 condemned, in very strong and pointed language, the speech delivered by the hon. baronet, which he had heard with pain, though not with astonishment, recollecting the rooted aversion which the hon. baronet must naturally entertain to the life guards, who had restored order at a time when the hon. baronet was the first to set the laws at defiance. He maintained that the military, whenever they were called on to suppress disturbances, behaved with a moderation that was highly admirable, and which even the deluded wretches whom they quelled were the first to acknowledge. The hon. baronet had made allusions to the history of former periods, which by no means bore him out in his argument. In particular he had adverted for an instance of the reliance which a sovereign might place on his subjects to the reign of Elizabeth, who was known to be one of the greatest tyrants that ever existed.—Still, it was with sorrow he said it, he was compelled to concur with the hon. baronet in the vote he should give. He contended that the erection of
ll1151Mr. Huskisson
1136 presented a Petition from the merchants, ship owners, and other inhabitants of Bridlington, in the East Riding of the county of York; setting forth,1136Mr. Wilberforce
1146 supported the original Resolution, and had no hope of any time coming more fit than the present, for executing works, in his opinion, absolutely indispensable. He contended for the necessity of having barracks near town for the guards, who could not remain in the stables they possessed any longer, and were liable to all the evils and inconveniencies attendant on being billetted in public-houses, two or three miles from their horses. He also maintained, that the expence incurred would not be more than the men now cost in various other
1146Sir Mark Wood
1145 wished to ask the hon. general, whether the officers of the foot
1145Sir J. Newport
 contended, that it was highly necessary to erect barracks at Bristol; first, with a view of relieving the innkeepers from the burdens they had to encounter by the number of soldiers who were continually quartered on them, and next on account of there being 5,000 French prisoners confined within four miles of the city.Mr. Bathurst
 said there could be no objection to the motion.Mr. Rose
1159 said, that as the paper would be shortly before the House, the production of it would afford the best contradiction to the statement of the noble lord. There was one part, however, which he could not even
1159Mr. Rose
 said no Custom-house officer dared suffer any such article to be imported.Mr. Rose
 submitted, that with the information his noble friend had received, he had done nothing more than his duty in bringing the matter before the House; and he hoped the House would not be satisfied unless the word silks formed part of the motion. The return too, if it shewed that no silks had actually been imported, would most effectually calm any dissatisfaction or fermentation that might prevail.Sir F. Burdett
 thought it hardly worth while to oppose the motion as it stood, as the return would give the best answer to this charge.Mr. Rose
 asked, would the noble lord take upon him to say, that he had seen French silks in the river within these two days?Mr. Rose
11621161 of Scotland followed on the same side. He was quite aware that gentlemen by no means conceived to what evil results this Bill might lead. At the time of the Union with Scotland it was stipulated, that the municipal law and its regulations should be preserved entire. This was done as much for the sake of supporting private right as for any public consideration; it was done, in fact, for the safety of the landed proprietors. Scot
11621161The Lord Advocate
1163 observed, that notwithstanding the high authorities of Junius and Wilkes, he had always thought the assertion a calumny, that the Scottish nation was attached with peculiar fervour to any thing in the shape of pecuniary emolument; the speech just delivered had induced him to waver in his opinion, and perhaps his countrymen might thank the right hon. and learned gentleman for a confirmation of the truth of the statement. He (Mr. L.) could not give the Scotch credit for that zealous attachment to monarchy which had been so much boasted; nor would he dwell upon the subject, lest the headless ghosts of a Charles and a Montrose should be conjured up in the imaginations of the members for North Britain. He had passed a considerable portion of his life in Scotland, and he would not, as their countryman to-night had done, be so unjust as to assert, that he had noticed any peculiar affection for the majesty of inefficiency, or the dignity of idleness. With regard to the immediate question, he was fully convinced that the
1163Mr. Lyttlton
1169 professed, that he looked at the opposition given to this measure as not a little insidious. That House had been long engaged in exciting expectations and feeding hopes in the people, which, whether they were for ever to be disappointed, the vote of that night would probably determine. They had been told, that they ought to consider this measure with reference to past, not to present times, and to try it by principles abstracted from any immediate considerations. Was it then possible for them to shut their eyes to all that was passing in the country; to those grievous burdens under which almost all classes were now suffering? Was it possible that the peasant, who could scarcely procure the loaf that was to sustain the lives of his children, should not feel impatience at finding himself compelled to contribute to the gratification of the luxurious appetites of those, whose only recommendation was, that they were the favourites or the creatures of a minister? The time was now come when something must be done. They had indeed that night been told, that they could not with propriety enter upon this subject without an instruction from the crown. Good God that it should be stated even in that House itself, that they had no right to enquire into, or to provide for the redress of public grievances, except in the case of a message from the throne: such a proposition carried with it its own refutation in the mind of every man. Much had been said of the necessity of furnishing reward to service, but was no other motive expected to operate, at least with
1169Mr. Bastard
 opposed the Bill; every provision of which he contended would be inefficacious.Mr. Vansittart
117211711170 objected so much to the Bill in its general principle, and in its sweeping operation, that he did not conceive it necessary for him to abstain any longer from delivering his opinion. He was sorry to hear that it was conceived by some gentlemen, that be had not acted fairly by the Bill in letting it go through the committee without observation, and delaying until the present stage of it to make any observations upon it. His opinion on the principle of the Bill was, however, well known, as he had never concealed it. As the House appeared to be in some measure pledged to the principle of the Bill, he wished at least, that the hon. gentleman
117211711170The Chancellor of the Exchequer
11751174quasiquasi1173 certainly was apprised a long time ago of the hostility of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the principle of this Bill. He thought, however, that it was somewhat extraordinary, and contrary to parliamentary usage, to let the Bill be read a second time, and pass through the Committee, without any observations; and then to come forward in the present stage, and condemn not only the principle of the Bill, but those details which might have been altered in the Committee. He had not expected to have been hampered with this double difficulty: but, however, he should answer as well as he could the objections which he had now heard. The gentlemen from the North had opened a pretty sharp battery upon him; but they really appeared to him not to be able to perceive the distinction between office and salary, or to think it possible that the salary might be saved,
11751174quasiquasi1173Mr. Bankes
1176 rose and said, that at that late hour, and in the exhausted state of the House, he should only detain them a few minutes; but he was anxious shortly to explain the grounds on which he should vote for the original question. His right hon. friend (Mr. Perceval), had commenced his speech with arguing against the general principles of the Bill; but he could not resist the temptation of introducing some of its minor and petty details, for the purpose of mixing them with its principles, and obtaining the rejection of both together. This was a species of tactics which was not perhaps very unusual; but it would have been fairer to have made a stand against the principle of this Bill on the second reading; and on the other hand his hon. friend might be perfectly right in his objections to some of the minor details of the measure, while he made no way at all against its principles. The right hon. member (Mr. Canning) then commented on some of the arguments of the learned lord who spoke early in the debate, and ridiculed the importance which he attached to the continuance of certain sinecure offices in Scotland. He next alluded to the recommendation of measures of economy from the throne, at the commencement of the present parliament. The nature of the en-
1176Mr. Canning
1177 opposed the Bill, as tending to deprive the crown of the power of immediately securing to an individual of talent that which, consistently with his duty to his family, he might require to
1177Lord Castlereagh
 proposed to add the office of first commissioner for India affairs to the second class, which was objected to by Mr. Bankes and others, but was carried. He then proposed to include the office of judge advocate general.Mr. Wynn
 said, that Mr. Bond wax eminent in the circuit, and that the present judge advocate had shewn great professional talent, though he had not been in great practice.The Attorney General
 hoped the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Wynn) would not spoil the Bill by such extensions. This office ought to be viewed as a judicial one, and not as political.—It would be, therefore, more for its dignity and utility if it were exparliameantary.Mr. Bankes
 saw no diffierence in the matter, whether the holder were in or out of parliament, as it respected the merit of his services.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion, that it would be better that the judge advocate should be an exparliamentary officer.Mr. Canning
 did not wish to press his amendment.Mr. Wynn
 proposed to include the paymaster general, but after some conversation relinquished that amendment.Mr. Wynn
 objected to what affected the Irish pension list, as violating the agreement with the crown for the present King's life, and moved to omit that passage in the Bill.Colonel Barry
 said, that it did not affect the Civil List, but only its distribution.Mr. Canning
 had no objection.Mr. Bankes
1168 urged as a motive to adopt the Bill, the disappointment which would be felt by the people at large, if after the expectations held out to them, some measure of this kind should not be adopted. There was no reason to think, that this measure would prove less popular in Scotland than in England. It appeared to him, that if there were defects in the Bill it was the duly of those who pointed them out to have assisted in amending them in the Committee, and not to bring them forward for the purpose of getting rid of the Bill altogether. The
1168Lord A. Hamilton
 said he had seen them for sale, and was informed they had been lately imported.Lord Cochrane
l did not pretend to say that the silks of which he spoke had been entered at the Custom-house; but he had been informed, that they had formed part of a cargo of the value of 9,0000lLord Cochrane
 contended, that he himself did actually see French silk goods for sale within these two days. If no silk goods however had really been imported, the return would most effectually shew this.Lord Cochrane
l said, then, if agreeable to the House, he should make his motion now. It was a fact that French silks, I shawls, laces, &c. were to be seen on sale in this country at the present moment, in quantities, to the great prejudice of our own manufactures. It had always been esteemed a wise policy in this country, to prevent the importation of French manufactured goods; and even to give to other foreign goods an advantage over them. He understood, however, that there were, at this moment, to the amount of several hundred thousand pounds of French manufactured goods in the river; and the only clause in the licences, under which those goods were suffered to be imported, which went to secure any reciprocity whatever to this country, was one requiring that sugars or coffee, to the value of 5lLord Cochrane
 gave notice of a motion for Monday, for an account of the quantity of French silks, laces, cambrics, &c. imported into this country under Licences, within the last two months, with the amounts of each to the latest period.Lord Cochrane
 supported the proposition, contending, that such officers were not usually taken from high practice, in the law; and that there was no necessity to tempt persons to take them.Mr. Tierney
 said, he should move on the third reading, that it should be distinguished whether the service was in peace or war, on the same principle as the secretaryship of the Admiralty.Mr. Tierney
1158lldsldslsldsllldslllll1157 presented a Petition from the weavers and other working manufacturers of the town of Chorley and the neighbourhood there of, setting forth,1158lldsldslsldsllldslllll1157Mr. Brougham
 proposed the clerkship of the ordnance for the 4th class.Mr. Long
 supported it; and the question was put and carried.Mr. Ryder
 thought his hon. and learned friend's amendment would overlay the present Bill: the office of first commissioner for India affairs for instance, depended merely on the existence of the East India Company.Mr. Whitbread
 said, in explanation, that in attributing to the hon. gentleman the adoption of a test of merit, he spoke from a note made at the time. He also said, that he had not objected to the abolition of sinecures, except in certain instances, but that his objections were to the principle upon which the substitution was to be established; and in that respect particularly, he charged upon the hon. mover a departure from the principles of Mr. Pitt.Mr. Courtenay
1167116611651164 felt great difficulty in opposing a measure purporting to be a measure of œonomy, and the proposer of which professed himself to be treading in the steps of Mr. Burke and Mr. Pitt. He trusted that he should shew that so far from being an economical measure, it would be one of wanton profuseness, that it would tend to encrease the improper influence of the crown, and that it was, as it stood, a measure quite inconsistent with the principles and practice of Mr. Burke or Mr. Pitt. He begged that it might be remembered that in estimating the eco-
1167116611651164Mr. Courtenay
 said that, in the committee he had asked the hon. mover whether he had any objection to allowing that service in an office inferior to the lowest enumerated in the Bill, should in the case of a person promoted from such inferior office to one in either of the four classes, be reckoned in the number of years required; upon the same principle as that which provided, that service in an office in the fourth class, namely, under secretary of state,—should count towards entitling the party to the pension, in any higher class to which he might be promoted. The hon. mover had given an answer, which was understood not only by Mr. C. but by many other persons present, as being in the affirmative, but as no such provision was to be found in the Bill, he should propose it in a future stage.Mr. Courtenay
1160 argued against the principle of the Bill. His chief ground of objection was, however, that it violated the articles of Union with Scotland. The
1160Mr. W. Dundas
 concurred in the same sentiment.Mr. Manning
 moved to add to the motion the words, "Whether for exportation or for home consumption," whenSir J. Newport
 then spoke to the following effect: "I apprehend that till his royal highness the Prince Regent's intentions in calling this parliament together be made known, it will be the pleasure of the House to adjourn from day to day, without entering upon any business. I therefore rise to offer a motion to that effect. But previous to coming to this conclusion, I trust, I may be permitted to enjoy the satisfaction of congratulating the House on seeing that seat again occupied by the right hon. gentleman, whose conduct in it before had secured to him universal respect and admiration. We must, as members of this House, feel it to be a matter of great congratulation to each other, to have an individual returned to parliament whom we can elect to that situation, in which he has already so preeminently distinguished himself, to his own honour, and to the benefit of the House and of the country. It is a matter of congratulation that the first step, we have taken is likely to redound to the public advantage, and to the general good, as well as to the particular interest of this assembly. Marked as this election has been by an universal expression of sentiment that cannot be doubted, you, Sir, must feel that you possess, in the unbounded confidence of this House, the means and authority necessary to enable you to discharge with dignity and effect the important duties deposited in your hands. Under these circumstances, I will not detain the House longer by dilating on the topics so ably and fully opened by the right hon. mover, but conclude by proposing that this House do now adjourn."Lord Castlereagh
3 rose, and addressing himself to the Deputy to the Clerk of the House (who standing up,
3The right hon. Sir John Nicholl
654 —The Message from the sovereign, which has just been delivered, having recommended the choice of a Speaker to the immediate attention of the House, it seems proper that we should proceed without delay to that highly interesting function; a function which is justly considered as the ancient and un doubted privilege of the House, and the proper exercise of which, is of the utmost importance to the character and honour of the House itself, to the rights and liberties of the people, and consequently to the welfare, prosperity, and happiness of this great and extensive empire.654Mr. Ley;
, esq. addressing himself likewise to the Deputy to the Clerk of the House (who standing up, pointed to him, and then sat down) spake to the effect following:Then William Ralph Carlwright
8 stood up in his place and said:
"Mr. Ley; in rising to address the House upon the present occasion, it is impossible that I should not be desirous of returning my cordial thanks to my right hon. and honourable friends for the terms, prompted by their personal kindness towards me, in which they have proposed my name to the consideration of the House; and I have also to acknowledge with gratitude the favourable manner in which the House has been pleased to receive that proposition:8Mr. Abbot
11 having been confirmed in his office by the Lords Commissioners, addressed the House at his return from the House of Lords:11The Speaker
595857565554Auferre, traducere, rapere!535251 rose to move an Address in answer to the most gracious Speech of his royal highness the Prince Regent. In the liberty he then took of offering himself to the notice of the House, it was not his intention, nor would it be necessary, to trespass at any length upon their indulgence. With respect to the first part of the Speech, he felt confident that every person in that House, and in the country, lamented not less than himself the situation of the illustrious personage to whom it alluded. There was no one who could avoid feelings of the most lively regret when he reflected, that a life spent, as that of his Majesty had been, in the practice of every virtue that was honourable to our nature, that could adorn or dignify the man or the sovereign, and which had rendered him dear to the hearts of his subjects, should, towards the close, be deprived of that rest and of that repose which were due to his merits and to his virtues. The next point in his Royal Highness's Speech to which he would allude, was one of sincere and heartfelt gratulation, the successful resistance that had been made in the Peninsula
595857565554Auferre, traducere, rapere!535251Lord Clive
7877767574737271706968primâ facie676665646362 rose, and spoke to the following effect:7877767574737271706968primâ facie676665646362Mr. Canning
908988onus878685848382818079 said, that as the only task apparently to be imposed on ministers this night, was rather to give explanation on points which might call for further investigation hereafter, than to meet opposition on any of the political features of the government, or of the subjects contained in the Prince Regent's Speech, he should not find it necessary to enter very minutely into the consideration of the various matters which had been touched upon. Considering what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman who spoke last to be calling for explanation, rather than as differing in opinion from those who had preceded him, he (lord C.) had waited in the expectation, that if any hon. gentleman on the opposite side had further information to require, that they would state what such information was, and thus enable him at the same time to reply to them, and endeavour to satisfy the right hon. gentleman. It was no small gratification to the country, and to the Prince Regent's ministers, at this momentous and difficult crisis of the world, to find, on the opening of a new parliament,
908988onus878685848382818079Lord Castlereagh
, who had seconded the Amendment, now shortly stated his reasons for supporting it. He thought that the gallantry displayed by our troops in Spain was highly creditable; but he deeply regretted that no negociations for peace had been entered into. He was the last man that would think of a dishonourable peace: yet while we went on with warlike preparations, and opposed an undaunted front to the dangers which surrounded us, a desire of peace should animate and direct all our actions, and always be the leading principle of our conduct. The effects of the battle of Salamanca were to put lord Wellington in possession of Madrid. But the Spanish Cortes, then, instead of deliberating on measures for the welfare of the nation, were employed in re-establishing that detestable court, the Inquisition. The advantages of continental alliances had often been questioned; but it remained for our days to see this country make itself the principal in a continental war: and to find the war continued for the purpose of supporting our revenues by the increase of our maritime commerce. To him measures were every thing, men nothing; although there were certainly persons beside him for whose abilities he entertained the very highest respect. The present war, which had driven the middle ranks of society from the parlour to the garret, was now about to attack the rich; but he thought a favourable opportunity for peace presented itself, of which he trusted due advantage would be taken.Sir Gilbert Heathcote
111110109108107, thinking he had been alluded to by a right hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Canning), when he spoke of an intended Amendment, assured that right hon. gentleman and the House, that he
111110109108107Mr. Ponsonby
106105104103 spoke in favour of the original Address. As a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) had rightly stated, the
106105104103Mr. Bathurst
 also expressed his satisfaction, that the Amendment was not to be pressed to a division, as he must have been under the necessity of voting against it. Before parliament addressed the crown on the subject of peace, he thought they ought to be satisfied of two things, first, that peace was attainable; and secondly, that the mode pursued was the most likely mode of attaining it. In the present instance he was convinced of the reverse of both of these being the case; and besides such an Address at the present moment would be unwise, as tending to infuse a distrust of our sincerity into both the Spanish and Russian governments,—peculiarly unwise at the present moment, when we had been obliged to allow the capital of Spain to fall again into the hands of the invaders, and when the emperor of Russia had evinced his sincerity in the contest, by sacrificing his own capital to his political honour.Mr. Vernon
6160 said, that in rising to second the Address, it was not his wish or intention to trespass long upon the indulgence of the House, by a protracted notice of the topics which it contained. They had been so ably elucidated in the Speech itself, and the noble mover had so well and so clearly detailed the reasons that operated upon him in proposing the Address, that he should have little occasion to detain them long. Though unwilling to intrude upon their attention, he could not however resist the motives that induced him to second the Address. At a moment like the present, when Europe looked up to this country as the principal source from which resistance to the power of France was to be expected, and all eyes were turned upon us as the source whence the liberation of Europe was to flow, it was superfluous to state that his Royal Highness was called to the government at a most important crisis. In reviewing the events that had taken place since his accession to power, it was impossible not to dwell with hope and with pride upon the splendid success which had attended the British arms, in every part of the world in which they were employed. Spain had witnessed that success, almost in every one of its provinces. It was not necessary for him to recur to the bravery by which Badajoz had been relieved, or to the splendid victory at Salamanca, or the consequences that followed from that victory. Wherever British soldiers were brought into action, they displayed prodigies of heroism that must have filled every person who heard him with exultation. But, cheering as was the prospect which Spain held out, he was happy to say that the prospect was
6160Mr. Hart Davis
102101100999897969594939291 said, if the right hon. gentleman who spoke last but one had alluded to him as the person who was understood to have prepared an Amendment, he was correct in that allusion; but at for the period of the evening at which either the right hon. gentleman or the noble lord opposite might expect him to deliver his sentiments, in this he was sorry to disappoint them, though he begged to say that he considered his time for speaking was entirely at his own selection. It was true he was the person who had prepared an Amendment; but before he expressed his own he wished to hear the sentiments of the right hon. gentleman as well as those of the noble lord who had just sat down. He was particularly desirous of hearing the right hon. gentleman's opinion of affairs at this time, for the right hon. gentleman in his answer to his constituents at Liverpool, said it was his own fault if he was not now minister. However, he did not rise to-night to dwell in contention with him, as he might have done at former periods, but to deliver his sentiments on what he conceived to be the present state of the country. In his opinion, there were great omissions in the Speech of the Prince Regent, or rather of his Royal Highness's advisers. The Speech had professed to give, as it ought to give, ample information to the House, on the existing situation of the country, on the events that had occurred since the sitting of the last parliament, and the subject of our foreign relations, but there was no information with respect to the dispute with America; and with respect to Spain, there was nothing which could in anywise enable them to form a judgment as to what was the cause of the late losses which the country had so much reason
102101100999897969594939291Mr. Whitbread
 followed, and took up nearly the same grounds. He was happy to understand, that it was not the intention of his hon. friend to push his Amendment to a division. Had he been forced, however, to give a vote upon the subject, it must have been against the Amendment; because he thought that an Address, founded on the distresses of the country, and recommending the adoption of measures for procuring peace, would have the effect of retarding, rather than of accelerating that object—if, by a peace were meant the advantages which ought necessarily to result from the accomplishment of such a measure.Mr. Elliot
 further impressed upon the House the necessity of inquiring into the present state of the public expenditure, before the Report at the bar was agreed to. As to the general subject of the royal Speech, he was decidedly of opinion, that our prospects at the present moment were not nearly so bright as at the commencement of the last session of parliament. The war in which we had injudiciously plunged ourselves with America, was in no degree counterbalanced by the peace that had been concluded with Russia. With regard to the peninsula, he was persuaded that, by the battle of Salamanca we had gained nothing but glory, and that the freedom of Spain was no nearer in its ac complishment than when the marquis of Wellington was posted at Torres Vedras. At the same time that he disapproved of the Address, he acknowledged that he could not vote for the Amendment that had been last night offered to supersede it, and which recommended propositions for peace to the Prince Regent. He thought such a proposition coming from the House, would inevitably defeat its own object, and lower the country in the eyes of the enemy.Mr. Fremantle
122 was surprised that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, could have advanced that the late campaign in the peninsula had left our affairs in that quarter in a worse situation. This gross error, into which many other honourable gentlemen had fallen, arose from their considering the campaign as beginning at the battle of Salamanca, whereas, in fact, it had begun at the taking of Ciudad Rodrigo; and this was the only fair point of view in which it could be considered. The hon. gentleman the
122Mr. Robinson
 said, he wished to correct a mistake of the hon. gentleman who had moved the amendment—a mistake which had occasioned much misconception out of doors. His right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had never proposed a tax on capital, and from all the attention which he himself had given to the subject, he was convinced, that such a tax was altogether impracticable. A right reverend prelate (the bishop of Llandaff) had indeed written a pamphlet on the subject some years ago, but still, after the most mature consideration, he remained satisfied of the impossibility and impracticability of such a tax.Mr. Rose
 moved, That the Standing Order of this House, of the 18th day of June 1811, "That all Petitions for Private Bills be presented within fourteen days after the first Friday in the next and every future session of parliament," might be read; and the same being read; Resolved—1. That this House will not receive any Petition for Private Bills after the 18th instant. 2. That no Private Bill be read the first time after the 8th of March. 3. That this House will not receive any Report of such Private Bill after the 10th of May.Lord Castlereagh
 pursuant to notice, moved to revive the regulations which had been adopted last session, respecting the Orders of the Day entered in the book, and the Notices for Motions. His lordship observed, that the business of the House had been much facilitated by setting apart two days in the week, in which the Orders of the Day should have the precedency of motions, without, however, depriving any hon. member of the right of calling the attention of the House to any subject he might think proper. The noble lord moved in consequence, "That in this present session of parliament all Orders of the Day, set down in the Order Book for Mondays and Fridays, shall be disposed of before the House will proceed upon any motions of which Notices shall be entered in the Order Book."Lord Castlereagh,
125 although he generally coincided with his hon. friend who was the mover of the present amendment, yet differed from him on this occasion. By receiving the report, the House by no means adopted the opinions contained in the Address; it was, therefore, unnecessary to postpone its consideration: the Address was a natural consequence of the Speech, and resembled a mere common
125Mr. Ponsonby,
 agreed entirely with the last speaker, but wished to correct a statement made by an hon. and learned gentleman, that the government of this country had at any period conceded the fight of the Americans to insist on the repeal of the Orders in Council.Lord Castlereagh
l129ll wished to make a few observations on what had fallen from some of the preceding speakers. An hon. gentleman had alluded to the expenditure of 1809. In that year, the bills drawn from the peninsula on this country amounted to 2,800,000l129llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
131130 wished to restate part of the opinions delivered by him on the preceding evening, which had been misconceived.
131130Mr. Canning
 conceived the statement he made on the former evening, with respect to our situation with America, could not have been misunderstood; it was neither more nor less than a state of unqualified warfare. As to a counter declaration, it would have been improper to issue it until an answer was returned by America to the repeal of the Orders in Council, and to the proposition which had been made to her.Lord Castlereagh
132 rose, and explained his reasons for pursuing the line he had done on the former evening. If he had been in the House in 1793, he would have voted for Mr. Fox's motion to send an ambassador to Paris, to prevent the breaking out of the war; and for this reason, because the whole question was, whether the government of France, as then constituted, was fit to be treated with; and as he was of opinion, that one independent state should not interfere with the government of another, he, of course, conceived that a treaty might be concluded with the provisional council which then ruled in France; and he would have confined himself to this opinion, that it was more easy to treat for the prevention of war than for peace. His hon. friend had stated, that there were persons who entertained an opinion, that no peace could be made with the present emperor of France. Now, if his hon. friend could shew him that such an idea was cherished by any of his Majesty's ministers, he pledged himself to vote with him for an Address to-morrow; because he thought the French emperor might be treated with as well as the head of any other government. His hon. friend had said, that the Address only proposed to the Prince Regent to examine whether a peace could be made on proper terms. This certainly was a mitigated character of the measure; but still it implied one of these two things—either that the ministers were not willing to enter into a negociation,
132Mr. Ponsonby
133 wished
133The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said he had a copy of it, and the right hon. gentleman should have it in a few hours.Mr. Whitbrcad
 begged to put a question to ministers, namely, at what time it was their intention to bring forward the subject of the renewal of the East India Company's Charter. This was a question of very general importance, and it was peculiarly desirable to those interested, that it should be known, whether it was or was not to be agitated previous to the Christmas recess.Mr. Canning
 said, it certainly was not the intention of government to bring forward the alluded to before Christmas. But, being a question of such importance, if government could come to an arrangement with the East India Company during the recess, it was their intention to bring forward the discussion at the earliest possible period after the recess.Lord Castlereagh
 defended the passage in the Speech of the Lords Commissioners alluded to by the hon. gentleman; and then went over nearly the same grounds, on the subject of peace with France, as he had before done.Mr. Canning
 defended the administration of lord Sidmouth, and denied, peremptorily, as far as his recollection permitted him, the authorised publication of any such pamphlet as that mentioned by the hon. gentleman.Mr. Bathurst
 warmly resisted the statement of the noble lord, that there was any irritation in the illustrious person at the head of the government towards the Amecan people. The Speech delivered only yesterday contradicted the assertion, for it breathed only a spirit of amity and conciliation.Mr. Stephen
124 resumed; he was satisfied that he had been mistaken, and that the noble lord did not mean what he had erroneously attributed to him. He would not enter into minute points, but he would assert in opposition to the noble lord, that an equal spirit of irritation did not prevail in the two governments; on the contrary, a friendly disposition had ever been displayed by the government of Great Britain. The statement of our wrongs was not intended to irritate, but to conciliate by conviction. For his own part, however much he might be interested in the discussion of the question of America, he entertained no personal feeling of irritation, but the Orders in Council he had defended with his tongue and his pen—and he could appeal to authorities across the Atlantic, for testimonies of his moderate and respectful language towards the government of America. Had the noble lord forgotten the language used to Mr. Erskine, when he, bearing concessions to them, was received with taunts, instead of the terms of amity and conciliation? Had he forgotten the treatment of Mr. Jackson, who was driven from the country without being permitted to wait for the instructions of his government? The noble lord must have a short memory, if he did not recollect that the government of America had declared, that they expected the treaty of Utrecht should be considered the maritime law of nations—a law that would render the navy of England useless, except to guard her own coast. When, by a fatal event, it became probable that the Orders in Council would be rescinded, did not America abandon that ground of complaint, and immediately
124Mr. Stephen
 deprecated the idea of making the miseries of the people the grounds of suing for peace, as it would debase the nation, raise the demands of the enemy, and abandon all the fruits of the struggle in which so much money and so much treasure had been lavished. Having said thus much, he trusted, on the other hand, that ministers would pay due regard to the, real sufferings of the people, and not let any opportunity escape by which they might procure a peace consistent with the honour, safety, and interests of the country.Mr. Stuart Wortley
116 Wright presented a Petition from the mayor bailiffs and commonalty of the city of Oxford, in common council assembled, setting forth,116Mr. Atkins
 intimated that, when the Petition should come to be taken into consideration, he would support the prayer of the Petitioners.Mr. Lockhart
120 observed, that this motion was couched in the same terms as that against which he had contended last session. He did not mean, in consequence, to renew in the present instance the arguments he had used on that occasion; but he would renew his protest against a novel measure, which, while it produced no manner of advantage, gave the ministers,
120Mr. Whitbread
128127126 wished to say a few words in reply to what had fallen from the hon. and learned member opposite, and also from the late member for Yorkshire, who had honoured him with the appellation of friend. The hon. and learned gentleman opposite had informed them, hat a day would be appointed for considering the American question; and as the hon. and learned gentleman had returned to that House unchanged, he would venture to predict that it would not be a short day. The hon. and learned gentleman had told them, that he had employed his pen and tongue in support of the Orders in Council: his pen he had employed before he entered parliament, and no doubt that pen had gained him his seat; and that he had used his tongue subsequently to his being in parliament, the House could abundantly testify. It appeared singular, however, that the hon. and learned gentleman, who spoke on every subject, should have been silent the day that his darling offspring, the Orders in Council, breathed their last; but so it was. He had heard that the marquis of Wellington had once been employed to prevent a certain right hon. doctor (Duigenan) from speaking; and as he had observed a noble lord Seated by the hon. and learned gentleman during the debate to which he alluded, he had no doubt that his employment was precisely similar to that of the noble marquis. He had been very anxious to hear the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but as often as he had attempted to rise, he had been prevented, first by
128127126Mr. Whitbread
 went over the arguments which he had before advanced in support of his Address; and in reference to his assertion that a spirit existed in this country, personally hostile to the French emperor, he instanced a pamphlet which was published by authority, during lord Sidmouth's administration, and sent to the different clergymen throughout England, to be read in their respective churches, filled with the grossest falsehoods, relative to Buonaparté; and he inferred that this spirit had not subsided, as one of the paragraphs in the Speech from the throne, at the conclusion of the last session, seemed to speak language somewhat similar.Mr. Whitbread
 said, it was shewn to him by the clergyman of a church in Bedfordshire; and the person who wrote it, [Mr. Cobbett] afterwards declared, that it was circulated throughout the country by order of government.Mr. Whitbread
121 rose and observed, that more time ought to be allowed for the consideration of the many important topics touched on in the Prince Regent's Speech, and especially the three wars in which we were engaged, the policy of which he was not yet prepared to approve. The Speech contained an omission, which was also, in his view of the subject, very important. The Prince Regent had expressed his reliance, that the House of Commons would furnish the supplies, but without at all adverting to the perilous state of our finances and commerce. That this was an unusual and ill-advised proceeding, he referred to some former Addresses to prove. Did the ministers know nothing of the state of the finances, had they withheld all know ledge of our commercial distresses from the Prince Regent, or did they deny the existence of such distresses? The House, he thought, would be better employed in inquiring into the financial state of the country than in voting the proposed Address; for it had been acknowledged by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and by a right hon. gentleman of great financial knowledge, who unfortunately was not now a member of the House,' (Mr. Tierney), that the present system could not be persevered in, and as a remedy the Chancellor of the Exchequer's nostrum was, a tax on capital!—How, in the present state of things, could they think of pledging themselves to the support of the war in the peninsula, on its present scale? What he knew was, that our expences last year were 121 millions; that notwithstanding the resolutions of the
121Mr. Creevey
lll said, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, as a matter of triumph, that 11,500,000lllMr. W. Smith
 deprecated any intention on the part of the House to call on the ministers to pledge themselves to seek peace, as such conduct would defeat the object it professed to have in view. It would perhaps create a popular cry in the country for peace, and raise the demand of those with whom we should have to negociate. He did not doubt that the ministers participated in the wishes of the people, as they regarded peace; there appeared no disinclination on the part of government to negociate, and as our prospects on the continent were now somewhat better than heretofore, he hoped those prospects would not be blasted by any premature solicitations on the part of the House. He knew of but one instance of a petition to the king to make peace, being carried in that House, and in that instance it had been productive of more evil than good.Mr. Wilberforce
117 presented a Petition from the London clergy, incorporated by the title of "The president and fellows of Sion College within the city of London," setting forth,117Sir William Curtis
 also protested against it as contrary to the usage of parliament, and as tending to cramp the proceedings of the House.Lord Milton
123 earnestly called upon the House to reflect upon the ruinous tendency of prosecuting the war with America. He believed that the two governments were decidedly hostile, while the
123Lord Milton
 explained, that he had been misunderstood; he had no such allusion as the hon. and learned gentleman had imputed to him.Lord Milton
162161160159158157hors de combat;156155154153152151 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given on a former day, to call the attention of the House to the services rendered to their country by that gallant officer, general the marquis of Wellington, and the brave army under his command during the last campaign in Spain, and particularly to those by which they had signalised themselves in the glorious and ever-memorable battle of Salamanca. He was sure he should forget his duty to the House, the country, and to that illustrious officer and his army, if on this occasion he were to introduce into the discussion any matter that might cause a controversial feeling respecting the policy of the war in the peninsula, and more especially if he were to offer any thing respecting the conduct of his Majesty's ministers in connection with the subject of the motion he was about to submit to the House. Any charges that might be preferred against them for the mode in which that war had been conducted, they would be happy to meet on a future day. On this, they hoped it would not be necessary, as it was their wish to bring forward nothing that might divide the feelings of the House and the public, and abstract them from that subject, on which all delighted
162161160159158157hors de combat;156155154153152151Lord Castlereagh
168167166165164163 professed himself to be incompetent to follow the details of military operations, so as to be able to offer an opinion upon them; indeed, he did not much like the agitation of such subjects in that House: but the noble lord had entered into a variety of subjects, and seemed disposed to call upon the House to sanction the whole conduct of the government respecting the conduct of the campaign, and to endeavour to shew that they had not been wanting in affording supplies
168167166165164163Sir Francis Burdett
 said, he was at all times ready to answer questions of fact; but he would not answer questions of opinion, more especially of his own opinion of the opinion of others. He begged in answer to the second question, to state distinctly, that no agent had ever been employed by government to purchase the coin of the realm; and further, that so late as yesterday, a large sum had been offered to him, which he had refused to purchase.—(A laugh.)The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that the observations of the hon. gentleman were not strictly applicable to the question before the House. It was not improbable, however, that he might hereafter be charged with some proposition of the sort.Lord Castlereagh
171nem. con. was disposed fully to agree with the House in returning Thanks to the marquis of Wellington for the services he had performed. As the noble mover had gone into many other subjects, however, the merits of which he was not disposed to admit, he rose for the purpose of expressing a hope, that, in according with the present vote, he might not be supposed at all to agree with many of the things which the noble lord had thrown out. These he considered perfectly open to the House to examine hereafter.171nem. con.Mr. Ponsonby
lss said he could not suffer the question of Supply to be adverted to without making some comments upon the present depreciated state of the paper currency of the country. The ill effects of the opinion recorded by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer during the last session of parliament, that paper was of equal value with gold, had now been fully experienced. He had heard that government themselves had become deniers in gold, and had actually been obliged to buy guineas at the rate of 27lssMr. Greevey
172 said he should have hoped, after the House had no longer ago than yesterday promised to
172The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he had endeavoured to look into the subject with all the attention in his power, but he was not prepared to present any digested plan upon the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
174 begged leave to state, in reply, that it was not to
174The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, whether it was true, that the Tellers of the Exchequer had offered to resign a third of their profits during the war, and whether other persons holding sinecures had made the same offer?Mr. Bennet
 replied, that the marquisses of Buckingham and Camden had made that liberal and patriotic offer, but he was not aware that any other persons had done so.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
170 thought it would be no more than proper that some further pecuniary provision should be made for the marquis of Wellington. If any delicacy was felt in these times of distress to apply to the public for this remuneration for the brilliant services which had been achieved, the purpose might be answered, as in the case of the duke of Marlborough, by the grant of some royal manor. He
170Mr. Cochrane Johnstone
 asked whether it was the intention of ministers to adopt any economical plan of reform, and retrenchment of expenditure, in consequence of the Reports of the different Committees, which were then on their table; if not, he should take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to those Reports.Mr. H. Martin
 wished the Chancellor of the Exchequer to inform him of the amount of the gold offered to him, and whether it was the coin of the realm, and also what was the price. He thought the seller must be a very clumsy fellow to attempt to draw the Chancellor of the Exchequer into a breach of the law of the land—to endeavour to persuade him to an act which would subject him to imprisonment, if not to transportation. Certainly the right hon. gentleman had the Attorney General to protect him—(A laugh).Mr. Whitbread
173 wished to correct the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on one point. His hon. friend by his amendment did not refuse supplies; he only wished the House to pledge itself to an early consideration of the depreciated state of the paper currency. His principal object in rising, however, was to remind the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he had forgotten to answer two questions put by his hon. friend; first, what was his opinion as to the value of the Bank-note, compared with the gold coin of the realm? and, secondly, whether any agents were employed by government to purchase the said coin? If so, he thought it was an act of flagrant injustice to commence state prosecutions against individuals, for crimes such as the state itself committed. He protested
173Mr. Whitbread
169 said, he could not deny himself the opportunity which was now afforded him of expressing his admiration of the truly splendid victory of Salamanca—a victory which, while it placed the bravery of the British troops in a most prominent point of view, exhibited the transcendent military talents of their commander, the most noble the marquis of Wellington, in their true colours. Never was more consummate generalship evinced—never did the conduct of any man excite more deservedly the approbation of his countrymen. It was not his intention to go into the history of the campaign, which had already been so ably detailed by the noble lord; he would content himself, therefore, by declaring his hearty assent to the Vote of Thanks to the marquis of Wellington, for the brilliant victory gained by him over the French forces on the 22d of July last, to which he believed there was no man, either within or without those walls, would object.—"Thank God," said the hon. baronet, "we have committed our army to the care of a man of cool and deliberate judgment, one who is not fool-hardy, and who knows when he ought to go forward, and when he ought to go backward. He is not a rash man, who for the sake of a momentary advantage would sacrifice his army, but who, with that wisdom indicative of a great mind, waits but for an opportunity to annihilate the whole body of the enemy. After all the actions that have taken place—after all the blood that has been spilt, it would be degrading to the name of Great Britain and of Ireland, to solicit peace. Suppose a bully attacked a Briton or an Irishman, and that he was repelled by their bravery, would it become them, after they had gloriously beaten him off, to sue for peace? The thought was ridiculous—and equally ridiculous would it be to think of suing for peace, at this time, from that tyrant, that
169Sir Frederick Flood
 did not mean to support the amendment of his hon. friend. He concurred in opinion with him, that the subject required a very serious discussion, and that it was the peculiar province of the House to guard the public purse. He was surprised, however, at the observation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the House had pledged itself yesterday to the Prince Regent, to grant the necessary supplies: the noble lord thought that it was perfectly understood that the Address did not pledge the House to any thing.Lord Milton
RPThe Prince Regent recommends, therefore, to the House of Commons the adoption of such measures as may be necessary for the accomplishment of this most important object. G. RP180"The Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, having taken into his consideration the eminent and signal services performed by general the marquis of Wellington on so many occasions, and particularly in the glorious battle of Salamanca, is desirous of bestowing such a mark of national munificence on general the marquis of Wellington as may enable him to sustain the high honours which his Royal Highness has
180RP"GEORGE, RP presented the following Message from the Prince Regent:
RPThe Prince Regent recommends, therefore, to the House of Commons the adoption of such measures as may be necessary for the accomplishment of this most important object. G. RP180"The Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, having taken into his consideration the eminent and signal services performed by general the marquis of Wellington on so many occasions, and particularly in the glorious battle of Salamanca, is desirous of bestowing such a mark of national munificence on general the marquis of Wellington as may enable him to sustain the high honours which his Royal Highness has
180RP"GEORGE, RPLord Castlereagh
Nolumus Leges Angliœ mutari188pro hae vice presented a Petition from the archdeacon and clergy of the archdeaconry and county of Leicester, setting forth,Nolumus Leges Angliœ mutari188pro hae viceMr. Lee Keck
 remarked, that as no objection was made to the production of the papers moved for by the hon. gentleman near him, whatever foundation there might be for the apprehension of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, would be a subject better fitted for discussion on some future day when these papers might be on the table of the House.Lord Castlereagh
 wished to know whether or not, in spite of our efforts to prevent it, the Portuguese and Spaniards did not carry on a traffic for slaves with the British colonies—a traffic composed of piracy and oppression? He wished also to make another inquiry connected with this interesting subject. We had a chain of forts in Africa, which, during the existence of the Slave Trade, were used as depots for slaves. He was positively informed, that during last summer, the governors of some of these forts actually supplied no less than 47 Portuguese vessels with slaves. Had steps been taken by government to put an end to this shameful abuse?Mr. Bennet
200 expressed his regret at not being able at that moment completely to satisfy the hon. gentleman's enquiries. He could assure him, however, that the exertions of his Majesty's government had been used most sincerely to prevail upon those countries with which they had any influence to concur in terminating this abominable traffic. He trusted that these countries were inclined to adopt the measures suggested to them for
200Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the forts mentioned by the hon. gentleman were under consideration at the time of Mr. Perceval's death, but the change of government, which followed upon that event, prevented, as yet, any further consideration of the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know whether the government had received any communication respecting the breach of the Abolition Act by the governors of any of these forts?Mr. Bennet
l206205l204203202 said, that in calling the attention of the House to the Message which his Royal Highness had been graciously pleased to lay before them, he might, he believed, feel and express a confidence that, at least upon the principle of the Message, there could exist but little, if any variety of opinion. There was, he was convinced, no person who then heard him, that could feel any unwillingness to repay the services of so gallant and so distinguished an officer as the marquis of Wellington, with every title of honour that the crown could confer, and every pecuniary reward the country could afford to bestow. Whatever difficulty there might exist in the calculation of what was due to his services, and what was due to the nation; whatever might be the limits they would feel it necessary to impose upon the principle of the Message, and the generosity that dictated it, upon the claims of
l206205l204203202Lord Castlereagh
209208207 said, that however strong the claims of lord Wellington might be, he could not think that they were much advanced by the advocacy of the noble lord or of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. The noble lord had dwelt, with much satisfaction, on the peculiar advantages and blessings of our happy constitution, under which such opportunities were afforded of rewarding merit; but before this praise was entirely acquiesced in, there were two considerations which presented themselves to those who were appointed the guardians of the pub-
209208207Sir Francis Burdett
l*l210 observed, that though the hon. baronet had professed his ignorance of military affairs, he had nevertheless dealt with no sparing hand in military censures. The hon. baronet's opinions were so erroneous, that he could not possibly conceive how he had formed them, or where he had procured his information. He had talked indeed of military authorities, but without naming them, and he was aware that it would be useless to press the hon. baronet on that head. He had asserted that Ciudad Rodrigo had been stormed before a breach had been effected; the contrary was notorious; a breach had been first effected, and that breach, although most gallantly defended, was stormed afterwards; nor did he think that all the anonymous military authorities, quoted by the hon. baronet, could point out to him any other way of taking a town. At Badajoz two breaches had been effected, and it was owing to the attention of the enemy being diverted by a front attack on those very breaches, that general Picton succeeded in converting his false attack on the castle into a real one—a case not unfrequent in war, and always within the calculations of the general, as was the case with the marquis of Wellington. The same mistake seemed as if fatally to follow the hon. baronet when talking of the attack on Burgos, for no less than five breaches had been effected in that fortress, by sapping and mining. It was true the storming did not succeed, because the place was most bravely and ably defended; indeed such a resistance seldom was exhibited; but in the failure of that enterprize, of which he never entertained any sanguine hopes, he was at a loss to discover how lord Wellington was to blame. The hon. gentleman next adverted to the picture drawn of lord Wellington's retreat by the hon. baronet, at which he could not sufficiently express his astonishment. Where could the hon.
l*l210Mr. Robinson
 expressed his regret, that instead of internal warfare, a system of external annoyance was not adopted, which, he contended, would be productive of the greatest advantages to the country, and would not only be more serviceable to the cause of Russia, but would enable government to dictate terms of peace to Buonaparté. This the noble lord thought so plain, as to preclude the necessity of demonstration. He concluded by assenting to the motion, as he was convinced that lord Wellington had done every thing which he could possibly have done, under all the circumstances in which he was placed.Lord Cochrane
l217Expectation sits in the air And hides a sword from hilt unto the point, With crowns, imperial crowns and coronets—216 declared, that he should deem it an encroachment upon the time and a waste of the attention of the House, if after the opinions expressed and the military criticisms delivered on this occasion, he were to attempt to do more than to state how fully he participated in the admiration felt at lord Wellington's achievements, and in a sense of the justness of that remuneration which had been proposed. He was inclined to concur most cordially with the proposition, not only on those grounds which had been adverted to, particularly by an hon. gentleman (Mr. Protheroe) who formed one example of the acquisitions which the new parliament had made, but on others of a more general nature. He concurred in it from a feeling, that we had within the last few years raised ourselves to the same equality at land, more than which we had possessed at sea, and that to the individual to whom we owed this augmentation of glory and advantage, no remuneration could be too
l217Expectation sits in the air And hides a sword from hilt unto the point, With crowns, imperial crowns and coronets—216Mr. Canning
 observed, that matter would come to be considered in the Bill. It was the wish of ministers that the grant should be made on the most liberal principles.Lord Castlereagh
199 said, he did not rise to oppose the motion, but he could not refrain from saying that if an excuse were wanting for that sort of evasion of the Abolition Bill, of which the honourable member complained, it was to be found in that system of recruiting in Africa which had been lately established under the authority of government for the purpose of filling up the ranks of the Black regiments in the West Indies; a system which, while it had the effect of reviving, nay and of perpetuating all the evils of a trade which had been characterised as inhuman and unjust, had, at the same time, the effect of inducing in the eyes of Europe, a doubt of the sincerity and good faith of our intentions on the great question of the abolition of that trade, and at a time, too, when as his Majesty's ministers had before informed the House, they were using their utmost endeavours to effect a general
199Mr. Browne
212 in a maiden speech, said he should not follow the noble lord, or the hon. baronet, through the military details into which they had entered; but he must say, that he thought the hon. baronet had been guilty of the indiscretion which he unfoundedly charged on the marquis of Wellington—he had made an attack where there was no breach. Had the hon. baronet considered the subject with more deliberation, he must have seen, that there might be such a thing as a bold advance without rashness, and a skilful retreat without disgrace. He thought the House should cheerfully agree to the Message of the Prince Regent. Even posthumous honours were useful, and were paid to the immortal lord Nelson, as a stimulus to naval exertion: but with how much greater satisfaction should we be struck, if we could see the Nelson of the army,—the man whose name, like his, might become the common appellative of a hero,—living among us, and reaping the honours due to his services, in the munifificence, the admiration, and affection of his countrymen? He hoped that nothing would interfere to detract from that munificence, and to diminish that admiring affection. The hon. baronet had alluded to the distresses of the country; but, although he thought himself as well acquainted with them, at least with the mercantile distresses, as the hon. baronet, he should not enter on the topic at present, as a fitter time would by and bye occur for that discussion: he felt as deeply for them, and wished as ardently to relieve them, as any of those persons who most indulged in lamentations over them; yet he
212Mr. Protheroe,
 said, there had been one communication to that effect, made to the naval commander upon that station, but upon investigation it was found to have been groundless.Mr. Goulburn
l215214213 had had the misfortune to differ heretofore with a majority of the House, both with respect to the merits and services of lord Wellington, and the remuneration which was bestowed upon them. With respect, however, to the grant which was now proposed, it met with his entire approbation. By acceding to this vote, he did not conceive that he was expressing any opinion with respect to the situation of things in Spain: he at present wished to be considered as having consented to the vote merely in consideration of lord Wellington's own merits. If he had differed in opinion with others when the thanks of the House were asked for lord Wellington after the battle of Talavera, it was not because he did not think that the battle of Talavera was a great affair, but because he thought that lord Wellington had got his army into a great scrape, and that his army had fought bravely and extricated him. But he did not wish now to repeat what he had thought or said on former occasions. He
l215214213Mr. Whitbread
 did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion. In all military cases, when a reward was asked, proper attention should be paid in proportioning it to the quantity of forces by which the achievement had been performed; but the success of the marquis of Wellington, especially considering the means he had at his disposal, had far surpassed the most sanguine expectations. Considering the price of landed property, he did not conceive the present grant as too considerable, and when he reflected that the marquis of Wellington's services were warm in the minds of every one he even thought that the House might have gone farther.Mr. Whitshed Keene
201 proceeded to move for further papers connected with the same subject. He confessed that he had listened to the speech of the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Browne) with some disquiet, as, in the early part of it, there seemed an intimation similar to that which had so frequently been urged in parliament against the abolition itself, namely, that the existence of an enormity in one place justified the practice of an enormity in another. This disquiet, however, was removed by the conclusion of the hon. gentleman's observations. With respect to the scheme of enlisting Africans on the coast, to fill up the black corps in the West Indies, he confessed that he was acquainted with the original intention of carrying that scheme into effect, and that he thought it was accompanied by guards sufficient to prevent it from being abused. How far these guards had actually turned out to be adequate to their object, was certainly a question of considerable importance; and one which ought to be investigated deliberately, and not incidentally. But at any rate, it appeared to him that all idea of compulsion—of slavery—was wholly out of the question.—With respect to the conduct of our navy on the African station, it had been such as reflected upon it the highest credit. Even the common sailors had refused to share the wages of iniquity; in one case in particular, in which a number of
201Mr. Wilberforce
 observing that there had been recently published in the daily prints some circumstances of a nature calculated to excite the attention and anxiety of all those who felt an interest in the complete accomplishment of that most important object, the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and that it was highly advisable that the most satisfactory information relative to these circumstances should be laid before parliament, moved "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, copies of all communications from the governor of the Cape of Good Hope, and from the governor of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, received since the capture of those settlements respectively, so far as they relate to the carrying on of the Slave Trade in those settlements, or in any of the neighbouring islands."Mr. Wilberforce,
211** was sorry that the defalcation in the revenue, during the two
211**Sir Frederick Flood
224 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the trustees of Estates given for Charitable
224Mr. Lock-hart
225 moved the order of the day, for the second reading of the Bill to continue an Act of the last session of parliament, for making more effectual provision for preventing the current Gold Coin of the realm from being paid or accepted for a greater value than the current value of such coin; for preventing any note or bill of the governor and company of the Bank of England, or of the governor and company of the Bank of Ireland, from being received for any smaller sum than
225The Chancellor of the Exchequer
230229 said, he had no intention of preserving any disrespectful silence on a question of such great magnitude; but he had been desirous of hearing to what particular view of it the observations of members might be directed before he answered any general or partial objections. He was apprehensive, otherwise, of being drawn into a prolixity which might not only be tedious, but unnecessary, after the long and reiterated discussions which this subject had undergone. He now saw, that the favourite view taken was, the practical one, and to this, therefore, he should chiefly confine himself. The question of depreciation had been entertained, he wished the House to remember, at a period considerably earlier than the appointment of the Bullion Committee. In 1807 it had been argued in the other House of Parliament by lord King, and the same arguments then urged by him, were afterwards brought forward more amply by the Bullion Committee. In the year 1811 the same noble person had thought proper to adopt a proceeding which made it appear to parliament necessary to pass that act which it was the object of the present Bill to renew. It was not his desire to attribute to that noble individual any unworthy motive for this conduct; on the contrary, his persuasion was, that the noble lord was only desirous of confuting him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and of furnishing a practical example of the correctness of his own
230229The Chancellor of the Exchequer
232 expressed his surprise at some of the positions of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he was not less surprised at the conduct of the House, which, in direct contradiction to its own Resolution, had passed the present Bill, to prevent the effect of that inequality which the Resolution of the House went to deny. The Resolution asserted that bank notes and guineas were in equal public estimation, and perfectly equivalent; but if so, why did landlords demand payment of their rents in gold, and if the pretended equivalency did exist, why pass an act to force the landlord to receive paper? The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had told the House that bank notes were equivalent to gold, as applicable to all lawful purposes. Was the payment of rent a lawful purpose? And if paper was equal to gold, why pass a law to guard the tenant against the landlord's demand for gold? How the right hon. gentleman or the House could be persuaded to entertain such opinions, he could not divine; and yet the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer continued to tell the House that an equivalency still existed. Did that equivalency exist when the bank note was at what he called a depreciation of 5 percent.? and did that equivalency remain unaltered, notwithstanding the depreciation had increased to 15, 20, and even 30 percent.? Could the right hon. gentleman find any one who would give him a guinea for a pound note and a shilling? Could he go into a market and purchase as much of a commodity with a pound note and a shilling, as with a guinea? If that equivalency still existed, why did we find such difficulty in obtaining guineas? Was any such difficulty experienced previously to the depreciation of paper? No; and the present difficulty was easily accounted for, because the Resolution of the House was not true. The right hon. gentleman referred the present scarcity and high price of gold, to the non-importation of bullion from America; but would this apply to England alone? Would it not affect France, and all Europe? Would the right hon. gentleman say that gold was as scarce and as dear in France? Would he assert that the paper circulating in that country was at a discount of 35 per cent.? He told the House that a bank note was equal to a guinea for all lawful purposes, but that it was not lawful to melt guineas; would the right hon. gentleman but in a bank note to prove
232Mr. Ponsonby
 did not mean to discuss the principle of the Bill, but should suggest a course which he conceived it would be advisable to pursue. He thought that it would be the best way to suffer the Bill to pass, since ministers represented it to be of urgent necessity; but it would be better that it should be a short Bill renewing the present Bill for three or four months, so that after the recess the House might have full time to acquire the information necessary to the discussion of this important question in all its bearings. He thought the question of local tokens, which had been mentioned, was one which required much consideration. If the Course he had proposed should meet the views of the House, he hoped his hon. friend would have no objection to withdraw his amendment.Lord Folkestone
 said, that several branches of the present question must remain for discussion on some future occasion, but he was not aware of any circumstances which could possibly happen within the limited period which had been mentioned that could tend to render the present measure unnecessary.Lord Castlreagh
 denied most solemnly, as he had done on a former night, that agents were employed, either directly or indirectly, by government, to purchase guineas. The man alluded to, and who had offered 27,000 for sale, was not prosecuted, because it was supposed he had no criminal intentions. The last price paid by government for bills to the continent was 67 pence per milrea.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
240239 was unwilling to allow the motion to go to a division without shortly stating the reasons that induced him to abstain from voting against a bill, the general principle of which was, without qualification, in direct opposition to all those long-established maxims of political economy, the soundness of which, until the last few years, no man in that House or in the country had ventured to question. Every measure brought before the legislature might be considered in two points of view; the one with reference to the general and abstract principle of right or expediency, the other with reference to any system already established, from which the measure might be said necessarily to emanate. It was in that last point of view, as proceeding from the principle adopted by the House after mature deliberation—a principle the adoption of which he had resisted to the best of his power—that he felt bound to acquiesce in the Bill. He had always contended, that the steps which had been subsequently taken must be the necessary consequences of the first step—that memorable resolution to which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had persuaded the House to come, namely, that the paper currency and the gold coin of the realm were, in public estimation, of equal value. On that occasion he had taken the liberty of stating, that the principle of the resolution was proposed in spite of individual knowledge and public notoriety, and that it was adopted by the House of Commons of the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland at a moment when it was perfectly known, that in one part of that united kingdom at least, guineas were publicly sold at a premium. He had at that time foretold the inevitable consequence of passing such a resolution in the teeth of the fact; and accordingly it so happened, that that which in May was declared to be the operation of public opinion, was in July made to be the operation of the law; the pains and penalties of which were called in, to overcome the obstinacy Of those who were not to be persuaded into conviction. He had at that time told the right hon. gentleman, that in all cases in which an attempt was made to force public opinion by the authority of the legislature, recurrence must ultimately be had to legal means, land to the secular arm of power. He heartily wished that the question were now as open as it was before the adoption of the resolution to which he had alluded. The proposed
240239Mr. Canning
234 as a member of the Bullion Committee, whose conduct and report had been so severely stigmatized, felt it necessary to say a few words in defence of that body. It ought to have been recollected by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer that at the time the committee recommended to the House that the Bank should be compelled to renew cash payments in two years, the country was by no means in the situation in which it was now placed. Our commodities were not then excluded from the continent by that regular system which at present prevailed, and the balance of trade consequently on all articles was not so much against us. The main question with regard to the Bill now under consideration was, whether the issue of bank paper did or did not tend to influence the exchange? And thinking that
234Mr. H. Thornton,
 expressed is decided opinion, that the present state of our circulating medium was not owing to the conduct of ministers, or of any other set of men; but to the growing commerce of the country, which the whole metallic currency of the world would have been insufficient to supply; and he earnestly wished that this fact were distinctly understood throughout the country.Mr. Alderman Atkins
 read a letter from a friend in the country, in which the writer recommended strongly the passing of the Bill before the House, in order to save the people in his neighbourhood from the most serious loss, if not from ruin.Mr. Butterworth
237s236 was sincerely sorry for the cause which prevented the hon. gentleman, who was a great authority on these subjects, from delivering his sentiments on the present occasion, which appeared the regular period for discussing the principle of the Bill. He certainly thought that there was something in this Bill so inconsistent with the resolutions upon which it was founded, that he thought the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the House, should be somewhat ashamed of first resolving that gold and paper were equal in public estimation, and then passing a law to force the public to act as if they were really of equal value in their estimation. He certainly considered that the act which had been passed
237s236Mr. Whitbread
 moved, that the 2d and 3d of the Resolutions which, upon the 14th of May 1811, were reported from the Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider further of the Report which, upon the 8th of June 1810, was made from the Select Committee appointed to enquire into the high price of Gold Bullion, and which were then agreed to by the House.Mr. Whitbread
228 said, he was extremely anxious to hear what the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had to say on the present occasion. The hon. gentleman then objected to two parts of the Bill; first, that which in pursuance of the ridiculous resolution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, made the bank paper equal to gold; and second, to that part,
228Mr. Brand
 wished to know, before the question was put, whether ministers would accede to the proposal of his noble friend, and agree to have the Bill passed for a short period?Mr. Creevey
227dslslsl226dslsl said, that it was impossible for him to allow this Bill to be read a second time without entering his protest against it, viewing it as he did, as a Bill of the greatest atrocity. (Cries of hear, and a laugh.) He repeated the term atrocity, for he knew of none which was more applicable to it. He was sure the House would be unwilling to enter into a lengthened discussion on the Bullion Question, but he only wished to state shortly his objections to this fatal Bill, which originated out of the Report of the Bullion Committee, who had been appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the causes of the high price of gold. That Committee stated that the market price was 4227dslslsl226dslslMr. Creevey
235 said, he had supported the measure on former occasions, as the only means to resist the military despotism with which we were threatened. It was perhaps paying dear, but not too dear, for salvation. As long as the spirit of the constitution should survive, this
235Mr. Whitshed Keene
 expressed his regret, that he was prevented by indisposition from delivering his sentiments on the important question before the House.Mr. Huskisson
233dss rose principally in consequence of an allusion made by the right hon. gentleman who spoke last to the insufficient issue of tokens by the Bank of England. It was true that the company had deemed it expedient to discontinue the issue of tokens to a certain extent to private bankers, from a fear that the supply would not be adequate to the demand: large as the sum might appear, it could be proved by incontrovertible testimony, that within the last fifteen months no less than nearly two millions sterling had been delivered from the Bank in tokens of 3233dssMr. Manning
 said, he wished it to be passed only for a few months, in order that the House might have time to give sufficient consideration to the measure. He was altogether against the renewal of this Bill, and thought what had passed in the debate last night sufficient to lead him to that opinion. Of all the speakers last night, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the only one who spoke in praise of the Bill. Whilst several who voted for it said that they did so not from any approbation of its principle, but under the influence of various temporary circumstances. He had many objections to the Bill, and said, that the legislature ought to pass laws for the prevention, not for the production and multiplication of crimes. This Bill increased the temptation to crime, drove all our gold and silver out of the market, and, by thus increasing their value as compared with Bank of England notes, promoted the buying and selling of guineas. The persons who had been punished under this Bill being mostly ignorant, and therefore unable to understand, or perhaps to read the act, had been seduced and entrapped. But why had not a late wholesale offender, the person who offered 27,000 guineas to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and who could not be ignorant of the provisions of the act, why had he not been brought to justice? It might be even said, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer neglected his duty to the public (for gold was much wanted for the public service) in not accepting of the offer; for he had it in his power to pay for the sum in country bank notes, by which means he could have evaded the provisions of the Bill.Lord Folkestone
l244 stated his object to be the proposition of a tax
l244The Chancellor of the Exchequer
250249 rose and addressed the House nearly as follows:—Sir; the question to which I am about to call the attention of the House appears to me one of too much importance to be for a moment withheld from its consideration. I evinced my sense of this importance by taking the earliest day possible to give notice of a motion with respect to it, and I should have certainly brought it forward on that day if I had consulted only my own feelings; but an application having
250249Lord Folkestone
 proceeded. I am sorry I have not been fortunate enough to make myself understood to the noble lord; but to be as plain as I can, my object is to know, whether the Order be intended to give to the foreign officers foisted into our service (I do not use the expression in an invidious sense) all the advantages enjoyed by British officers? Are they, by virtue of it, to be rendered not removable from the service at a particular time? Are they to be entitled to half pay?Lord Folkestone
254253252 resumed. If that be the case, then the law is altogether nugatory; it is a mere nothing: but the terms in which it is couched are manifestly inconsistent with the explanation given by the noble lord. As I before stated, the Order could not, if it were meant to do so, impugn the Act of Settlement, and overstep that act by which the German Legion was embodied; but unquestionably the manner in which it was worded was extremely repugnant to the spirit of that act; and for this, since the noble lord has dissipated my apprehensions of an injury to the constitution being meditated, I can only account by supposing, that the dictionary referred to at the War-office affords a greater variety of meanings to ordinary terms than any thesaurus of the language in common use. According to the explanation given by the noble lord, it might be supposed, that the ministers at the War-office considered the meaning of the words temporary and permanent to be the same, but until the War-office could transform the English language as they had transformed the English army, the true sense would be perfectly obvious to every man who had sense to comprehend any thing. It appears, then, Sir, by his statement, that here is an advantage and no advantage; a boon is granted to the officers of the German Legion, and the reason assigned for it is, their distinguished and meritorious conduct when brought to act against the enemy.—"In consideration," says the Gazette, "of the King's German Legion having so frequently distinguished themselves against the enemy, particularly in the recent battle of Salamanca!"—And this is certainly what would justify a boon of no ordinary magnitude; yet when this mighty reward comes to be examined it turns out to be one of a most unsubstantial nature; one with which, if the officers of the German Legion be satisfied, we cannot sufficiently admire their moderation. The noble lord would answer, perhaps, with equal intelligibility, that this was meant as a reward for meritorious service, but what boon was it to tell a man that something should be bestowed upon him, which, from a positive enactment, could never be realized? The Order states, that his Royal Highness,
254253252Lord Folkestone
261260 objected especially to the latter part of the noble lord's speech, and expressed a confident hope that, in no case, the House would be led indirectly to express an opinion upon a measure totally unconnected with the motion before them. He would put it to the candour of the House, and to that of the hon. gentlemen opposite themselves, whether or no the noble mover had said? single word as to the expediency of employing foreign troops in the British service? But the noble lord who spoke last had thought proper to bring forth arguments against a speech delivered in the last session of parliament, and of which he was sure not twenty members present had heard one word. He had listened with the greatest pleasure to the explanation given by the noble lord, as it proved that no unconstitutional measure had been adopted, and he was ready to join in the praises bestowed on the German Legion, which he thought they deserved; but, at the same time, he must observe, that the noble mover was not the only one who had mistaken the meaning of the Order which was the object of the motion; he was sure, on the contrary, that the whole country, as well as himself, had understood it as giving to the Germans in our service permanent rank in the British
261260Mr. Ponsonby
 in consequence of the philippic which the noble Secretary at War had uttered against those who favoured the motion, thought it necessary to guard himself against the imputation of cherishing any undue prejudices against the German Legion, or of being committed by his vote in support of his noble friend's motion upon the general question as to the policy of employing foreign troops.Sir H. Mildmay,
264263 could not possibly consent to give a silent vote when the merits of his fellow-soldiers were under discussion. He bore testimony to the gallantry of the German Legion, whose services he had witnessed on various occasions in the peninsula. Indeed, so highly did lord Wellington, the illustrious general who commands our armies on the peninsula, and whose conduct was the theme of universal applause, so highly
264263The Hon. General Stewart
266265 professed that his mind was inexpressibly relieved by the explanation which the noble Secretary at War had given of an Order, which, until that hour, he certainly understood, in common with the noble mover and the right hon. gentleman opposite, in common with the public, and, as it now appeared, in common even with one of the gallant leaders oft that army with which the German Legion was immediately connected, to import no less than the communication of permanent rank to the officers of that Legion, in the sense in which that term was usually interpreted in the British army. The import of that Order seemed to have been nothing less than permanent rank to the officers of the German Legion. He must say again, that his mind was inexpressibly relieved by that explanation, because it proved, that in fact, the law and the constitution had not been violated. It gave him great satisfaction to learn that the
266265Mr. Canning
 rose in reply. He said that if he was pleased at some things which he had heard that night, he was beyond measure ashamed at other things which he had heard. When he had seen our young men and officers adopting German dresses, and Germanizing themselves as much as possible, undertaking every thing German, and so attached to the fashion of the day as in deference to it to cast off every thing English, he felt disgust at it; but when he now heard the German soldiers preferred to the British from a high authority, he felt the greatest pain. When a gallant general said that they were better than the British—Lord Folkestone
 rose to order, and said, he had never made such an assertion. He had only spoken of one corps, the first Hussars, whom he stated as the admiration of the army.General Stewart
270269268 continued. He understood him distinctly to have spoken of other military departments also, in which he had given the preference to the Germans. The compliment to the Germans he considered rather extravagant; but the gallant general having denied the words imputed to him, he should relinquish that topic, and proceed to advert to the speech of the noble Secretary at War, who had taken occasion this night to reply to statements and arguments which he had brought before the last parliament. But the reply of the noble Secretary he felt to be quite ineffective, first, as to the statement that baron Linsingen commanded the eastern district; he maintained that it was correctly true, that this baron, as commander of the district, ordered out the garrison of Ipswich (among which garrison were some English militia), in order to review it, and that he had done several other acts in the quality of commander of the district. But baron Linsingen was not the only foreign officer in such a situation, for there were in fact four or five other foreigners invested with such commands. Thus was the Act of Settlement outraged; but it had become a habit with certain persons to treat acts of parliament: with evasion and indifference, as in the present instance, where though the law expressly prohibited such employment of these foreign officers, and stated that they were only to be allowed commands in their own particular corps, "inasmuch as they could best drill them, from being acquainted with their language and manners," yet not the slightest regard was paid to this wholesome constitutional provision. According to the act originally constituting the German Legion, the ground alleged for appointing German officers, was, that from their acquaintance with the German language and manners they were best fitted to discipline and command such corps; but what ground of utility or expediency could be alleged for appointing such officers to command in the British army? Here the Act of Settlement was violated without any thing like a plea; but so were other acts also. For example, according to the act relating to the constitution of the 60th regiment, not one of that corps was ever to serve out of America.
270269268Lord Folkestone
 maintained, that he had founded his estimate upon that very comparison which he was charged with not having made.Lord Folkestone
 wished to slate, in reference to what had been said of the comparative merits of British and German officers, that live of the generals who had received thanks for their conduct at the battle of Salamanca, belonged to the German Legion.Mr. Cochrane Johnstone
271 assured the House, that after the arguments which had been advanced, and the explanation which had been given, he should not trouble them at any length. He paid a compliment to the generous and liberal sentiments expressed by a gallant general (Stewart), on the eminent services and distinguished bravery of the German troops employed in Spain. The mutual enthusiasm and unlimited confidence excited in the officers of the army, by the exploits of others serving with them, ought, however, to increase, instead of lessening the jealousy with which we ought to guard against the incorporation of foreign troops with our own. This was not a military question, nor one in which we were to appeal to the sentiments of the army. It was a constitutional question, on which the members of that House were to decide, as the guardians of the rights and civil liberties of the country. What he had risen for, was to direct the
271Mr. Whitbread
 in reply to an observation from the gallant officer, which observation seemed peculiarly addressed to him, thought it necessary to state that his reason for deprecating the grant of a military command to any foreigners at home, although such foreigners as the gallant officer mentioned were invested with high command abroad, was simply this: that in the one case the command was in Portugal, while in the other it was in England, where, according to the constitutional precept and established policy, foreigners were excluded from any such authority.Lord Milton,
 repeated his persuasion, that baron Linsingen had for some time actually commanded the eastern district, in the absence of lord Chatham.Lord Milton
262 deprecated the employment of foreign officers in the manner in which he understood they had in some instances been employed, and wished to ask the noble Secretary at War a question. If he understood the noble lord rightly, he had stated, that the German officers, while they enjoyed simply a temporary rank, were only empowered to command the corps to which they belonged. But had not baron Linsingen been in the command of a district in this country, and had he not, in consequence, had English militia regiments under his orders? The noble lord might allow that this was improper before the issuing of the Order in question; but did the issuing of that Order render it proper? For his part, he thought such a power would be improper under any circumstances; and here he wished to guard himself against the imputation of vulgar prejudices, being supposed to consider the original employment of the persons composing the German Legion as wrong. They came to this country under peculiar circumstances, and although he could not agree with the noble lord in looking at them as subjects of the king of England, which they were not nor ever had been, but must regard
262Lord Milton
 said, the noble lord had completely misconceived him. Although temporary rank in the British army in general did not give command in other corps, yet by a particular article in the articles of war, arising out of the act by which they were originally embodied, the officers of the German Legion were rendered as competent to such command, as if they had possessed permanent rank. It appeared, therefore, that the recent Order did not, as the noble lord imagined, give to the officers of the German Legion a power which they did not before possess. With regard to the general alluded to, the truth was, that he never did command a district; there was, however, nothing in the law of the land to prevent it.Lord Palmerston
259258257256255 said, if the laconic explanation he had been permitted to give, had so far altered the view which the noble lord had taken of the subject, as to cause him to vary, in a considerable degree, the course he at first intended to pursue, he could not help flattering himself, that if he had been suffered to answer the noble lord's speech, before he made it, or rather, to have explained the terms, of the Order, he might have spared him some trouble, though the House would have been thereby deprived of the advantage of listening to his eloquence and his humour. This speech was entirely grounded upon misconception. He apprehended the difference between him and the noble lord arose from a source which often occasioned disagreement—it proceeded from a mere dissimilarity of opinion as to the meaning of certain words, which could very readily be rectified. Here there was a misconception of the word 'permanent,' not unnatural with those who were not acquainted with the technical terms of the British army, a knowledge of which was sufficient to settle the
259258257256255Lord Palmerston
251 They are not meant to have any privileges or advantages in the service which may militate against the law. It was neither the intention, nor
251Lord Palmerston.
 observed, that upon lord Chatham's retirement from the command of the district alluded to, another British officer was immediately appointed to succeed him. Baron Linsingen had commanded merely the depot of the German Legion.Lord Palmerston
 answered upon the authority of general Dekin, who was the senior Geman officer in this country. He also in explanation contended that he had not expressed any contempt of the Act of Settlement. The command was temporary, and was founded on the Article of War, applicable to the German Legion, by which these officers took precedence. He also saw nothing unconstitutional in the assumption of the command of a district by baron Linsingen, as it must have devolved upon him in the absence of lord Chatham, and was perfectly agreeable to the Article of War to which he had alluded. The noble lord appeared to have totally mistaken the nature of the reference to the Gazettes; for the proper, and in fact, the only way to make the reference was, to establish a fair estimate by the comparison of numbers, as equal as possible, between certain proportions or corps of the British army and the German Legion.Lord Palmerston
 begged the noble lord would repeat his construction of the words of the Order.Lord Palmerston
 on the part of the maltsters of Yorkshire, protested against any disposition to commit fraud, in requiring the extension of time proposed to be granted by this Bill; these maltsters having, indeed, themselves suggested a penalty upon fraud, the infliction of which must nearly produce the ruin of the guilty. He was glad, therefore, that the application of his constituents had been attended to; but if the object of that application should not, upon trial, be found fully answered by the provisions of the Bill, he should, seeing a clause in the Bill, allowing its repeal or amendment in the course of the session, feel himself competent to apply for a futher extension of time for the steeping of malt in Yorkshire.Mr. Lascelles,
278l277 felt confident, that the ob-
278l277Mr. Wharton
 answered in the negative.Mr. Wharton
 that as the hon. member expressed his intention to propose the rescinding of the Resolution alluded to, without any debate, he should, without any debate, support it. But at the same time he was ready, upon any day that might be appointed, to enter fully into any discussion upon this Resolution, and to justify its terms and character.The Chancellor of the Exchequer said,
286285 differing from the hon. gentleman in his view of the second part of the Bill, took that opportunity of stating his opinions. He did not mean to deny the fact of Bank-notes having been transmitted to Canada, but he certainly had no previons knowledge of it: he had never before heard of such a transaction. If, however, the notes had been sent there, he could not conceive how a depreciation, of 30 per cent. could have taken place, for, undoubtedly, as they were payable at sight, they must be considered at least as good as bills of exchange. The hon. gentleman did not express a wish that the Bank restriction should be taken off immediately. Now, in this point, he differed from several members of the Bullion Committee. It was proposed that the restriction should cease at the end of two years. One hon. member of that committee, however, was desirous that the period should be extended, from time to time, as circumstances warranted; while another wished that it should peremptorily cease and determine, at the expiration of the first-mentioned period. So that it was apparent, from this difference of opinion, that if the legislature had enacted that the restriction should terminate in
286285Mr. Rose,
 rose to correct a misapprehension of the last speaker. He had not asserted that had the report of the Bullion Committee been acted on, the war in the peninsula could not have been maintained, but that it would have been impossible to carry on exertions to the same extent.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 of Kerry, declared he knew of no difference between the value of gold or Bank notes, and was always content to receive his rents in the latter.Mr. Herbert,
 was of opinion that guineas were a very inadequate test of the wealth of a country, and that the present Bill ought to be supported.Sir Edward May
 moved, that the Bill be read a third time tomorrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did imagine that every member had had a fair opportunity of delivering his opinion upon the Bill, and this he was the more inclined to think, from the appearance of the House. If however further debate was thought necessary, and the hon. gentleman would say that he believed some of his friends were desirous of giving further opposition to the Bill, he would not press it forward, although it was a measure which, in his estimation, required dispatch.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated, that if the hon. gentleman would say that any of his friends had any thing to offer upon the subject, he would defer the third reading until Monday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would save the hon. gentleman the trouble of moving this amendment, by moving it himself.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was very common for the House to sit on Saturdays, for the purpose of expediting business.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
At all periods.The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 in order to give the hon. gentleman an opportunity of addressing the House, moved, That the other orders of the day be now read.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 said, that, in point of fact, in all stages of the session, Bills for Supply, or for other urgent matters, were expedited on Saturdays.The Speaker
 observed, that much business had already been appointed for to" morrow.The Speaker
 said a few words in support of the Bill.Mr. Alderman Smith
 apprehended the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find it difficult to adduce a precedent, in which the House had sat to do business, on a Saturday, at so early a period of the session.Mr. Smith
 was about to speak, when the Speaker interrupted him, by observing that there was no question before the House.Mr. Smith
 began by stating his approbation of that part of the Bill which protected the tenant as of eminent advantage, when the political theory of a noble lord (King) had led to a harsh experiment, which had been applauded by party spirit. In his opinion the tenantry of the country deserved to have their interests protected with as much legislative care as any class or description of men whatever; they ought to be enabled to confide in the wisdom and benevolence of the law, and not to be left under the precarious security of a landlord's indulgence or caprice. He had listened attentively to the speeches of great authorities, undoubtedly, on all subjects of political economy, and although he rose with diffidence after the right hon. gentleman, who might be considered the Nestor of the House, yet when he heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer state, that unless the present financial system were maintained, the war in the peninsula must be relinquished, he could have no scruple to vote in support of a question on which our national honour and prosperity so materially depended.Mr. Protheroe
293292 rose, and addressed the House for the first time. After remarking on the preposterousness of the position, that twenty-one shillings were in public estimation equivalent to twenty-six, he stated that he should not have obtruded himself on the patience of the House, were he not convinced, that the main cause of this depreciation in our currency was, on all sides, kept out of
293292Mr. Hudson Gurney
 rose to deliver, for the first time, an opinion on a subject which he confessed had not employed much of his attention. He would not assert that the Bill went to the complete abolition of two prices, but they certainly would not exist in the degree that they would do if a free competition were allowed between gold and Bank-notes.Mr. Stephen
287 maintained, that Banknotes were not depreciated, but that the price of gold had risen, which had given the idea of the supposed depreciation. But if Bank-notes had really decreased in value, goods, which were purchased with them, and especially landed property, had risen to a proportionate nominal increase of price. The contrary, however was the fact; and the fair consequence to be deduced from it was, that
287Mr. Preston
 declaring his desire to take the sense of the House upon this motion,Mr. Whitbread
291sl290 said, that among the virtues of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, candour was a prominent one, and had never been more conspicuous than in the instance which had just occurred. The vote of an hon. gentleman (Mr. Protheroe) was tendered under a misapprehension, which the right hon. gentleman had corrected, although by his correction he of course lost a vote, and the minority would have the advantage of an unexpected convert. A right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Rose,) who had been called the Nestor of the House, had dilated much on the pernicious consequences of the existence of two prices. He could assure the right hon. gentleman that two prices already existed, and that in the city of Bath, at this moment, as he was informed by a letter he had received that day, this distinction openly prevailed, and that in
291sl290Mr. Whitbread
 conceiving the Report about to be presented to be that of the Gold Coin Bill, thought proper, before it was presented, to submit a motion to the House. Having failed to make the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer ashamed of the third Resolution inserted on the Journals in May last, declaring" That the promissory notes of the said company have hitherto been, and are at this time, held in public estimation to be equivalent to the legal coin of the realm, and generally accepted as such in all pecuniary transactions to which such coin is lawfully applicable," he thought it necessary, for the sake of truth and the character of the House, to propose that the resolution should be rescinded, which proposition he would submit without any debate.Mr. Whitbread
Not at this period of the session.Mr. Whitbread.
 in order to give the right hon. gentleman an opportunity of explaining what the urgent nature of the business was, which rendered it necessary for the House to sit on Saturday at so early a period of the session, moved, That the House, at its rising, do adjourn to Monday.Mr. Whitbread,
 would not enter into any pledge whatever, but demanded, as a matter of right, that the Bill should not be thus precipitated through the House; and in support of this right he begged to move, That the Bill be read a third time on. Monday.Mr. Whitbread
 said, it was extremely unusual for the House to sit on Saturday at so early a period of the session. He would not pledge himself for the intention of any hon. member, but as there was no pressure, he could not help thinking it extremely indecorous to endeavour to hurry the Bill through the House upon a day when, it was almost universally understood, no business of importance would be transacted.Mr. Whitbread
 expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should attempt to pass the Bill through the House with so much precipitancy. Saturday was a day on which it was usually understood that no public business would be done, and as many members might feel disposed to deliver their sentiments on the third reading of the Bill, he conceived it would be better to reserve that stage for some future day.Mr. Whitbread
 asked, whether the convictions for fraud upon the excise in Scotland adverted to by his hon. friend, did not relate to the manufacture of whisky, and not to malting?Mr. Dundas
l276 rose on the part of the maltsters of Scotland, from whom he had received such a representation as urged him, from a strong sense of duty, to call the attention of the House to this subject. It appeared to him, indeed, that if the limitation fixed in the measure before the House were insisted upon, there would be no malting in Scotland, and of course there would be no duty. According to the act of last year, the time allowed for steeping barley was settled at 55 hours; but this being found quite insufficient for the maltsters of Yorkshire and the northern counties, this Bill was introduced to correct that mistake, and to extend the time to 65 hours, because from the comparative inferiority of the barley in these districts, such extension was found absolutely necessary. Now what he had to require on the part of his countrymen was, that as they were still more northerly, and their barley still inferior from the inferiority of the soil, a still farther extension might be granted to them. The reason assigned
l276Mr. W. Dundas
284283282l281280l stated, that as his opinions on the subject then before the House were generally known, he would not tire their patience by going at great length into the question, in reference to the law of the land, and the principles of justice. He was disposed to think, that, out of the walls of that House, notwithstanding the assertions of his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, they would not be able to find anyone person who would agree in the Re solution which they had just affirmed, any more than they could, in the ordinary business of life, procure a guinea; all that description of coin having completely disappeared. If any person could doubt that there was a depreciation of the paper currency, he knew no better mode to convince him of the fact, than by drawing his attention to the Bill then on the table. His right hon. friend had argued, that the paper could not be depreciated, if three conditions were acceded to: first, that the coin of the realm should pass at a current rate, to be fixed by the sovereign authority of the state; second, that the paper currency should correspond with the denomination of the coin. These two principles were acted upon in all states. The first constituted the essence of money; the second was its representative. But his right hon. friend found a third condition necessary to prevent the depreciation of this representative, and which they were then labouring to effect by this law. To render the current coin and Bank paper equally valuable, a penalty must be inflicted on those who disposed of the former for more than the price attached to it by the sovereign authority, or who disposed of the latter for less than its nominal value; and then they came to this conclusion, that if the paper money was so depreciated, as that 1,000284283282l281280lMr. Huskisson
 reprobated the principle upon which the Bill was originally introduced: he said it was not alone inconsistent with that species of policy which the most celebrated writers had advanced as best calculated to uphold the interests of a state, but in direct opposition to, the commercial interests of the country. As to the latter part of the Bill, he considered it a perfect fallacy; for, to his own certain knowledge, guineas were in the month of October last bought and sold without the slightest attempt at concealment, in the city of which he had the honour to be representative (Norwich.) Indeed, so little reserve was observed in the traffic, that it was universally believed that agents were employed by the government for the express purpose of buying guineas. The hon. gentleman concluded by declaring his intention of voting against the Bill.Mr. W. Smith
289288 in a maiden speech, said, that notwithstanding the length to which the debate had been carried, yet
289288Sir Egerton Brydges,
296 was convinced if the hon. member had attended to the statement made by him on the introduction of this measure; if he had reflected on the immense multiplicity of business in the Post Office, all falling to the share of one man, and the impossibility of conceiving that any one person, who had such important duties to perform, could be always on the spot, attending from day to day without intermission; if he had considered that without such a Bill as the present, the whole of the important duties of this office must be at a stand, during any occasional indisposition or necessary absence of the Secretary, he was satisfied the hon. gentleman must have been convinced, that the present Bill was not only not unreasonable, but necessary. For his own
296Mr. Wharton
 alluded to the privilege enjoyed by a noble lord, one of the paymasters general of the forces, who never entered the door of the office; and to a similar privilege enjoyed by the three commissioners of woods and forests. This certainly was less objectionable, and if on enquiry he found it was as the hon. gentleman had stated, the Bill should experience no farther objection from him.Mr. Creevey
 objected to any extension of the privilege of franking by public officers, observing, that there was no one privilege more abused. It was only from the newspapers that he had been aware of the House meeting this day, a thing which he observed had been objected to, though unsuccessfully. The reason assigned, however, for this unusual meeting of the House on Saturday was the necessity of forwarding some Bills which required dispatch. He could not conceive the present to be a Bill of that description, and therefore he hoped it would not be pressed, that he might have an opportunity of demanding from the right hon. gentlemen on the other side, on some future day, some explanation as to the grounds on which the measure in question was proposed.Mr. Creevey
299 observed, that the amount of currency was now entirely under the regulation of a body, who had declared, that they governed their issues by no other rule than the supposed solidity of those upon the security of whose bills they made their advances. Provided the Bill was considered the representation of a real commercial transaction, and payable at a short date, it was admitted that no further test was deemed necessary of the propriety of any issue. How the di-
299Mr. Abercromby
 repeated several statements, which he had a few days since laid before the House, in order to show that the foreign exchanges were entirely independent of the domestic currency. He endeavoured, likewise, to shew that the whole amount of our present circulation fell short of what it was when gold formed the larger part of the currency. He was aware that the issues of the country banks were considerable; but in many parts, and particularly in Lancashire, no country paper whatever was in circulation.Mr. Rose
 admitted that the gold coin of the realm had disappeared; and he saw no reason why gold, as well as other articles, might not be made a source of traffic. In many instances it must necessarily be expected, such as when it was applied in the purchase of corn, or other commodities, on the continent. The high price of bullion was, in his opinion, wholly attributable to the balance of trade being against us; and until this could be remedied it was not to be expected that we should have an influx of that coin, of which the country now appeared to be almost totally drained. Rather than see two prices put upon the circulating medium, however, he would be satisfied to see the country without a single guinea.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
 intimated that his noble friend was indisposed.Mr. Bathurst
301300 in a maiden speech, began by remarking, that to his understanding, it appeared quite clear, that the depreciation of any currency could arise only from one of two causes—either from a want of confidence in those by whom it was issued, or from an excess in the amount of their issues. This proposition was so indisputable, that upon this part of the subject, he should make but few observations in speaking of the value of gold, or of any other circulating medium, he thought it would not be to require too much, if gentlemen were to state in what commodity it was they estimated that value. The price of any article could only be ascertained by a comparison with the value of some other. In the year 1718, when the nominal value of the guinea was considerably raised, the immediate effect was, to render gold exclusively the currency of the country. It was stated, he believed, in lord Liverpool's Letter to the King, that during a period of some extent, the value of gold remained stationary, whilst that of silver had undergone several variations. The rate of exchange to which the right hon. gentleman, who preceded him, had referred, could serve to throw no light whatever on the question to which it was applied.
301300Mr. J. P. Grant,
305304 having on the first bringing forward of the present measure opposed it, could not now assent to it, as he meant to do, without explaining the grounds of his assent, and thus shielding himself from any imputation of a dereliction of principle. In many respects, the bodies politic and natural admitted of useful comparison, and if he might now be permitted to draw an illustration from it, he would say, that at the time he opposed the measures which he now approved, the state was in the situation of a patient, whom a singular operation would have restored to perfect and immediate health; it was now in the situation of one who had deferred such an operation till it could not be resorted to without incurring the risk of more serious evils, even of death itself. He would not take upon himself to say to what cause the evil was chiefly attributable, whether to the state of the currency; or to that of our foreign commercial relations; but be that as it might, he was rejoiced that the subject had been brought before parliament. If no other good was to result from that circumstance, the public would derive no slight satisfaction from the declaration which had been made some nights since by the governor of the Bank of England, namely, that in the course of the last year, the Bank issues had undergone a diminution of two millions. And here he could not forbear pressing on the attention of the House,
305304Mr. Marryatt
 was of opinion, that the evils which it was asserted would be the result of the Bill, were either fictitious, or easily obviated; and that under all circumstances, the necessity of the measure must be apparent to all who sufficiently reflected on it.Mr. Preston
 observed, that the remarks of the hon. gentleman were most foreign to the question before the House. For his part he confessed himself wholly unable to discover their applicability: there might perhaps be a Ulysses or a Nestor present, who could. Possibly the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or the President of the Lard of Trade, or the. Vice-president of the Board of Trade might be able to show it. He owned that he was not at all surprised, to, hear the hon. gentleman attribute the embarrassed state of our currency to Buonaparté. It was the hon. gentleman's usual practice to lay all our evils at Buonaparté's door. On him all were thrown. Perhaps, even, the absence of a noble lord (Castlereagh) might be owing to Buonaparté's having turned up some what nearer home than was expected.Mr. Whitbread
306 expressed his regret at the circumstance; he had supposed it possible that Buonaparté's having been found at Berlin, might have occasioned the noble lord's absence; knowing, however, the elasticity of the noble lord's mind and body, he had no doubt that he would soon recover his wonted health. With respect to the Bill before the House, the object of it was to prevent that which already existed—two prices. Every body knew that all the necessaries of life could be bought at a cheaper rate with gold than with paper. The conduct of the hon. gentleman who spoke last had been most
306Mr. Whitbread
298 rose to move the following Resolutions which were brought forward by Mr. Brougham in 1811: viz.298Mr. Whitbread
303302 could not, by any means, agree to a Resolution which went to assert that a one pound note and a shilling were equal to a guinea. He had had very
303302Sir F. Flood
 said, he held in his hands a Petition from captain Inglis, who was to have gone out to survey Port Jackson. While his vessel was in the river, some of his crew, all of whom had protections, were attacked by a press-gang. They resisted this press-gang, and beat them off, but he himself took no part in the resistance. A complaint was lodged at the Thames Police Office, to which he was brought. His treatment there was shocking and shameful. He was confined from four in the afternoon till eight in the evening, in a place which it was scarcely de cent to mention; and when he came from this place—a common privy—he was so overcome with the stench, that he was ready to faint. He was conveyed to Clerkenwell Prison, and obliged to share a bed with one of the felons, in irons. His affairs were much injured, if not ruined, by being detained till his trial should come on in March next. This gentleman was well known, during a long life, as possessed of a most respectable character. He was well related, and had served first as a midshipman in the king's service, and afterwards in a high situation in a vessel belonging to the East India Company; and while he was in the Company's service, he had received a considerable reward from lord Minto, for having saved the lives of several persons wrecked on an unknown rock in the Bay of Bengal. He had references for character to admiral Hunter, lord Erskine, the hon. Henry Erskine, and several other respectable individuals. He hoped that the Admiralty would of themselves take this case into consideration, and prevent its coming before the House.Sir F. Burdett
 presented the following Message from his royal highness the Prince Regent:The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 when the Message was read, proposed that it should be referred to the Committee of Supply.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 said, that this Message was not only extraordinary, but insulting to the people of this country.Sir F. Burden
 spoke in support of the grant, and was hostile to the remarks of the hon. baronet.Mr. Lockart
318 said, that the Message, whatever might be its propriety, appeared to him, or rather came upon him, as a
318Mr. Ponsonby
 differed much from the hon. baronet, and thought the grant recommended in the Message advisable in the highest degree.Mr. Stephen
 said, that we ought to begin by relieving our own starving manufacturers, as he saw no reason why, in this instance, charity should not begin at home.Mr. Whitbread
 said, though he had not as yet decided, that, at present, the strong inclination of his mind was to support the grant.Earl Temple
l in explanation, said, that as it was the duty of the Russian government to protect its own subjects, this could operate in no other way than as a subsidy to that government. As to the Sinecure Bill, he did not mean that the whole sum of 200,000lMr. Ponsonby,
 gave his support to the motion, as the sum to be voted was not greater than every ten days expence of the war in the peninsula.Lord Cochrane
l328l327326325 then said, that had it not been for some intimations of intended opposition which the reading of the Message had produced last night, he should have left the question ha was about to propose to be decided by the
l328l327326325The Chancellor of the Exchequer
330ll329 declared, that it certainly was his intention to vote for the proposed grant, but it was not on account of any of the reasons stated by the right hon. gentleman, nor was it because the terms in which the Message was conceived, were such as were most likely to induce the House to comply with its request. The Message stated the wish of the government to be, to afford "speedy relief" to the suffering Russians; and after this declaration, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that before any relief could be granted, it would be necessary to communicate with our ambassador at Petersburgh; so that it would arrive at the end of the winter, when it would be unnecessary. Effectual relief was held out as attainable; but it would not be in the power of the country, not only if it were as liberal but as extravagant, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer could wish, to afford it. But though it was his opinion, that the relief to the sufferers would neither be speedy nor effectual, he should not vote against the proposed grant. But he voted for it, not under the supposition that any of it would go to the Russian peasant, but as a present to the Russian emperor, and lest we should seem to manifest a coldness or backwardness with respect to the noble struggle in which he was engaged. Thinking thus, he did not like the cant of this begging Message, which came to the House under the hypocritical pretence of asking alms for the people For the sufferings of the people
330ll329Mr. Ponsonby
334333 disclaimed the idea that, in consequence of this grant, we should be called upon to supply the wants of every country that might be reduced to a state of distress by the aggression of France. A principle so broad would lead to consequences, which, in the present convulsed state of Europe, it would be impossible for this country to meet. But the question was, whether the sufferings of the people of Russia were not brought home to our feelings, both by the heroic exer-
334333Lord Castlereagh
335 said, he had heard many-parts of the noble lord's speech with pleasure, but there was no part of it which he had heard with so much pleasure, as the word 'peace, a word which he had not for a very long time heard from the other side of the House. If he thought the present grant would really tend to facilitate that most desirable object, a secure and honourable peace, there was no man who would more readily and cordially agree to it than he would. He sincerely hoped that all the sacrifices and exertions which had been made, and of which so much had been said, would not end in a delusive sound, and that we should not be embroiled in fresh wars on fresh successes. But it had been, in his opinion, justly stated, that the proposed grant would not give effectual relief to the Russians; and, knowing the distresses of our own countrymen to be great, and feeling them as he did, he could not assent to taking the money out of the pockets of the poor of this country, to waste it in nominal relief to others. No attempt had been made by parliament to retrench wasteful and superfluous excess in many of the departments of government; no hint had been thrown out, no intention had been expressed, tending that way. While this was the case, he thought it his duty to resist every application to parliament for any extraordinary supplies, in the present exhausted state of the country. It was not possible to take up a paper; not a day passed, without accounts of distraining for the taxes in different places. He did not understand the principle of that generosity, whichsym-pathised only with the distresses of other countries, but bad no feelings for those of our own. Last year the sufferings of the manufacturers in the northern and midland counties had been laid before parliament with a view to some pecuniary relief being afforded. Those sufferings were of a nature to make every feeling heart bleed. But the answer to the application was, that no relief could be be given, consistently with the pressure of the times, and with public economy. We paid dear for the prevalence of this sort of foreign sympathy we had to maintain French
335Sir F. Burdett
331l said, that the right hon. gentleman had not been happy in the selection of his topics, which were not reasons against the grant, but insinuations against the motives of those who had introduced it. The word "speedy" applied, not to the absolute length of time, but to the nature of the case. If, on communication with our ambassador at Peters-burgh, relief in specie should be judged expedient, there could be no difficulty in making it immediate. The word "effectual" had been applied, not to the relief afforded by this government alone, but in conjunction with that of Russia. To what pitch the munificence of Russia might extend he did not know, but he hoped, that in conjunction with the aid afforded by us, it would be effectual to the great object intended. The next objection was, that it would go, not to the sufferers, but to the Russian treasury, and under this persuasion, the right hon. gentleman had thought the Message properly designated by cant or hypocritical, which terms (had that conception been correct); would, not have been misapplied. But did that right hon. gentleman think, that the paltry sum of 200,000331lMr. Bathurst
l332 was sorry to say, that the grant would not pass unanimously. On the Message being first read it had struck him that the grant was not proper; and on discussion with friends whom he respected, and who entertained sentimentson the subject different from his own, he had not found reason to change his opinion. Some of the grounds of his dissent from the grant had been stated by his right hon. friend. He did not, moreover, think it just to this country to take money out of the pockets of our starving manufacturers, to apply it to sufferers to whom, unhappily, it could be of no use. Those unfortunate beings who, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, had sought shelter from the severity of a Russian winter in their forests, were now, alas! as senseless as the snow with which they were surrounded: and how, if they continued to exist, could the
l332Mr. Whitbread
 said, that those gentlemen who opposed the grant found it hard to reconcile their conduct to themselves. They could only do it by inventing some other object of humanity which appeared to claim the preference, or by denying that the measure before the House would operate effectually to the relief of the sufferers. He thought, that including the cheapness of provisions and the mode of living in Russia, the sum, moderate as it was, would be of considerable immediate service; but he conceived the principal benefit to be expected from it, was, that in other cases of a similar kind, it would be setting an example, and opening a channel, into which the charitable and liberal feelings of others would naturally flow. An hon. gentleman had spoken lightly of the grant, as not likely to cement the two countries together. But he conceived that nothing had a greater influence in strengthening political alliances than the manifestation of a friendly and generous disposition between the people. He did not see why nations as well as individuals might not be both generous and just. He had attempted to make some calculation of the share of the ex-pence which would fall upon the poor of this country, but he had found it impossible, and had given up the task in despair. He thought that we could only testify our gratitude to Providence for our exemption from the heavier calamities of war, by shewing our sense of the sufferings to which the inhabitants of other countries, united with us in the same cause, were unfortunately exposed.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, he had waited till the House was nearly upon the point of adjourning, in hopes that more members would be present.Sir F. Burdett
341 rose to present a Petition from the friends and relatives of certain persons now confined in Ilchester gaol. The parties were resident at Bath, and the individuals in confinement had been committed in consequence of assembling riotously before the town hall, during the last election in that city, and demanding in a tumultuous manner that the doors of the hall should be opened. This was refused, and some windows were broken. The next day these persons were seized, and had been treated with a severity which nothing could justify. The particulars of that severity were set forth in the Petition which he held in his hand. The offence was certainly bailable, and bail to any amount had been offered, but was refused. They were then sent to Ilchester gaol, and being all of them people who maintained their families by their own labour, the greatest distress had ensued to them. One was a journeyman printer, another a journeyman carpenter, and another was a poor woman who earned her subsistence by carrying goods home from the markets. They were, of course, unable to obtain justice by any legal process. The petitioners set forth that they were confined in solitary cells and heavily ironed. All access to them by their friends or relations who might be disposed to alleviate the hardships of their lot, was denied. During this severe weather they had nothing to sleep on but a little straw in a stone dungeon, and covered with a scanty rug; and though some humane persons in the town had provided them with great coats, yet they were stripped of these every night before they were locked up in their cells. The ordinary hour of locking them up was about four o'clock. Their food was nothing but bread and water; and to convince the House that he was not dwelling upon feigned or imaginary distresses, he would shew them one of the loaves which had
341Sir F. Burdett
 thought it would be a dangerous precedent to grant the prayer of the Petition, which went either to liberation from prison, or to being admitted to bail. The prisoners had been committed for felony, the Riot Act having been duly read, and they had continued their tumultuous conduct notwithstanding. It was the province of a jury, therefore, to decide upon their guilt or innocence; and they would take their trial at the next assizes. He considered the allegations in the Petition as false.Mr. Harvey
 suggested whether it would not be better to present the Petition when there was a fuller attendance of members.Lord Palmerston
 put a question to the noble lord opposite, whether the clerks in the Navy Office (who, although they had purchased their situations from lord Barham, had had their emoluments most unduly curtailed) and to whose case he took occasion last session to call the attention of the House, had yet received any relief, or whether it was intended to afford the redress required? He understood that a representation upon this subject had been made from the Navy Office to the Board of Admiralty, and he wished to know what was meant to be done in consequence of that representation?Sir F. Burdett
346 expressed his regret that he had it not in his power to answer the hon. baronet's question, of which had he been aware, he would have inquired after the information desired. He had, however, no doubt that complete justice would be done by the Admiralty. With respect to the hon. baronet's allusion
346Lord Castlereagh
 said, that he had it once in contemplation to bring forward a charge against lord Barham, and he still thought that no practice could justify the sale of these offices—but still less was he justifiable, after such sale, meanly to curtail the emolument of the purchasers.Sir F. Burdett
 repeated the statement which he said he had submitted to the House in the course of the discussions upon the Gold Coin Bill, namely, that although he fully approved of the principle of the Local Token Act, it was intended to postpone the operation of that principle for some months, be thought until about Midsummer, in order that measures might be taken in the interim to ensure a more liberal supply of Bank Tokens.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, whether it was the intention of ministers to press the provisions of the Local Token Act, and thereby to inconvenience the country in the present scarcity of silver, and the comparatively limited distribution of Bank Tokens? Mr. Hudson Gurney
6 rose to move an Address of Thanks. All their lordships, he observed, must participate in the feelings expressed in the Speech, relative to the continuance of the unfortunate indisposition of his Majesty, and in the desire intimated by his Royal Highness, that in the provision to be made for the support of his Majesty, every facility should be given to his Majesty for resuming the personal exercise of the royal authority, if it should please Providence to restore him. After the number of years which his Majesty had reigned over the country, and when it was considered that, during his long reign, numerous Blessings had been conferred upon the people, that when every other state had been involved in misery and calamity, this country had alone escaped; and that our thus remaining uninjured amidst the desolation that surrounded us, was chiefly to be attributed to the numerous virtues of his Majesty, he was convinced there could be but one feeling amongst their lordships upon the topics to which their attention was thus called by his royal highness the Prince Regent.—Upon the subject of Spain, there was much to congratulate the country in the unbroken spirit still displayed by the inhabitants of that kingdom, and in the various successes obtained against the enemy. If the House turned to Portugal, they would find ample sources of congratulation. In the course of last session,
6The Earl of Shaftesbury
11 wished as much for unanimity on the present occasion, as the noble baron who had just sat down; but to that wish he could not sacrifice a public principle. The noble baron had justly said, that on the day of the opening of the session, a general outline of the state of the nation was usually laid before the House, but it had never been deemed necessary to introduce into that outline, all the topics which might afterwards demand their lordships' attention. The details, for instance, on foreign connections, were invariably reserved for future opportunities; and he could not think of altering that established and approved line of conduct for the sake of unanimity. The present, his lordship was convinced, was not a fit day to dwell on such or any other details; but the noble baron had entered a general protest against the whole of the
11The Earl of Liverpool
 adverted to the state of Ireland, and the question relative to the Catholics. There was now an opportunity to do what would be beneficial with a good grace. He thought that the late exemplary conduct of the Catholics of Ireland, under circumstances of great irritation, ought to make its due impression on their lordships' minds. He recommended them to beware, lest they might lose the only opportunity that might be afforded them.The Earl of Darnley
14 adverted to what had been said respecting the avoidance of topics not mentioned in the speech. He had been in parliament thirty years, and he knew that it was a parliamentary practice to submit amendments, not merely on points of the speech, but on such as were omitted in it. It might be very proper and parliamentary to move an amendment to the Address, stating that the House would take immediately into its consideration the state of Ireland, in order to bring forward such measures as might be necessary and useful for that country, and the kingdom at large. He did not mean,
14The Duke of Norfolk
 said, that he had not objected to the propriety of moving an amendment on points omitted. The noble duke had misunderstood him. When he had spoken of the people throughout the country, he had reference to the general support by the people, of the government of the Prince Regent, and the safety and honour of the country.The Earl of Liverpool
nem. dis.15 intended no insinuation. Had he supposed that there were persons who were not disposed to support the government of the Prince Regent, in what he believed to be for the safety and honour of the country, he should not have spoken in the way of insinuation. In
nem. dis.15The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to ask the noble marquis opposite, whether any progress had been made in the mediation offered between the government of Spain and her colonies in South America; and whether it was the intention of ministers to give any information on such progress? He concurred with the noble lord's views on that subject, as they appeared to him. He only wished, as an individual, to be assured that the real views were what he conceived them to be. A year and a half had elapsed since the Caraccas rose in rebellion, and three months since the mediation was agreed upon. If his view of the proffered mediation was correct, for the sake of humanity, it became necessary to enforce it directly, and yet a year and a half had elapsed without any progress being made, or the policy of ministers being known.Lord Holland
 said it was a case requiring great care, attention, and circumspection. It was necessary to avoid in-flaming animosities, fomenting jealousies, and exciting passions, that mixed in this business. The difficulties, therefore, which stood in the way, required a cautious procedure. Through the whole of the business, all the ministers were of opinion it was better to preserve the integrity of the Spanish colonies, as a support against the common enemy, than seek any temporary advantage that might be derived from their present state in relation to the mother country. He had every hope, that ultimately his wishes would be crowned with success, but whatever might be the result, he was confident that nothing would be done to excite jealousy or suspicion. At present, be hoped the noble lord would not seek further information.Marquis Wellesley
16 said this amounted to no information at all. Care had been taken to name a commission; but three months had elapsed, and care had been taken not to send it away. He wished to know what progress had been made in the mediation?
16Lord Holland
 did not mean to say that no steps had been taken. The truth was, there had been an early interference, but it had not led to the removal of the difficulties which prevented the mediation from being proceeded in. It was necessary to ascertain previously, that both parties would agree to the mediation, and be likely to acquiesce in what it might be in contemplation to recommend. Such progress had therefore been made, as the nature of the case would admit; and had he proceeded with more promptitude and expedition, it might have inflamed passions and raised difficulties, that might defeat the object in view.Marquis Wellesley
 professed himself not satisfied with this answer, and accordingly gave notice of his intention to move for papers on the subject.Lord Holland
1312 said, that he fully concurred in the propriety of avoiding any lengthened discussion upon the various important topics which were suggested by hearing the Speech which had been read from the woolsack. He entirely approved of the policy pursued by his noble friend in confining himself, on the present occasion, to the delivering of his protest against any expression of his opinions being understood upon points in which it was impos-
1312Earl Grey
7 rose to second the Address. After the able manner in which it had been moved, it could scarcely be expected that he could add much to the remarks already made. He would, however, trouble the House with a few obser-
7Lord Brownlow
1098, considering the critical circumstances of the times, and the present alarming state of the country, would have been happy if the Address proposed to the House had been so worded as to
1098Lord Grenville
 said, that the explanation of the noble lord called upon him to say a few words more, and to ask whether the noble lord thought it was necessary for him to call on the people throughout the country to support the government of the Prince Regent. He would assert, that it was not. For himself, he had expressed his concurrence in the desire of parliament to support the Prince Regent in the discharge of the awful duties of the high station which had been cast upon him: but an insinuation seemed to have been conveyed, which the circumstances neither merited nor excused.Lord Grenville
 said he should not object to the motion. With respect to the statement elsewhere, he had not seen it, but he was satisfied it would be found that no attempt had been made by an individual to deceive himself, as alluded to by a the noble lord, or still less to deceive the country.—The motions were agreed to.The Earl of Liverpool
74 rose to move the appointment of a Select Committee, to examine the Physicians in attendance on his Majesty, touching the state of his-Majesty's health. His lordship observed, that they were now called upon to resort to this measure under different circumstances to those which existed in the last session. The Privy
74The Earl of Liverpool
73, at the request of his noble friend (earl Fitzwilliam) who had given notice of a motion respecting the state of Ireland, for tomorrow se'nnight, moved to discharge the order for summoning their lordships on that day, with the view of postponing it till Friday, the 24th instant. His noble friend was decidedly of the same opinion with himself, that the situation of Ireland had been brought to a crisis, and that it must now be decided what were to be the future relations between this country and that. The reason, however, which induced his noble friend to wish the postponement of the motion was, that in the additional
73Lord Grenville
 observed, that a partial statement of the revenue of the country had been made elsewhere, and was probably now in the hands of their lordships. He could not applaud that conduct as manly, where the individual endeavoured to deceive himself and to shut his eyes to the difficulties of the country, still less could he call by the name of patriotism an attempt to deceive the country. He should therefore move for Accounts of the Produce of the Consolidated Fund, of the War Taxes, and of the annual Land and Malt for the years ending the 6th of January, 1810, and the 5th of January, 1811, in order that a true statement might be before the House, and to the production of these accounts he supposed there could be no objection.Lord Grenville
129128127, in rising to make his promised motion for a Vote of Thanks to the right hon. Gilbert lord Minto, governor-general of India, and to the officers who had acted under him, for the late brilliant operations in the Eastern seas, was aware of the difference of opinion which existed as to the degree of merit which entitled any individual to such high honour as that of the Thanks of that House. He was also aware, that such a mark of distinction should not be wantonly lavished; he knew, at the same time, that the House was ever willing to pay a due tribute of praise to meritorious services. But, in the present instance, he was not apprehensive that a want of sufficient merit could be urged, as an objection to the proposed Vote of Thanks. The House were not called upon to thank the Governor-General of India for a single service, but for a general system of operations, conceived in the most profound wisdom, executed with the most active determination, and attended with the most brilliant exploits. Those exertions had been eminently successful; and that success had been principally owing to the arrangements made by the noble lord, to whom he then proposed the thanks of the House should be voted. Considering the present system of aggrandisement on the continent of Europe, which France had too successfully practised, it had been thought advisable by the government of this country, to retaliate by attacking the colonial power of the enemy, in every part of the world. For it was obvious, that as long as he could retain a place of rendezvous, or shelter his privateers and fit out expeditions, our trade would be liable to annoyance, far exceeding, in amount, the expences of expeditions intended to deprive him of his last shelter. Under these cir-
129128127The Earl of Liverpool
130 rose to express his perfect concurrence in the praises bestowed by the noble Secretary of State on the governor-general of India. No doubt could be entertained but those valuable conquests were owing to his wise arrangements, and if a precedent had been wanting to vote the thanks of the House for political services, the present was a tit case to form one. His lordship then recapitulated the exertions of the officers employed in those expeditions so wisely planned, and whose services he considered not only as brilliant but as eminently useful. He could not, however, go to the length of approving the noble secretary of state, when he said that a system of colonial aggression was meant as a counterbalance for immense acquisitions on the continent; for he was convinced, that such a vast increase of European dominions, must sooner or later carry with them ships, colonies, and commerce. His lordship had always been of opinion, that it would have been preferable for England to employ her
130The Earl of Moira
nem. con. then moved the thanks of the House, in the usual form, to lieutenant-generals Abercromby and sir Samuel Achmuty: to vice-admiral Albemarle Bertie and rear-admiral Stopford: to major-generals Henry Warde and Augustus Wetherall; and all the officers, both European and natives, employed underthem: to commodores Broughton and Rowley. He also moved, That the House do approve of the conduct of the non-commissioned officers and privates, and seamen and marines, employed in those expeditions.—All these motions were agreed to, nem. con.The Earl of Liverpool
 also heartily concerned in the motion, conceiving there could be no doubt that in this instance the thanks of the House were most justly due, and as a connection of lord Minto, he returned thanks to his noble friend the Secretary of State, for the liberal manner in which he had appreciated the services of that noble lord.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
131 considered himself bound in honour to declare, that, since he had sat in that. House, he had never heard a more manly, generous, and statesman-like speech than that delivered by the noble Secretary of State, it did him great honour; and with that feeling, he would not delay the House by useless observations. He had himself frequently recommended to the House to be sparing of their votes of thanks, as it was the highest honour which could be conferred on an individual; and he asserted that opinion the more willingly at a moment when he most heartily concurred with the motion, than when he was reluctantly forced to oppose that reward being bestowed on otherwise meritorious services. But the thanks of the House were not to be the reward of easy victory, however useful; difficulties overcome would alone entitle the conquerors to those thanks. But, in the present case, as the noble Secretary of State had justly observed, success was not only the result of wisdom, prudence, and discretion, but also of courage and resolution. Success had been, in a great measure, owing to the noble resolution of the governor-general of India, to assume an awful responsibility, when every thing seemed to combine to deter him; and, in spite of all those disadvantages, he did not hesitate to step forward to serve his country. His lordship would even go further than the noble secretary of state, who had said that by custom, military and naval services seemed entitled exclusively to the thanks of the House; he thought political services of such a nature were eminently deserving of that high reward, but it would be invidious if the officers who
131Lord Grenville
 acquainted the House it was with extreme reluctance he had again to postpone the pending discussion of the important subject of the Catholics of Ireland. With the cause he believed all their lordships were acquainted, namely, the severe domestic affliction [the death of the son of lord G. Cavendish] which recently occurred in a family, with which his noble friend, who was to bring forward the motion, was nearly connected, and in which affliction he deeply participated. It was proposed to defer the discussion for a week, and no longer. His lordship then moved to discharge the order for summoning their lordships' for Friday the 24th inst. and to renew the same for Friday the 31st inst. which was ordered accordingly.Lord Grenville
412411410409 said, he rose, in pursuance of his notice, to call the attention of their lordships to the situation of a very important part of the British Empire, and which their lordships were all aware was that part of the empire on the other side of St. George's Channel. Little did he think, however, when he gave notice of his motion, founding his intention, as he then did, upon circumstances which had then already taken place, and which had excited the most alarming discontents in Ireland—little did he think, that at the time his motion would be discussed, he should have had to lament the existence of still further and aggravated circumstances, which could not fail to add most alarmingly to the discontents already existing, which could not fail to be pregnant with danger to the best interests and hopes of the country. Little did he think that he should have had to notice a line of conduct on the part of the government of Ireland, as developed by the mail that arrived yesterday, which he believed had no example during the whole of the last century, and to parallel which, he believed he must go back to the arbitrary reign of James the second. Where could the people look for protection or safety, if the great bulwark of personal safety and personal liberty, the trial by jury, was vitiated and corrupted? Yet he found, by the account which had reached London, of the proceedings in the Irish court of King's bench, that the jury pannel summoned to try one of the Catholic Delegates had been tampered with, and that the crown solicitor had been numbering, and marking, and altering the list in a manner that proved the exercise of the undue influence of government; nay, that sir Charles Saxton,
412411410409Earl Fitzwilliam
416415414413 observed, that the noble mover had spoken of discontents of Ireland, and he was not surprized that the noble earl should take a deep interest in the affairs of that part of the empire, not only from the magnificent property he possessed there, but from his serious desire for the welfare of the country. He lamented that there were discontents, but he could not agree with the noble earl in the mode he proposed of allaying them. He regretted that the noble earl should have brought forward the charge of tampering with a jury, and should have mentioned the name of a highly respectable individual. Upon what did the noble
416415414413The Earl of Rosse
421420419 took a survey of the general state of Ireland, in order to examine what it was which could so urgently call for an enquiry into the condition of that country at the present moment. What most forcibly struck him in considering the state of Ireland, was the tone and attitude which the body of the Roman Catholics had assumed in the preparation and furtherance, as they called it, of their petition to parliament. Was the present the proper moment for pressing forward their claims? Was their Petition ready to be laid now before the House? Was it in the manner in which that petition was prepared, or the circumstances that attended and marked their meetings, that parliament was to discover and hail, that moderation, that forbearance, that respect for the laws, that veneration for the constitution, which had so much and so frequently been the theme of panegyric and applause with their advocates? What was the real object of the motion which the noble earl had that night submitted to their lordships' consideration? Were not the noble mover and those who supported him anxious rather to extend the inquiry into the whole conduct of his Majesty's government—to canvass and criticise their proceedings under all the aspects of that conduct? This he believed was the true motive and object of the present motion. But he had attentively watched the proceedings of the government in Ireland; indeed, the general measures of his Majesty's govern-
421420419The Earl of Aberdeen
422 called the attention of the House to the meaning and operation of the Act of Union, as far as it had hitherto influenced the prosperity of Ireland, because he thought it connected very closely and materially with the question in debate. If indeed, it should be found that his native country had been considerably benefited by this measure, and had reaped any of those advantages which had been held out to her eleven years ago, she might certainly bear, with the greatest patience and fortitude, any deprivations which she had experienced, and which he had severely felt and deeply regretted. That any advantages had resulted to her, from the compact, was certainly not the case of Ireland, and much less of the Catholics: what she had lost by the Union was registered in the mind of every Irishman; what she had gained was a matter of much more difficult calculation, if not of mere conjecture. She had been deprived of her legislature, of her metropolis, and even of her name as a nation: the commonwealth had been reduced to a dispirited population; above all, she had been most deeply wounded by being deprived of the domestic residence of the greater part of her nobility and gentry, which had tended, mote than any other, to keep the remaining population, ignorant and debased. The happy fruits that had been reaped, he must leave to the determination of noble lords on the other side of the House, who were better
422The Marquis of Downshire
431430429 said, the present question ought to be considered on the broad ground of justice and policy. The Catholics had reason to expect, that after the Union they would obtain the privileges which were so long disputed; if it was not for that conviction, he understood that they would not have given their support to the measure; and if this was the case, had they not a strong claim of justice upon their part? If no mischief was likely to arise from granting their request, what objection could be stated against it? Where were the dreadful consequences which some persons seemed to anticipate, from allowing them the right to sit and vote in parliament? If he stated the number of peers at ten or twelve, he supposed it would be the outside; and supposing in the House of Commons, that one half of the Irish members were to be returned by that body, what mischief could arise from the admission of 50 Catholic members among a body consisting of nearly 700? He had always remarked, that on every question that related to the Roman Catholics, the great majority of the members at present returned by that country voted as they would have done if
431430429Lord Somers
438437436435malus animus434433432 said, that the subject, which, had been presented to the attention of their lordships, was worthy to engage it. The state of the affairs of Ireland was so intimately connected with the general prosperity and strength of the empire, that the hereditary counsellors of the crown could never be employed more usefully to their sovereign, or to their country, than in examining the situation of Ireland, her resources, her internal administration, her happiness and welfare, and above all, the condition of the great body of her population. But although these topics must ever be present to their minds, the ancient usage and established practice of parliament required, that their lordships should consider deliberately the manner, and the season, in which this inquiry was pressed upon them. The magnitude and importance of the questions proposed, their general claim to attention, would not induce that House to enter hastily into the Committee, without previously adverting to the professed motives and objects of the intended enquiry, to the probable consequences of its progress, and to its ultimate result. Nor would their lordships advance one step in the course recommended by the noble mover, until they should have carefully examined what might be the operation of their vote upon the strength and honour of the executive government in Ireland, upon the due administration of the law in that country; upon the law itself; how the temper of the people and of contending parties might be moved by this proceeding; and what might be the influence of the noble earl's proposition, even upon the very point of his solicitude; the interesting cause of the Roman Catholics of Ireland.438437436435malus animus434433432Marquis Wellesley
458457456 said, that he had too much personal respect for the noble earl in whom the motion originated, and for the noble lords by whom it had been supported, to suppose them actuated by any but a laudable motive. He had no doubt that it was their intention to conciliate the feelings of the Catholics; but by some strange error, they had selected every possible topic of exasperation. The themes on which they had dilated were the misconduct of the Irish government, the discontents in Ireland, the causes of those discontents, and, in their opinion, the cure for them. With respect to the conduct of government in Ireland, all that related to the temper and conciliation which had been shewn was the merit of the Irish government exclusively; but in the general conduct his Majesty's government at home must claim their full share. It was the object of the framers of the Convention act, not to interfere with the right of the subject to petition, but to prevent any individual from speaking for others, or being the organ of any class of people. It was possible that the Catholic Committee had for some time, before it was applied to them, come within the meaning of the Convention act. But surely it was not to be imputed
458457456The Earl of Westmoreland
461460459 said he would not follow the noble earl, who had just sat down, in the line of argument he had adopted; nor would be advert to the many transactions on which he had expatiated at great length, as they were likely to come before their lordships in another capacity. But the noble earl had said, that he saw no grounds laid to agree to the motion proposed. Was this argument admissible, when the motion went no farther than to appoint a Committee to inquire into the grounds which had occasioned the present state of irritation in Ireland? Had not the noble mover given sufficient reasons for appointing a Committee, when he had affirmed, that in his mind he never knew the state of Ireland to be so truly alarming. But in the eyes of the noble earl who spoke last every thing was perfectly safe, every thing perfectly quiet in that country. It might appear so to him; but he would tell the noble earl that it was the stillness which preceded the storm; it was the fire concentrated bursting afterward" with irresistible fury, and threatening the surrounding country with general destruction. The subject was so portentous, as a noble friend of his (lord Grenville) had expressed himself on a former night, that it must force itself into notice, it must imperiously call forth the attention of their lordships. It were folly and blindness to suppose that it could be delayed any longer—it had been delayed too long. The noble earl had established many nice distinctions about rights—he knew but one, that which separated natural from political rights. The former constituted the birth-right of every British subject—they consisted in an equal participation of the blessings of the constitution with his fellow-citizens, and they could not be forfeited but by a legal judgment pronounced against an individual for some crime, and not by sweeping statutes against unborn generations. Political rights were of a different nature: they resulted from political arrangements, and the Roman Catholics of Ireland had never
461460459The Earl of Moira
454453452451450 began by observing, that he sincerely hoped the impression made by the noble marquis's speech on his antagonists, would not operate less powerfully on his friends. He could not avoid thinking, that had the sentiments which he had that evening expressed been communicated in the cabinet to his colleagues, it was not probable that they would have incurred that criminality which might now justly be charged upon them. He was, on his own part, ready to profess his entire acquiescence in the principle laid down by the noble marquis, that the right of the Catholics to the object of their claims, was founded on the opinion entertained by the legislature as to the compatibility of those objects with the interests and security of the empire. So long as obvious considerations of this nature should dictate political restrictions, such restrictions were justifiable. But when the necessity that imposed them ceased, that moment the right revived; and it became the imperious duty of the legislature, and of every individual composing it, to take immediate steps for accomplishing its restoration. He also agreed, with yet more cordiality, in another position of the noble marquis, namely that it did concern the best interests of every nation to demolish all exclusive systems, and to remove, as destructive and fatal distinctions, those institutions that deprived any particular class or description of persons, of an equal enjoyment of the benefits and advantages of the society at large. He wished, therefore, to inquire how, when urging these arguments, and supporting these principles, the noble marquis could come to the conclusion which he had thought proper to adopt. What was there in his great and varied experience in different countries and different situations: what was there in the history of his correspondence with America, or in his negociations in Spain, to lead him to the belief, that if three million of inhabitants might be safely admitted to a full participation of the rights and privileges of their fellow countrymen, there was no danger, no injustice, in continuing to exclude them? With respect to the question of time, it appeared to him, that no period could be more appropriate for an ample
454453452451450The Marquis of Lansdowne
466 expressed his hearty concurrence in the motion of his noble friend, which had for its object the inquiry into a subject, at the present moment of paramount importance, and he advised ministers not to neglect that opportunity, which might perhaps be the last that was offered them of considering seriously the reasonable claims of the Catholics of Ireland. Their proceedings had been stigmatized by many noble lords as violent and menacing. What threats had they held out? None that he could discover; and they originated only in the disturbed and alarmed imaginations of the advisers of the crown. The Catholics did not
466The Earl of Darnley
475 said, he would appeal to the noble earl who spoke last, the House, and the country, to say whether any thing could be more hostile to the Catholic cause than the conduct of the noble lords who had pressed it forward on the present occasion. The question was twofold. Whether the conduct of the government with regard to the Convention act, was reprehensible? and whether the question of the measure itself was one that ought to be entertained? The noble earl undertook not only to arraign ministers, but the court of King's-bench, and the chief judge, who, in learning, in talent, and in all the great qualities which rendered a man estimable and beloved in society, was inferior to none. But there was no argument in the observations of the noble earl on this head, nor could any thing be more void of foundation, than his attempt to shew that the Convention act did not apply to the case of the Catholic Committee? The meaning of the word 'pretence' was clear from our own act of Charles, and bore that interpretation in law which the law officers of the crown had given it on the present occasion. In ex-
475The Earl of Liverpool
474473472471470469468 most ably supported the motion forgoing into a committee. He said that he had seldom before addressed their lordships under feelings of greater embarrassment—not that there was any thing in the subject before them peculiarly difficult, clouded or mysterious—not that he felt that there were any considerations of peculiar delicacy or caution, that ought to deter him from a full and frank discussion of its merits. And sure he was that his embarrassment did not arise from the consciousness of having to contend with any formidable reasoning against the motion; for he had hitherto listened to catch one single argument against it, and he had listened in vain. His difficulty therefore laid in attempting to answer what did not admit of a reply, and to refute by argument what defied all argument. Their lordships would believe, therefore, that he did not, at that late hour, rise for the purpose of restating what had been already so forcibly put, and what there had not been yet even an attempt to answer; but he could not sleep quietly upon his bed that night, if he were to leave the House after hearing what he had heard within its walls, without making his solemn protest in the name of the united kingdom, against the folly and the madness of that blind, selfish, and illiberal intolerance which had brought these countries into danger, and threatened them with no distant ruin. They had heard that night sentiments from two noble earls, that filled him with surprise and concern; concern that such sentiments should be heard at that time of day and in that place; surprize that either of those noble earls could have given utterance to them. The noble earl who spoke last, had revived an argument, if argument it could be called, which it
474473472471470469468Earl Grey
428427426425424 declared that he felt himself little able to do justice to the subject now before the House, which he agreed with the noble earl with whom the motion had originated, in thinking, was one of considerable importance. He could not agree with the noble earl, however, in the view he had taken of the matter, but rather concurred in the very different view of it so ably stated by the noble earl on the other side, both as to the stale of Ireland, and the causes to which that state was to be attributed. The noble earl who had made the motion, argued the case as a matter of right, and at the same time seemed to contend for it as being a right which pertained not to the great body of the people, but as one which belonged only to the men of rank, wealth, consideration, and consequence, who, as such, were entitled to all the privileges existing, or which ought to exist, in a free country. The arguments of the noble lord in the
428427426425424Viscount Sidmouth
462 believed that if the House went into a committee they would go there not to deliberate, but to surrender at discretion: to surrender the church of England to the catholic dominion. It became them then to consider whether it was worth while to do any thing for the church of England, or whether we should supinely render up those privileges and rights she received from our ancestors. He had always been disposed to grant every indulgence to the Roman Catholics of Ireland: he had always been disposed to grant them every right: but he was not prepared to go the length which some noble lords seemed to be: his was not that violent "love which out-ran the pauses of reason." There was a something in the Roman Catholic church which made it dangerous to concede to any of its claims. This had been its character in all ages, and this was its character now. It was still under the spiritual direction of an authority, which authority itself was subjected to the controul of Buonaparte: and what might not such a union produce, injurious to this country? But, he would ask, if every thing were granted to the Roman Catholics which they now demand, was it in human nature that they should stop short there? Would the feelings of the clergy, or of the laity, permit this? Would they not afterwards seek the same participation of honours in the church which they now require in civil and military offices We should not shut our eyes to this danger, while we were so sensibly alive to the probable alienation of four millions of people. These were his sentiments, and he should think he betrayed his duty to that House, his duty to his sovereign, and his duty to himself, did he not freely deliver them. He should be at all times, and under all circumstances, averse from going into a committee, without any outline of what plan was to be pursued, as it could only tend to excite the expectations of the people of Ireland, without, perhaps, offering any certainty of doing that which they would anticipate. He thought it necessary that a stand should be made where we now were; nor could
462Lord Mulgrave
455 argued in favour of the motion, contending, that it was of vital importance to the empire; and that at such a momentous crisis as the present, the country ought not to be deprived of the active and hearty co-operation of so large a portion of its population. The security of every free government, and its characteristic superiority over every other, consisted in the feeling as well as acknowledgment on the part of the subjects of such a country, that they had an interest in its state and its maintenance. Let noble lords look at Ireland, and the manner in which it had been ruled from time immemorial, and he need not then ask them, if it were possible that the Irish people could entertain such a sentiment as that which he had described towards the government of England? Why had this country been so long able to contend with the usurper of France, but because we had
455The Earl of Carysfort
418417 entertained all due deference to the opinions just delivered, but the chief impression they had left upon his mind was, that the noble earl had not condescended to pay attention to the able and comprehensive speech of the noble mover; and scarcely a sentence uttered had been in answer to it. The noble earl had stated a most extraordinary hypothesis with regard to the recent conduct of the Catholics, which could scarcely be seconded by any person who had remarked the late proceedings of that body. He had also passed a warm eulogium on the character of a noble duke with whom he was connected in bonds of relationship and friendship, at the head of the Irish government, and for whom he entertained unfeigned esteem; but in contemplating a question of the importance now under discussion, he felt it necessary to separate his private from his public conduct: and although the noble duke might have been misled, he was convinced that he had never acted with wilful injustice. In the sister kingdom was exemplified this strange anomaly, that while the majority of the people over whom authority was exercised was of the Roman Catholic persuasion, the government itself was Protestant, and while four-fifths of the population were excluded from their most important privileges, one fifth only engrossed every, office of honour and emolument in church and state. The applications to parliament on this subject had been numerous, and the disappointments as frequent, arising from various causes, but chiefly from the intolerant spirit exhibited by the British government, which if now overcome would contribute more than any other measure that could possibly be devised to the tranquillity and pros-
418417The Duke of Bedford
423 stated himself to be satisfied as to the necessity of an inquiry into the policy of the measures which had been adopted with respect to the Catholics. He said, that similar proceedings to those which had recently aroused the suspicions of government, had taken place in Ireland during his administration in 1805, and that so far was, he or any of the persons connected with him in the government, from being apprehensive of any ill consequences from them, that they had received every countenance and support. Whatever might be now thought on the subject, it was then his opinion, and he had thereby governed his conduct, that the application of the Catholics to the legislature would, in all probability, receive more attention and respect, when it was known that it had been forwarded by a numerous and respectable assembly of country gentlemen, and other individuals, whose rank or wealth entitled them to consideration; and he recollected that it was in contemplation at the time to send a deputation to London, with the petition, composed of such persons, as a further means of imparting to it that dignity which it seemed to be now thought it could not receive from any thing of the
423The Earl of Hardwicke
445444443442441440439 declared, that he approached the interesting cause of the Roman Catholics, with a solicitude for its success which could not be surpassed, even by the ardour of the noble earl. From the first dawn of his reason to the present hour, his anxiety for the effectual relief of the Roman Catholics of Ireland had been the warm sentiment of his heart, confirmed and animated by successive experience and reflection, and by the deliberate exercise of his judgment, not unaccustomed to the practical consideration of great affairs of state: he was born, bred, and educated in these principles of rational liberality, equally remote from intolerant bigotry, and from licentious disregard of established order. He had alleys supported every former proposal for the relief of the Roman Catholics: if for a moment, in a period of peculiar and extraordinary embarrassment, he had suspended the active exertion of his opinions on this subject, the suspense had been to him most painful and irksome; it had been occasioned merely by a conviction, that more danger was to be apprehended to the Roman Catholics, and to the state, from a premature attempt to urge their just claim, than from a prudent delay of that claim, in submission to the character and circumstances of the times.445444443442441440439Lord Wellesley
449448"Aut moriere simul."—"Huc tandem concede—Hæc Ara tuebitur Omnes,447446, therefore, could not censure the solicitude of the Roman Catholics to obtain those additional advantages, which naturally grew out of past concessions, and which were almost the necessary result of former gifts. From this disposition, he inferred no defect of gratitude or excess of expectation. The sentiment thus displayed by the Roman Catholics was implanted in the human heart, and congenial to the spirit of every free constitution.449448"Aut moriere simul."—"Huc tandem concede—Hæc Ara tuebitur Omnes,447446Lord Wellesley
467 said, that the changes of opinion which were asserted to have taken place in the minds of many Protestant gentlemen, instead of being grounds for acceding to the claims of the Catholics, were proofs that the Catholic interest was paramount in Ireland; and their lordships should take care how they went into a committee the consequences of which might be highly dangerous. It was not his intention to go into all the legal arguments advanced by the noble baron (Erskine); but it was sufficient for him to say, that the construction put upon the Contention act by the judges, was strictly conformable to what he knew to be the intention of its framers. He entirely agreed in the principles laid down by the noble marquis (Wellesley) that if the restrictions which existed were necessary, they ought to be continued, if they were not, they ought to be removed. That the former was the case, he had no doubt, and nothing could give him more satisfaction than to be able to entertain a different opinion. Many well-meaning persons imagined that the peace, prosperity, and security of Ireland depended on the concession of the Catholic claims; but he believed that it would be the fruitful source of discord, and severe struggles for power. The noble earl then argued against the bringing forward the present motion at this juncture,
467The Earl of Buckinghamshire
465bona fide464463 expressed his surprise that the motion of his noble friend should be objected to, because there was no renewed petition of the Catholics before the House. That very circumstance, in his mind, made the present moment the most auspicious for considering them. It was notorious that the Petitions were now preparing in every part of Ireland, and might be expected to be soon pressed upon parliament with all the bitterness of unmerited and disappointed suffering; and surely nothing could be more absurd in the mouths of those who refused to listen to the Catholics when they besieged us with their complaints, that there were now no complaints before us.—We were asked on the contrary, by his noble friend, for that very reason spontaneously to consider the entire condition of Ireland, in order that our policy towards her might have all the becoming grace of pure and voluntary justice.—Most of the difficulties which were now pressed against the Catholics, and which involved the whole empire in so much danger at this critical period, had arisen from the long continued obstinacy of refusing even to consider their case.—In the beginning, we heard nothing of the Veto, nor of any other terms; the Catholics looked up to us with confidence and hope at no very distant period, and all that could be now complained of against them was the supposed breach of a law, which, if broken, it was plain they did not intend to disobey. There was nothing in the Commissioners' Speech on the first day of the Session, representing Ireland to be in any state of disorder requiring even the notice of parliament, which was a demonstration that government did not impute any treasonable, designs to the Catholic body, but only the misconstruction of a law, which the courts in Ireland were settling in the ordinary course of legal proceedings.465bona fide464463Lord Erskine
 concluded by saying that he should be ready to give up these opinions when the House might be afterwards assembled in its judicial character. He should then listen to the arguments at the bar for a contrary construction, with impartial attention, and should feel no kind of embarrassment in declaring himself convinced by them; but as the breach of this law had been set up as of itself a complete bar to entering now upon the consideration proposed by the motion, he had felt himself bound to give his opinion now.Lord Erskine
 said, he rose to second the motion with considerable diffidence, in now addressing their lordships for the first time. He could not however justify to himself the neglect of an opportunity upon so important an occasion of expressing his sentiments. He concurred in all that had been urged by his noble friend, and he trusted that all their lordships must see the necessity of agreeing to the proposed inquiry—must see the wisdom and the policy of conciliating the great mass of the population of Ireland. To such a line of policy he was a warm friend, thinking it the only means of rendering the empire safe and secure, by the firm and sincere union of all classes of the poeple.The Duke of Devonshire
477sine qua non476 did not rise to speak until after 5 o'clock in the morning; at which hour it was not his intention to trouble their lordships with many words. He began by stating that the moderation and humility of the speech of the noble earl who spoke last, formed a decided contrast with that strong spirit of bigotry and intolerance which distinguished his entrance into office, when the worst passions of the people were excited, and the nation disgraced by the scandalous "No Popery" cry excited by himself and his colleagues; his moderation would then have done him credit, but the Catholics, he believed, entertained
477sine qua non476Lord Grenville
 said, he did not rise to oppose the Bill, but he thought it incumbent on him to state his reasons for not doing so. He had on former occasions maintained, and still maintained the principle, that it was impolitic to stop the distillation from grain, because such a measure tended to the discouragement of the agriculture of the country, and he was convinced that to keep up the distillation from grain was the best method of insuring a supply of food for a year of scarcity, when it should become absolutely necessary to prevent the consumption of grain in the distilleries. It was very questionable, whether the produce of the late harvest had been so deficient as had been stated; but under the circumstances in which we were placed, and when scenes were exhibited in the country which had never before been seen in it, he thought it would be better to lean to the safe side, and not to run the risk of increasing any scarcity that already existed. It was upon this ground, therefore, that he did not oppose the Bill; the measure was, however, very objectionable in another point of view. His Majesty's ministers having the means of ascertaining the deficiency in the produce of the late harvest, ought undoubtedly to have called parliament together for the purpose of taking the earliest possible steps to counteract the evil, or if there was any inconvenience in assembling parliament, they ought to have acted upon their responsibility in stopping the distilleries, and come to parliament for an indemnity. As it was, a quantity of spirits had already been distilled from grain, sufficient, in many parts of the country, for the consumption of the year, and the present measure could only apply to the quantity distilled for the succeeding year. He thought it right to say a few words before he sat down upon the observations which had been made upon the rejection of a similar measure by the House last session, which had been brought up from the Commons. Nothing could be more unfounded than those observations, as there was not at that period any scarcity to justify suspending the distillation from grain, and therefore the House acted perfectly right in rejecting the Bill.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that ministers bad resorted to a more unconstitutional mode than the one he had pointed out, instating to the distillers, that the distillation from grain would be stopped, and thereby intimating that the voice of parliament went for nothing, and that the decision of the executive government was every thing.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that when the petitions came before the executive government, a decision was taken upon them, and it was intimated to the parties interested, that a proposition would be made to parliament to suspend the distillation from grain, leaving them to pursue their own course. Was there any thing unconstitutional in this?Earl Bathurst
 said that no time bad been lost in bringing forward the present measure. It was always difficult, in the early part of the season, to ascertain the extent of any deficiency in the produce of the harvest. The best criterion was the prices; and when it was found that the harvest had turned out so much more unproductive than general report had at first assumed, a decision was taken to stop the distillation from grain; and subsequent to that decision, no prorogation of parliament took place. As to the executive government taking upon itself to issue an order to stop the distilleries, he thought it an unjustifiable measure, at least one that could only be justified by the greatest possible necessity, and certainly a measure highly unconstitutional.Earl Bathurst
492 entirely agreed with his noble friend who had just sat down, that it would have been highly unconstitutional for the executive government to have taken upon itself to have issued an order to stop the distilleries, and that it was a measure which could only be justified by extreme necessity. His Majesty's ministers, however, had it in their power to summon parliament to meet in fourteen days, and therefore they had the means of bringing the subject earlier into discussion. He regretted, however, to observe, that the unconstitutional mode of petitioning the executive government instead of the parliament, was fast gaining ground among the people. Instead of waiting to petition parliament, petitions were addressed to the executive government, for them to take steps to stop the distillation from grain, and even the citizens of London, meeting in the very metropolis where the parliament assembles, had adopted this mode of petitioning the executive government. With respect to the Bill before the House, he was inimical to the principle of stopping the distillation from grain, nor could be even go so far as his noble friend near him, in considering it as a principle, that the suspension of the distillation from grain ought to be resorted to in a year of scarcity, because he thought that even setting op that principle tended to discourage the agriculture of the country. Under the present circumstances, however, of the country, he was not disposed to press the reluctance which he felt to agree to a measure of this nature. He was not so much influenced to this conduct by the internal state of the country—a state which, in one populous part of it,
492Lord Grenville
 said, be wished to ask the noble lord opposite, whether it was the intention of his Majesty's government to give any explanation to parliament, respecting the disturbances that existed in, and about the neighbourhood of Nottingham, disturbances which had now been going on for nearly a twelvemonth, gradually increasing in the numbers concerned in them, and in the extent of the depredations committed, and exhibiting as they increased principles and objects of a most formidable character. He did not mean, uninformed upon the subject as he was at present, to impute blame to his Majesty's government, but when disturbances of so formidable a nature, so dangerous to the peace and so injurious to the character of the country, had been going on for so long a period, and instead of diminishing, appeared to be increasing in violence, he thought it was due to parliament that some explanation should be given, as to what measures had been taken by government to suppress them.Lord Holland
603 said, he had no hesitation in giving what explanation he could respecting the disturbances which unhappily existed to a considerable extent in the county of Nottingham, disturbances in which men were combined to destroy their own comforts, and even their own means of subsistence, and at the same time adopting a system which had naturally excited alarm. There might be riots more alarming in appearance, but arising from a sudden ebullition of resentment, and therefore easily quelled in a short time; but the system adopted in the county of Nottingham undoubtedly gave those disturbances a new character. It would not, of course, be expected, that on the present occasion he should enter into a detail of the circumstances attending these disturbances. His Majesty's government were fully sensible of the importance of putting an end to these excesses, and whenever the subject came before the House, he was persuaded it would be found that they had not been inattentive or remiss in taking those measures which circumstances required. Two of the most intelligent magistrates had been sent from London to Nottingham, with all the means which they could command, in order to take such steps as might
603The Earl of Liverpool
 was not quite sure that he had understood the noble lord: what he meant was, that it was highly necessary that some inquiry should be instituted in parliament respecting these disturbances, particularly as they had (if he was not much misinformed), within the last two or three weeks assumed a still more formidable character than they had hitherto displayed, and many days ought not to elapse before the inquiry was instituted.Lord Holland
 observed, that what he meant to have said was, that his Majesty's government were now taking measures, which must bring the subject immediately before parliament.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that as so many months had elapsed whilst ministers were in contemplation, it was highly expedient that they should not be allowed to contemplate any longer.Lord Holland
 contended, that the riots and disgraceful scenes which had occurred at Nottingham, might all be traced to the system and conduct of his Majesty's ministers, in reducing the commerce of the country to a gambling speculation. It thence arose that there was a great demand for articles of manufacture one week, and none the next, and the persons employed had one week much higher wages than usual, and the next their wages were reduced far below the usual standard. Was it not to be expected that men thus reduced from high wages to a state of poverty, would become discontented and riotous? He thought that parliament should not wait for any suggestion from ministers, but that they ought to institute an inquiry, to precede any measure suggested by ministers.The Earl of Lauderdale
 expressed his satisfaction that this subject had been again taken up by the noble and learned lord, viewing the motions now made as an anticipation of the noble lord's intention to renew the bill which he brought forward last session. The pledge he had given upon the subject, was a heavy burden upon his shoulders; and he should most sincerely rejoice to see it again taken up by the noble and learned lord, who, from his professional knowledge, was so much better qualified to do it justice. Something he was convinced must be done, and that very speedily, to ameliorate the condition of a numerous class of persons who were daily suffering oppression through the neglect and inattention of the legislature.—The Earl of Moira
 rose to give notice of his intention, in the course of a short time, to bring forward a motion relative to the Orders in Council. Without entering into any detail, he thought it necessary to state that there were two views in which the subject might be considered. The one was, the effect produced by the Orders in Council upon our negociations with the United States of America: and the other, the effect produced by them upon the commerce and prosperity of the country. Without giving up for himself, or any other noble lord, the right of interfering with respect to our negociations with America, if it should be thought necessary he would merely mention that his motion would be confined to the latter view of the subject, namely, the effect of the Orders in Council upon the commerce, the manufactures, and the resources of the country. He wished to name rather a distant day, and would therefore move that the House be summoned for Monday fortnight.The Marquis of Lansdowne
689l denied the inference drawn by the noble earl; and maintained, that if the finances of the country were thoroughly examined, it would be found—he did not mean to say that we should be unable to resist a foreign foe, but—that it would be impracticable to carry on those wild projects in we were engaged. Would the noble earl affirm, that if the Bank were to withdraw 5,000,000689lThe Earl of Lauderdale
690llllllll moved the order of the day for the third reading of the King's Household Bill, and observed, that he would now take the opportunity of explaining the subject with reference to the three Bills on the table, all forming part of the same arrangement, namely, the King's Household Bill, the Household Officers Bill, and the Regency Expences Bill. His lordship then adverted to what had passed in the last session of parliament when the Regency was under consideration, and observed, that whatever opinions might be entertained of the improbability of the King's recovery, they must nevertheless legislate upon the possibility of his recovering, so as to resume the exercise of the royal authority. His lordship then explained the object of the Bills, to appropriate 100,000690llllllllThe Earl of Liverpool
 said he would state that at a future opportunity; and also apprize the noble earl, if he wished it, of the terms of his motion.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 agreed with the noble baron, that it was certainly true, the subject had the option of petitioning on such an occasion, either the executive or the legislature. It was one, however, on which he did not mean to lay down either course as a general rule; perhaps in the case before them, the petitioners had taken the most correct course. He should entertain a considerable objection to a motion such as the noble baron seemed to have in contemplation; but every information on the subject which he thought could be consistently communicated, he had no objection to afford.The Earl of Liverpool
688 contended that his noble friend had taken an erroneous view of the subject. The produce of the year ending the 5th of January, 1812, was a mere trifle short of that of the year ending the 5th of January, 1810, but because it was not so great as that of the year ending the 5th of January, 1811, the
688The Earl of Harrowby
 wished to know which of the orders in Council the motion of the noble marquis would refer to?Earl Bathurst
, after presenting two petitions from imprisoned debtors, observed, that notwithstanding parliament had so recently passed an insolvent act, he understood that the prisons were again almost as full as before. With the view, therefore, of obtaining information upon this subject, he moved for Accounts of the number of persons confined for debt on the 1st of May 1811, the day on which the last act took effect: the number discharged under that act, and the number in confinement on the 5th of February 1812.Lord Redesdale
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the noble earl, he was not desirous of pressing such a motion; but a great deal upon the subject was already unfortunately known to the public.Lord Grenville
lll687l adverted to the observation he had made on a former evening relative to a statement which had gone forth to the public, of the comparative state of the produce of the consolidated fond in the years ending the 5th of January 1811 and 1812, namely, that the deficiency in the latter year, as compared with the former, amounted to only 2,000,000lll687lLord Grenville
686 expressed his concurrence with the sentiments entertained by the noble marquis. As to the very injurious tendency of the measures alluded to, independent of the effect they might have on any pending negociation with the United States, he was decidedly of opinion
686Lord Grenville
691 observed, that the Bill was such that he could not entirely approve of, although he was perfectly aware of the difficulty attending a task in making a provision for a case so new and distinct from any former situation of things. He agreed with the noble Secretary of State, that it was an essential object for their lordships to have in view, that the arrangement to be formed was not in its nature necessarily permanent, and that as their hopes had been hitherto unhappily disappointed, so their fears might be agreeably undeceived. His first objection to the plan now submitted was, that it was intricate, involved, and obscure, whereas in his opinion, on such an occasion, it ought not merely to be clear and intelligible, but so clear and intelligible, that every man in the kingdom could understand it. He was not prepared to argue the question of the Bill on the principle of the sufficiency or excess of the particular sums appropriated to different purposes. All their lordships undoubtedly felt the necessity of supporting now as well as at any former time, the dignity and state belonging to the exercise of the functions of royalty, and to the person in whatever situation, or labouring under whatever calamity, who continued to wear the crown. They all felt that it was not merely for a-sick person, but a sick king, for whom provision was to be made. He had often lamented that in all the arrangements of the civil list, two objects should have been combined so obviously dissimilar as the provision for the civil government of the country, and the expenditure for the royal household. This was not the proper opportunity for entering into such a consideration, but he did think it, in due time, a subject highly worthy of their lordships attention. An extreme case might, indeed, occur, which would render it expedient to make some alteration with reference to this arrangement, but except in such an extreme case, it was unquestionably the duty of the legislature to respect the contract which bad been entered into between the country and his Majesty, when he was competent to give or to withhold his assent. Upon the subject of the excesses incidental to the civil list,
691Lord Grenville
706705 rose in pursuance of notice to move the Thanks of the House to lord Wellington, for the capture of Ciudad Rodrigo. In the consideration of questions of this nature, there were two points, his lordship observed, which more particularly called for attention, namely, the importance of the place wrested from the enemy, and the value of the effort used to obtain possession of it. He did not mean to say, that either of these might not, in some cases, be a sufficient ground for voting the Thanks of the House, but in the present instance, both considerations combined to call upon the House to confer that high honour. Of the importance of Ciudad Rodrigo, there could be no doubt; it was the only fortress of note on the north-eastern frontier of Portugal, and on the north-western frontier of Spain. It was originally erected by the Spaniards as a point of defence against any invasion from Portugal, and also as a place of arms to facilitate offensive operations in that country, and the circumstances connected with the current of the river on which it was placed, rendered it in both points of view highly important. By its capture, the defence of Portugal was rendered complete, and at the same time a way was opened into almost the centre of Spain.—Having thus mentioned the importance of this fortress, he thought it necessary to state a few circumstances, to shew why the capture of it by the enemy in 1810 could not be prevented. It was well known, as stated by the French commander in chief himself, that the French force destined for the attack on Portugal, was 110,000 men; of this force 27,000 laid siege to Ciudad Rodrigo. Lord Wellington at that time had only with him 17,000 British, and 14,000 Portuguese, the latter completely untried. The British commander in chief never lost sight of the importance of relieving the place, if possible, and to the last moment had the object in view, but the Portuguese troops being then completely untried, it became a consideration of prudence how far it was advisable to try them under circumstances peculiarly disadvantageous. It was also to be considered, that the allied army must have fought the enemy with the Agueda in their rear, and that even if they had defeated the covering army, still, with the river in their rear, and embarrassed as they neces-
706705The Earl of Liverpool
 said he took the first opportunity on his return to town, of calling their lordships' attention to a subject, which, whatever others might think, he considered to be of great importance. He lamented that a Kill prohibiting the granting of Offices in Reversion had been lost in the House of Commons, and he could not but consider the decision as an instance of great in-consistency. He was at a loss to conceive what arguments could have been urged to induce the rejection of such a measure. It surely could not heve been argued that it was of too trifling a nature to deserve the attention of the House, for if it were of a trifling nature, why not pass a measure so consolatory to the feelings of the people. It could not surely have been argued that the passing of it would have engendered a difference between the two Houses of Parliament, because that might easily have been got rid of by agreeing to a temporary bill, as in a former instance. But whatever might have been the arguments on which the rejection of such a Bill was founded, he could not but consider it as deeply to be lamented, inasmuch as the passing of the Bill would have been a first step towards the extinction of that system of corruption which unhappily prevailed; and would so far have gratified the just expectations of the people. The continuance of the practice of granting Offices in Reversion was greatly to be deprecated, pregnant as it was with every species of underhand transactions. It was probable, however, that a Bill would come before their lordships for suspending this practice for a limited time; and he trusted that if such were the case, the suspension would not be merely for a year, but for 20, 30, or even 50 years. If such should not be the object of the Bill, he gave notice that he should propose to extend the suspension for a considerable period, in order that they might not be called upon to consider it from year to year, merely as a temporary measure. If such a Bill did not come before their lordships within a reasonable time, he gave notice that it was his intention to propose a measure of that description.Earl Grosvenor
826, seeing a noble lord at the head of
826Lord Holland
 said he had not received the commands of his royal highness the Prince Regent, to lay any of the Papers alluded to by the noble lord before the House. If the noble lord, however, would give notice of a day for a motion upon the subject, he should then be prepared to state distinctly to the House, whether or not it would be improper to communicate the correspondence moved for.Marquis Wellesley
 said he was afraid he had been misunderstood by the noble lord. What he wished, in order to ascertain whether he should give notice of a motion was, to know whether it would be improper to communicate any part of the correspondence. Without having any extraordinary confidence in ministers, a confidence so far would of course be conceded to them, namely, that they having the management of a negociation would be the best judges whether it was improper or not to communicate any part of the correspondence. It was with this view that he asked the question.Lord Holland
 repeated that he had no commands from his royal highness the Prince Regent to lay any of the correspondence before the House, but that if the noble lord gave notice of a day for his motion, he should then be prepared distinctly to state his opinion upon the subject.Marquis Wellesley
857856, in rising to move an Address to his Royal Highness, in answer to this communication, observed, that the first object to which he desired to call their lordships' attention, was, that the act of conferring upon lord Wellington a higher rank in the peerage, was the first exercise of the Prince Regent's unrestrained prerogative. The reason why he adverted to this peculiar circumstance was, that, while all must be sensible how well earned these honours had been,—while the country must feel the highest satisfaction at their being conferred; considering the foundation on which they rested,—and while lord Wellington himself must feel gratified at this acknowledgment of his merits, he, their lordships and the whole nation, might have the farther gratification of knowing, that the reward must derive a still brighter lustre from the time and manner in which it was given. He wished to direct their lordships' attention to this circumstance, also, as a test of the high gratification which his Royal Highness would always have in rewarding public men for public services—as a test that he regarded his prerogative as vested in him for such important purposes—as a test that he never would feel so thoroughly pleased at its exercise, as when he employed it in paying the just tribute of honour and applause to undoubted and distinguished merit. Every class in the community must feel gratified at this first act of his Royal Highness after the termination of the restrictions. The public must look with the highest satisfaction on this proof of attention to one who had deserved so well of, his country; while those who were engaged in the most important of public
857856The Earl of Liverpool
859lllll858 rose, certainly not to oppose the Address, but to endeavour to persuade their lordships to extend the grant considerably. Whenever these honours were conferred for great and distinguished services, they ought to be accompanied with a fortune, sufficient not only to enable the individual to support his dignity, but sufficient to enable his posterity to maintain it without becoming dependents on the crown. Under this impression, he thought that ministers had
859lllll858Earl Grosvenor
966 observed, that as the present Bill contained some enactments of a novel nature, it was necessary he should state to the House some of those grounds upon which he thought that it ought to pass into a law. The transactions which had taken place, and were still going on in the county of Nottingham, were pretty well known to most of their lordships, and he rose to state that no exertions were wanting on the part of government to remedy the evil and ensure the return of tranquillity and order under the existing laws'; and this he believed was the conviction of those most conversant on the subject, and who had opportunities of local information. It had at length, however, become necessary to recur to, and express the determination of parliament on the subject. The Bill in question was divided into two parts; which most undoubtedly in some respects proceeded on, different grounds. The second part was introduced with a view to the detection of the offenders, which was the principal object. It went to compel individuals in whose houses frames should be broken, to give information thereof to the magistrates, and the provisions of this part of the Bill were calculated as much as possible to insure detection; and it was deemed necessary to render the offences provided against by the Bill capital. He was aware there existed more difference of opinion on this than on any other point: he knew it would be urged, that such an enactment would only tend to render detection more difficult, and the chance of conviction more uncertain. To this, however, he thought it could be rationally objected, that the terror of the law would in many cases operate, where the apprehension of lesser punishments would be found ineffectual. He, for his own part, could see no well-founded objection to try the effects of the measure which was proposed. The chief difficulty in the present case, he repeated, was the difficulty of detection under the existing applicable law; and he believed at the same time, that the operating dread of the severer punishment would, in the present case, be attended with beneficial effects. In addition to this, he observed, that the act was proposed but as a temporary one, and therefore the legislature would have a future opportunity of revising it, on a consideration of its effects.
966The Earl of Liverpool
974973s. complimented his noble friend who spoke last oh the ability which he had displayed in this his first speech in that House, and expressed his astonishment that ministers had not thought proper to reply to it. The rejection of a Bill brought forward under such circumstances, he admitted to be an evil; but then, the present one was so extremely objectionable, that he felt it his duty to oppose it. He was not much surprised at this measure, for he never was surprised at seeing any thing foolish coming from the present ministers; but the fact was, that the apprehension of such a law had already rendered the chances of detection less probable. This he had from the best authority. But he supposed, when he adverted to the general principle that the severity of the punishment increased the difficulty of detection and conviction, he should be told, that this was speculation and theory. They were for proceeding from day to day, without rudder or compass, as the winds and Waves carried them. But what was the real state of this case? Here was a fact, that the apprehension of such a law had rendered detection more difficult; and yet, in the face of this fact, they proposed to pass the law, as if there had been no other mode of getting at the opinion of parliament. Indeed, such a law was but a very bad way of sending out a strong expression of the opinion of the legislature against this Offence. Our penal code was too thick set with these penalties of death, to render that a very explicit declaration of the sense of parliament as to the enormity of the crime. The people would recollect, that the legislature had declared, that stealing to the value of 40974973s.Lord Holland
 observed, that the two parts of the Bill ought to be taken together, and the object of both united was the prevention of the offence. The outrages at Nottingham originated in a mistaken notion of those concerned in them, that their interests were injured by the introduction of certain improvements in machinery, when the fact was, that all these improvements contributed to their advantage, and that by the conduct they were now persisting in, they were deeply injuring their own interests, and destroying their own comforts. From, however, the plan and system adopted by them, the difficulty of detection had become very great, and the object of the second part of the Bill was to increase the means of detection, whilst the first part of it, by enacting the penalty of death, there was every reason to believe would operate, by the terror of that punishment, to prevent the offence. The prevention of offences was the legitimate object of enacting the punishment of death; and there was every reason to suppose that this object would be attained in the present instance, by combining the terror of this punishment with the increased facility of detection.The Lord Chancellor
975 agreed with the noble and learned lord, that the outrages at Nottingham originated in a mistaken notion of those concerned in them of their own interests, for nothing could be more certain than that every improvement of machinery contributed to improve the condition of persons employed in the manufactures in which such improvements were made, there being in a very short time after such improvements were introduced, a greater demand for labour than there was before. Much, however, of the present distressed state of the manufacturers arose from the system of policy pursued by ministers; and he was satisfied, that before being called upon to pass a
975The Earl of Lauderdale
 was hostile to extending the penal code by the infliction of the punishment of death for this offence, and contended that information ought first to be laid before the House, to prove that all other means had been ineffectual. Much of these outrages were, he thought, to be attributed to the system of policy pursued by ministers, and he lamented that the Prince Regent should have been advised not to make a change in his councils, convinced as the noble earl was, that the result of a change would have been an improved system of finance, an economical expenditure, and a general amelioration of the situation of the country.Earl Grosvenor
 was about to put the question, whenThe Lord Chancellor
 stated, that the wording of the Bill was a matter for discussion in the committee, but the Bill was framed from other bills of a similar nature with reference to machinery.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that it was of importance to know the intent of ministers in proposing a clause in the Bill, inflicting the penalty of death upon the intent to commit the offence described by his noble friend.Lord Holland
 thought that the House ought not to go on in the conisderation of the Bill, until they had some information of what the precise object of ministers was in proposing this Bill; and with that view he moved that the debate be adjourned till Monday.The Earl of Lauderdale
 stated, that the principle of the Bill was to punish a certain offence with death; the mode of carrying that principle into effect, was matter for discussion in the committee.The Earl of Liverpool
979 stated, that un-doubtedly it was the intention of government
979The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that allowing the principle of the Bill to be to punish a certain offence with death, the nature of that offence was a part of the principle of the Bill, and before they could vote for the second reading they ought to be informed what offence it was intended to punish.Earl Grey
 observed, that it was of importance to know what the object of noble lords on the other side was in proposing this Bill. Was it to inflict the penalty of death for the offence stated by his noble friend, as it appeared by the words of the Bill?Earl Grey
ad Grœcas Calendas. contended, that enquiry could answer no useful purpose. If enquiry were to embrace the Orders in Council, the state of the commerce and circulation of the country, the investigation must be indefinite, the outrages at Nottingham must in the mean time go on, and all attempt to suppress them must be postponed ad Grœcas Calendas.The Earl of Harrowby
 rose, and (for the first time) addressed their lordships as follows:Lord Byron
978977976 found it impossible to all
978977976Lord Grenville
 said, that what had been stated by the noble lord, was indeed a still stronger reason for adjourning the debate till Monday. Here was a minister, who came down to parliament to inflict the punishment of death upon his fellow-citizens, but for what offence that minister knew not. It was in truth for the credit of ministers themselves that this debate should be adjourned, in order that they might be enabled to explain what offence they intended to punish with death. But whatever they might think, he could not give his vote that the House should be involved in the infamy of going to the second reading of a Bill for inflicting the punishment of death upon their fellow-citizens, without knowing what the nature of the offence was that it was intended to punish.Lord Grenville
10491048resumé1047l.l.1046l.l.l.l.l.1045l.1044l.10431042 said he rose in pursuance of his notice to call the attention of their lordships to the Orders in Council, and to the system of policy which had resulted from those Orders so injurious to the manufacturing and commercial interests of the country, and to the welfare of the state. Had his only motives been to contradict statements made by noble lords, on the other side, of beneficial effects produced by these Orders, he should have delayed his motion until petitions (as they undoubtedly would) had flowed in from all the manufacturing districts of the country, proving in the strongest terms the injurious consequences of those Orders. He, however, did not wish to wait for these petitions, but rather to call their lordships' attention to the subject now, in the hope that they would see the necessity of most seriously considering the state of our commerce and manufactures under the operation of those Orders, while yet they could proceed with deliberate dignity, and ere the subject was forced on their attention in a way less congenial to their wishes, by the loud complaints and addresses of the unfortunate victims of such a system of measures. It was, perhaps, a vain hope, that any thing he could say would have the effect of inducing an abandonment of that pernicious system of policy involved in the operation of the Orders in Council. Yet he trusted their lordships would not refuse to take into consideration a subject
10491048resumé1047l.l.1046l.l.l.l.l.1045l.1044l.10431042The Marquis of Lansdowne
106610651064eo intuitu1063in toto10621061106010591058 said, that he did not mean to follow the noble earl into the long details which he had so clearly and perspicuously explained to their lordships, and for which he had no occasion whatever to make any apology to the House. If he were even disposed to enter into those details, he should be prevented by the want of that accurate official knowledge upon such subjects, which the noble earl, from the situation which he held, must in a very eminent degree possess. Whilst, however, he declined expatiating upon the numerous points embraced in the speech of the noble earl, he felt it would be doing an acceptable thing to their lordships to bring back their attention to the actual motion under consideration, for the appointment of a committee, namely, to inquire into the state of the trade of the country, with reference to the Orders in Council, and to the system of Licences which bad grown out of them. The arguments used by the noble earl, in opposition to this motion, appeared to him to be found-
106610651064eo intuitu1063in toto10621061106010591058Lord Holland
1067 allowed that it was the interest of Great Britain to avoid a war with America, and maintained that she had uniformly acted with the utmost forbearance towards that country. The quarrel, such as it was, had originated with the late ministry; and his Majesty's present ministers were not answerable for any evils resulting from the commercial system. The noble earl took a summary view of the proceedings of the late administration on this subject, and expressed a hope that if any noble lord thought that these measures needed defence, he would call on some noble lord on the other side of the House for such a defence. His lordship then expatiated on the flourishing
1067The Earl of Westmoreland
 explained, that those who supported the motion objected both to the Orders in Council and the mode in which they were relaxed; so that whether the Petition from Hull was against the Orders or their effects, was of no consequence.Lord Holland
 in explanation insisted that it was very material.The Earl of Westmoreland
1069l.l.1068 observed, that the noble earl (Bathurst) had begun in a manner peculiarly hard towards his noble friend the mover of the present question, for His not being able to state the precise Order in Council which he wished to have withdrawn. The nature of the Orders in Council was certainly a subject of no small embarrassment, and nothing could be a stronger argument against their continuance than that such men as his noble friend could not accurately discover their tendency. But really such was the uncertainty with respect to them, that the most experienced traders knew not how to conduct their trade. Whether they were to attend to a notification, to Orders in Council, or to instructions to this or that officer, became a matter of infinite perplexity to them, and of very serious study. The continual changes, however, to which they were subject, gave the merchants of London, who were on the spot from which they issued, a great advantage over the merchants of the outports. The noble earl asked which of the Orders he wished to sec repealed. He would tell the noble
1069l.l.1068The Earl of Lauderdale
10711070 could not bring himself to consider this question merely in a commercial point of view, but should consider the repeal of the Orders in Council at the present moment, as an abandonment of all the principles on which the country had acted in the assertion of her maritime rights. He should also consider it a part of that system of humiliation which ap-
10711070The Earl of Rosse
1073 shortly replied. It was not his intention to consume the time of the House in observing on all that had fallen from noble lords on the other side. For he really thought all they had said had been already satisfactorily answered. The noble viscount had objected to his motion for going into a committee, because as the noble viscount conceived it, licences did not necessarily belong to or form a part of the Orders in Council. This might be so in point of form; but when, to oppose this he shewed that, in point of fact, the two systems were incorporated in one, had he not a right to ask of the noble viscount to go with him into a committee on that subject? By what, he wished to know, could the fact be more effectually proved or disproved than by going into that committee? It had been said, that by entertaining a subject of this kind, the House would give encouragement to that discontent which was supposed to prevail out of that House. Of the force of such an argument he was not aware. Were not noble lords sensible that the more obstinately they shut their doors against complaints, the more would discontent prevail? Were they to hold out, that to the discontented they would never listen, and that it was only when people had nothing to cemplain of that that House would hear them? He,
1073The Marquis of Lansdowne
 adverted to the petition lately presented to the Prince Regent by the manufacturers of Sheffield, praying the repeal of the Orders in Council. He could state, from his own knowledge, that the manufacturers of that part of the country were suffering under the severest distresses, to which they saw no period. Their lordships, he believed, would soon see on their table numerous petitions to a similar effect to that presented to the Prince Regent; and he would implore them at least to give these people the satisfaction of enquiring into the causes of their sufferings, which were almost beyond endurance. It was the opinion of the petitioners, that the Orders in Council were the causes of their distress; and let them not, from a refusal of enquiry, have any ground to say, that their sufferings were inflicted, not by the enemy, but by the hands of their own government. He could assure their lordships that the distresses of the manufacturing districts of Yorkshire, and particularly the clothing districts, were extreme. What had happened in Nottingham was but too well known, and it ought not to excite surprise if similar disturbances were to take place in Yorkshire.Earl Fitzwilliam
1072 said, he had listened with the greatest pleasure to the able and argumentative speech of the noble marquis, who brought this question before the House; but it had failed to produce conviction in his mind of the propriety of an enquiry at the present moment. He declared, that a full share of the responsibility of issuing the Order in Council of January 1807, belonged to himself. He had been strenuous, as some of his noble friends near him knew, in recommending the adoption of that measure. He considered it as founded on that principle laid down in the rule commonly called the rule of 1756, which prohibited to a neutral the advantages of any trade in time of war, which by the law of nations he was not entitled to in time of peace. His objection to the subsequent Order was, that it carried the principle of blockade to too great an extent, and imposed upon the neutral as the price of a continental trade, the necessity of paying a previous tribute to ourselves. He had another and a serious objection also to urge against it, on the ground that it continued to sanction that pernicious indulgence of suffering the neutral to be the carrier of the enemy's colonial trade. Their lordships had seen that Mr. Erskine had made a merit of this indulgence, in his representations to the American government. He was happy to say that, by the Order of April, 1809, part of these objections had been removed. That Order limited the blockade to the coasts of France, Holland, and the northern parts of Italy. In his opinion the system of blockade would proceed much more successfully were the system of trade licences abandoned. There were great abuses in that latter system. Undoubtedly it was expedient to obtain articles of the first necessity, such as grain and naval stores; but, generally speaking, the licence system was injurious, and in no way more so than in the offence which it gave to morals. Besides, it was adverse to, and completely inconsistent with, the principles on which the Orders were founded, namely, to inflict privation on the enemy.—There was one consideration which had great weight is inducing him to vote against the proposition
1072Viscount Sidmouth
10571056105510541053105210511050 regretted that the noble marquis should have thought it necessary, in the latter part of his speech, to touch on our relations with America. It was not his intention to follow the noble marquis over that portion of his subject, for it was obvious that the discussion was unsuited to the time, that the subject could be cleared only by going into the whole statement of our transactions with America, and that this could not be done with propriety while the hope, little as it was, of conciliation remained. He had asked of the noble marquis, when he declared his intention of moving for the repeal of the Orders in Council, whether he was prepared to move for the repeal of all or one; and if one, which was that one. The noble marquis was not prepared at the time with any answer; but at this he did not feel peculiarly surprised. It was true, that if, on any other occasion, any noble lord were to rise, stigmatise a law as unfit to remain on the books, and declare his determination to move for its erasure, he should be a little surprised, that such noble lord was not prepared to say against what particular law he felt so much indignation. But in the present case there was much difference. The words Orders in Council had absolutely become a mere cant; they were used in general without a distinct idea; they were involved in a confusion from which he was not surprised that even the noble marquis had not been able to escape. (Hear.) He really meant this with all respect for that noble marquis, whose speech shewed his abilities; and whose temperance, moderation, and decency of language on a subject where youth, passion, and peculiar situation made temperance so uncommon and so praise-worthy, deserved a higher tribute than it was in his ability to give. He was at a loss, however, to know precisely which were the Orders that the noble lord was desirous to have repealed. The noble marquis had declared at length, that the Orders of 1807 were not the object of his animadversion, as a ground might have at the time existed for them, but that the nature
10571056105510541053105210511050Earl Bathurst
 did not rise to add a single word to the arguments which had been so ably urged in support of the motion, but merely to say, that whatever might be the decision of their lordships upon the present question, he was. persuaded that when the petitions which his noble friend stated to be in preparation were laid on their table, not a man would be found to oppose a deliberate inquiry into the nature and effect of those measures in which the evils so justly complained of by the petitioners, were by them alleged to originate. Whatever might have been said, he could scarcely think it possible that the full consideration of this subject would be then opposed on the grounds of the prosperous state of the manufactures of the country.Lord Grenville
 thought, that some farther delay ought to be allowed, that the nature and object of the Bill might be more fully investigated. Well regulated theatres, he bad no doubt, were highly proper in all large cities, and contributed, not only to the entertainment of the people, but also to the improvement of their morals. He had no objection, therefore, to the measure merely as a Bill for building a theatre; but there were some points in the Bill that deserved mature consideration. It might be expedient, in the progress of it through the House, to turn their attention to the state of the metropolis, with regard to its theatres in general, and to consider the foundation and tendency of the monopoly. He should, therefore, propose the postponement of the second reading till to-morrow se'nnight.The Duke of Norfolk
stated, that the object of the present Bill merely was to extend the time and enlarge the powers for carrying the design of the former Bill into effect. This was its principle, and he saw no reason for the delay proposed by his noble friend. It was of great importance to those concerned, that if the Bill was to pass at all, it should pass speedily. If long delays were allowed, the Bill might be got rid of by a side wind. If his noble friend objected to any of the details of the Bill, the committee was the proper place in which to state them When the Bill should be amended in the committee, some time might be permitted to elapse between the commitment and the third reading.Lord Holland
1076said, that the osten-
1076The Duke of Norfolk
 opposed this also, and contended that the committal at least ought to be fixed for a more distant day. There was no good reason for hurrying the Bill in this manner through the House. The session was not so far advanced that the loss of the Bill could be seriously dreaded merely from a delay of a few days.The Duke of Norfolk
 requested the noble lord, who was a very good lawyer, to come and hear the Scotch cause, and then he would probably alter his opinion.The Lord Chancellor
 rose to move, that the order be discharged. After what had already passed; after the eyes of the noble Secretary of State had been a little opened, he had expected him to have himself moved the discharge of the order. The Bill proposed to punish with death those who entered a house, whether with force or not, and damaged a piece of lace, or stocking frame. The measure, however, was said to be necessary; but their lordships might depend upon it that this law would only make the artful more artful, the cunning more cunning, the mysterious more mysterious. The proper way to conciliate the people, and to prevent these outrages, was to reform abuses; and on this account he regretted the introduction into the Prince Regent's cabinet of a noble lord, who, whatever might be his merits in other respects, was no friend to such a reformation. He would have been in despair, had it not been for the decision of the House of Commons in the case of an office granted by ministers after having been condemned by a committee of that House. No decision had ever given him so much pleasure. The noble earl particularly censured the severity of the measure, which went to inflict the sanguinary penalty of death, upon what might be only an entry into a house. He trusted their lordships would not suffer themselves to be persuaded by ministers into a concurrence in an act, which would be a disgrace to the statute-book, to the character of the country, and which, instead of removing the evil, would increase it, by more widely diffusing the mischief, and driving the unhappy depredators to acts of desperation. He concluded by moving, That the order be discharged.Earl Grosvenor
1078 stated the question to be, whether the punishment of death was really necessary in this case? and when it was admitted that the milder punishment had never been tried, the argument appeared to be decisive against the severer penalty. The evil here to be
1078The Marquis of Douglas
 had the greatest respect for Mr. Davy; but if any of their lordships would come on Wednesday, and sit with him to hear a Scotch cause, with 500 holes under that table, all the philosophers in the world could hardly persuade him that his situation was of a very comfortable nature.The Lord Chancellor
 supported the Bill, and vindicated the conduct of government in acting with every practicable vigilance and exertion to restore tranquillity and order, ere they recurred to parliament for the present measure. His lordship followed the line of argument adopted by his noble friend who spoke last but one, as to the general principle upon which the measure proceeded; and he was convinced the law under the Bill would be administered with a discriminating lenity, and fully acted upon only when the necessity of the case required it. The measure, therefore, had his cordial assent.The Earl of Westmoreland
1083 said he had not heard any noble lord on his side of the House deny that there was distress among the manufacturers, but they had distinctly denied that the distress arose from the Orders in Council; and it was evident that those Orders were blameless, as it had actually happened that the trade had never been more flourishing than since their operation. It had happened that at a late period there had been a sudden excitement of trade; that it had been followed by a glut of the market; and that glut, by distress among the workmen. Nothing was more in the course of things: the same events had been continually occurring, sometimes in war, sometimes in peace. So long as the spirit of speculation existed among traders, and so long as, in this free country, no restraint was put upon any man's use of his money, so long those circumstances must occur from time to time. But the present interposition of parliament was called for, not by the distresses of the workmen, but from a con-
1083The Earl of Liverpool
 argued, that it was not because some discretion must necessarily be left to to a judge, that therefore they were to legislate, leaving all to his discretion. It ought still to be a question as to how much discretion was to be left to the judge.The Earl of Rosslyn
 stated his intention of proposing amendments, to leave out the word' damage, and to insert in different parts of the Bill respecting cutting and destroying frames, utensils, work, &c.' with intent to destroy or render useless,' in order more clearly to define the offence.The Earl of Liverpool
 supported the amendment on the ground that a discretion would be left in the hands of the judge, painful to him, and perhaps injurious to the prisoner in the exercise.Lord Holland
 moved an amendment, making the attempt to destroy frames only a misdemeanor instead of a felony without benefit of clergy, which was agreed to.Earl Grosvenor
 contended, that in order to reach combinations, they must aim at the acts of individuals, and argued that in legislating for the punishment of crimes, much must, of necessity, be left to the discretion of the judge, and that this was proved by constant experience.The Lord Chancellor
1079 had imagined, that after the discussion which had already taken place, there would have been no farther opposition to the Bill. Nothing new had been advanced. Even if he should concede all that had been advanced as to the unwise policy of government, still there was a necessity for this law. An altered policy must take some time to operate: and, in the mean time, an immediate remedy must be applied to the existing evil. The crime was of the most heinous nature and most dangerous tendency, and must be repressed. As to the assertion that this was the last resort of a weak and wretched government, it ought to be recollected that similar laws in similar cases had been passed under the most
1079The Earl of Harrowby
1080said, that the proposition to enact a law subjecting a fellow creature to the punishment of death, was one from which humanity shrunk, and on which reason ought to pause. Nothing but necessity clearly proved could justify its adoption: but where was the proof here? What papers—what documents had been laid before them? None; they had merely the assertion of the ministers that there was a necessity for this measure, and that assertion only; unless the accounts in the newspapers of disturbances were to be considered as proper grounds for that House to proceed upon. Allowing these to be true,—how did they know that the magistrates of Nottingham the meant no disrespect to them) had done their duty? How did they know that the proper means of detection had been used? This Bill was, besides, perfectly inefficient for its own object, and, indeed, in some measure subversive of it. How could they expect that those who were averse to subject these men to the punishment of transportation, would be willing to subject them to the penalty of death? There was a great deal of feeling and humanity in the generality of the people of this country on these occasions." If the law," said they," sub-
1080The Earl of Carlisle
1077 had often suffered se-
1077Lord Mulgrave
 moved for the appointment of a committee, to inquire into the best means of ventilating the place, in which their lordships sat, and adverted to the uncomfortable feeling which must be excited, and which he himself had experienced from the vast number of small holes in the floor. One might catch cold even in a post-chaise in summer, if the chaise were full of small holes. He was the more alive to this subject, from the experience he had had in the courts where he had long practised.Lord Erskine
 had no objection to the committee merely for the purpose of enquiry, but at the same time said, that the plan recommended by Mr. Davy had not as yet had its fair trial. The House had undoubtedly been rendered more comfortable since that plan had been adopted.Lord Grenville
10821081 thought the evil of a deeper nature than noble lords were inclined to admit. The great cause was the bad policy which had plunged our manufacturers into distress. The distress and the cause were spreading together. It was now that the effect of the paper issue was making itself felt through the community; and it was impossible in any case to conceive, why the same evils which had extended on an excessive issue of paper, should not be attended with the same evils here as in all other countries. This was a more prominent cause than even the Orders in Council. His noble friend (the earl of Lauderdale) had imputed the distress to the sudden rise and fall of wages by the sudden demands for manufactures; but even where the wages did not fall, the excessive issue of paper lowered their real value. The same money could not purchase the same quantity of provisions; and unless there was a maximum on the price of the necessaries of life, the working people must be more and more impoverished, even in the nominal receipt of undiminished wages. The great manufacturers worked for foreign markets; the rise of the prices abroad did not keep pace with the rise of the nominal value of the currency at home; and in consequence, they were obliged to tell their workmen that they could not make the prime cost on their materials. The workmen said, and with not less truth, that they could not live by their work; and thus distress; came rapidly upon the most useful and industrious classes of the community. The present system had the direct tendency of
10821081Lord Grenville
 suggested, that it should not be imperative upon the person injured to proceed immediately before a magistrate to prosecute, provided he could shew reasonable cause for his delay.Lord Grenville
 moved to insert words, for the purpose of confining the punishment to offences done in conspiracy and combination.Lord Grenville
replied, that the language he had employed flowed from the feeling by which his mind was impressed. If that feeling was strong, it was excited by the indiscreet measure now brought forward, and the noble lords on the other side were the only persons to be blamed for exciting it, or for its consequences.Lord Grenville
 after the countenance which their lordships had already given to the Bill, did not think it necessary to say any thing now on the subject, except in answer to what had been stated with respect to another Bill before the House. The principle of that Bill was old, and required no great time to settle its application in this instance; but a good deal of difficulty had been experienced in arranging the details, and much time consumed in the necessary communications with the magistrates. This was the reason that the Bill had not preceded the Frame Bill. The present Bill was more simple in its details, whether right or wrong; and with respect to that he would only remark, that it did nothing more than give the same protection to this manufacture which was already enjoyed by other manufactures of a similar kind, carried on by machinery: and it ought also to be remembered that the measure was only temporary.The Earl of Liverpool,
1168 expressed his conviction, that one of the greatest mischiefs attending the present proceeding, was its tendency to mislead the House into an idea that they had corrected the evils in question, when in reality the case would be found widely different; that it would only augment and exasperate the disorder; it was like applying a piece of hot plaister to a cancer, and expecting from such a remedy, the extirpation of the corroding and fatal disorder. In order to eradicate the great and increasing evil, the whole system of the government of the country must be completely and radically altered. It undoubtedly became the justice of the House, to endeavour to extirpate such a dangerous species of offence, but it no less became their justice to endeavour to prevent those distresses which gave rise to them; and to try to ameliorate the situation of the starving manufacturers. They should think and seriously consider what the effect of such a measure must be on the desperation of an individual, divested
1168The Earl of Moira
1169l took an opportunity to address a few observations, relative to this noble and distinguished personage, to the House. He was aware he could not regularly propose any thing on the subject, as there was no Bill referring to it before their lordships. He was induced, however, again, with reference to what he had before said on the subject, to submit to the consideration of the noble Secretary of State, and to his colleagues, whether it would not be fit, when the Bill should be brought forward, to adopt what he should take the liberty again to recommend, namely, that instead of an annuity, an inheritable landed property should be granted to the noble and gallant earl. He thought it most preferable, that a grant should be made to lord Wellington, to the extent of 40 or 50,0001169lEarl Grosvenor
1167, without again entering into his objections to the Bill, could not but observe, that there was another Bill before the House (the Nottingham Watch and Ward Bill), which ought to have preceded the Frame Bill. They ought first to have tried the operation of the other Bill; and, possibly, its effect might have been such, as to preclude the necessity of passing the Frame Bill at all. He should, therefore, still recommend, that the third reading of this Bill should be postponed for some time, till they found what would be the effect of the other. He did not mean to accuse the ministers of cruelty and inhumanity, in hurrying forward a measure of this kind: possibly they might be in possession of information which justified them in proposing it; but then, why not communicate that information to the House, in order to justify their lordships in passing this law? He
1167The Earl of Carlisle
 took the opportunity of stating, that licences granted for vessels sailing from foreign ports, to touch at British ports before sailing to their ports of destination, did not operate to swell the amount of imports and exports, as the cargoes were not entered amongst either.Earl Bathurst
 said, he did not allude to vessels touching at a British port, but where they were entered in the progress of their voyage under licence from foreign port to foreign port. There was another case, however, of which he had just been informed, and which served to shew the fallacy of the accounts of exports and imports—a vessel sailing from America, under a licence from the emperor of France, bound to Bourdeaux, was captured by a British cruizer, and condemned as prize in the Admiralty Court, and then the cargo was sent under a British licence to the very same port to which it was originally destined.The Earl of Lauderdale
1210 said, he would not now enter into the question as to our right to capture a vessel bound to a port under blockade, and to condemn it as prize; but with respect to the alledged fallacy of the accounts of exports and imports, he denied the fact; the amount of the export of British produce and manufactures was distinctly stated in the accounts, and distinguished from foreign produce which had
1210Earl Bathurst
1211 rose and declared his disapprobation of it in its present shape. There were some clauses which he thought highly necessary in order to render it worthy the concurrence of their lordships, and which he meant to propose. His grace then took a view of the progress of the measure, including the act of last session, from its first rise to the Bill now in its last stage before their lordships. The real fact was, that a principle of exclusive right was claimed and acted upon, in these measures, and while it was acted upon, the people of the metropolis could have only two houses adapted for the species of amusement to which the Bill referred. The very great difference between the British metropolis at the periods in which the patents were granted, and at the present day, formed a material part of the consideration. The population of the metropolis was not then one-third equal to what it had now become, and the facts proved, that under the monopoly, the proprietors or managers could not, with their two theatres, accommodate such an increased population, so as to bear a just proportion to the powers of the human voice or the human eyes; in consequence, they were obliged to have recourse to exhibitions of a most unprecedented and extraordinary kind, such as the introduction of the monsters of Africa, and other distant climes, upon the stage, forming loathsome or disgusting spectacles. These practices were to be attributed to the metropolis.—The noble duke then adverted to the private boxes, the principle of which he disapproved. The people of England, he observed, had a right to a general admission to a public theatre—no part of it should be exclusively appropriated to the rich. He should therefore propose the exclusion of the relevant clause. It was upon this general ground that he objected to such exclusive
1211The Duke of Norfolk
 observed, it most forcibly struck him, in reference to the noble duke's proposed enactment, that it would be highly necessary to know what were the rules, laws, and powers, to which these things were subject heretofore. As to what the existing law for such things was, he did not know; but when he was a young man and occasionally frequented a theatre, public boxes were in effect rendered private any night the box-keeper thought proper, on application being made to him for the purpose.The Lord Chancellor
 defended the Bill in its present shape. Referring to the question of private boxes, he observed, that the number of private boxes in the old theatre, was, he believed, 34 or 36. The proprietors, with respect to the regulation, possessed in law the same right which every man had in his own property. He referred to the arrangements proposed in that respect; with regard to the boxes of the prince of Wales, the duke of Bedford, proprietor of the land, and of Mrs. Garrick, who was so considered, in honour of that distinguished person who had so greatly advanced the refinement and reputation of the British stage. The regulation which was made with respect to the sales of the private boxes for a number of years, had the general approbation of the proprietors; in fact, it was one imposed by the proprietors on themselves.The Earl of Rosslyn
1212 then objected to the power given of leasing these boxes for
1212The Duke of Norfolk
 next proposed to add a clause to the Bill, providing that nothing contained in this or the former Bill, should go to recognize the validity of the patent of Charles the 2nd. The ground upon which he did this was, that the report of the committee had stated this patent as recognized by the former act. He then adverted to the absurd monopolies which had been sometimes granted, and yet declared to be illegal; and stated as an instance, a patent granted to one of his ancestors, the earl of Surrey, that every public house in the city of Westminster, must be licensed by him. If this patent had been valid, the successors of that nobleman must have been among the richest men in the world; for they would have had the power of saying, that no one should keep a public house in Westminster without purchasing a licence from them. Commercial monopolies by such patents were too odious to stand long. Theatrical monopolies, being of less importance, were less attended to; but still they stood on the same principle, and ought to be abolished. At present it was at least a question, whether they were legal; but it was the duty of the House to take care that nothing should be done by a side-wind that should appear to recognize them as valid.The Duke of Norfolk
 opposed the clause, on the ground that there was no occasion for it.The Earl of Rosslyn
 agreed perfectly in what had fallen from the noble duke, on the subject of monopolies; and if there were any thing in the Bill that should appear to give the least countenance to the idea that parliament recognized the validity of the patent, he should think that the clause ought to be introduced. He had not examined the Bill sufficiently to enable him to judge whether that was the case or not, and proposed that the farther consideration of the question should be adjourned till to-morrow.The Earl of Lauderdale
 objected to the clause, on the ground that whatever rights the former Bill had given, the persons concerned were now entitled to them; and it would be an act of injustice and had faith to deprive them of those rights.The Lord Chancellor
 did not see how there could be any injustice in securing the public against these persons, acquiring that which they not only had not claimed, but had expressly disclaimed, namely, a legislative recognition of the validity of their patent. If there was any thing in the former act which might, by the ingenuity of lawyers, be tortured into an argument for the recognition of the patent, the doubt ought to be done away, instead of making one error the ground-work of another.The Earl of Lauderdale
 declared himself of the same opinion as the noble duke on the subject of theatrical as well as commercial monopolies; and if there was any reasonable ground of suspicion, that there was any thing in the Bill recognizing the legality of the patent, the adjournment, at least, ought to be agreed to.Earl Grey
1213 did not think that the Bill recognized the validity of the patent; but enough had been stated by the noble
1213Lord Redesdale
 still opposed the clause, on the ground, that there was no such recognition in the Bill.Lord Erskine
 also opposed it, observing; that there was nothing in the Bill recognizing the legality of the patent.Lord Erskine
 said, the noble lord had his thanks for bringing this important subject before the House, but he wished, for the sake of convenience, that an earlier day could be fixed upon for the discussion.The Duke of Norfolk
 said, that the noble lord could not expect an answer to such a question, and he should not give any answer.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought it unnecessary to add any thing to what had been stated by his noble friend, except to avow his concurrence in the sentiments contained in the answer sent by his noble friend. There were some clerical errors in the publication, but they were not of consequence, and did not materially alter the substance. He thought it right, however, to state, that he did not authorise the publication, and how the letter and the answer found their way into the public prints he knew not. He, however, fully concurred in the sentiments expressed in that answer, conceiving them to be those which it was his duty to concur in declaring.Earl Grey
1252 said, the noble lord had hot denied the genuineness of the letter; an answer, purporting to come from two noble lords to that letter, had also been published, and he wished to know if it Was the answer of those noble lords? Understanding that to be the case, he should feel it his duty to call their lordships' attention to the subject on Friday se'nnight. That his royal highness the Prince Regent in writing that letter was actuated by the purest and most patriotic motives he was in duty bound to believe, and in his conscience he was satisfied, that however there might be some unfortunate expressions in the letter, that the object of his Royal Highness was to form an administration on a fair, a liberal, and a broad basis. The melancholy issue was already known, and the darkest and most gloomy prospects now surrounded us. Dangers pressed upon us on every side, whilst the means of averting the ruin which menaced the country were weakened. It was a subject of vital importance to the people, and therefore, however feeble the effort might be, he felt it to be his duty to make an attempt to avert the dangers which threatened us. He again expressed his conscientious conviction, that the object of the Prince Regent was to form an administration on a fair, a broad, and a liberal basis, and he was at the same time convinced that the answer of his noble friends to the letter of his Royal Highness, had been much misunderstood and misrepresented.
1252Lord Boringdon
 mentioned Thursday the 19th instant, which was agreed to, and the Lords were ordered to be summoned for that day.Lord Boringdon
1251 rose, and stated, that he held a printed paper in his hand, to which he wished to call the attention of the House. It purported to be a Letter from the Prince Regent to his royal brother the Duke of York, and bore the signature of his royal highness the Prince. The object of it was to make certain propositions to two
1251Lord Boringdon
 said, that reserving his sentiments till the discussion of the motion, of which notice had been given by his noble friend, he thought it his duty not to be backward in avowing the answer to the letter alluded to by his noble friend to be his. There were some clerical errors in the publication, but they were of little consequence. The substance was the same. The sentiments contained in that letter were such as naturally arose at the time in his breast—they were those which his duty to his royal highness the Prince Regent dictated—they were those which were dictated by his duty as a subject of the country.Lord Grenville
 gave notice of his intention to submit to their lordships a motion for going into a committee on the State of the Nation. A motion of considerable importance was fixed for Thursday next, and one of still greater importance for the 10th of April, when the Petition of the Irish Catholics was to be brought under their consideration; of which petition, if the prayer was not granted, the consequence, he apprehended, would be little short of rebellion. He was inclined to wait the event of that discussion, before he came forward with his own motion; a motion which was loudly called for in the present discouraging and distressed situation of the country, and the disjointed and distracted state of the councils of government. He would not name any particular day, but content himself with the general notice, that he intended soon to submit a motion to their lordships on the State of the Nation.Earl Grosvenor
1297ll12961295 rose and said; I certainly, my lords, feel it unnecessary to take up your time, under the circumstances in which the present subject comes before us, at any length in discussing its merits. What the message of his royal highness the Prince Regent refers to, is a proposed continuance of that support and assistance that was afforded by parliament and the Prince Regent to Portugal in the last year. On such an occasion, my lords, I think there can be but one feeling in this House, which is, that as what has been so given to our faithful allies, who have stood so honourably and steadily by us, under the most arduous and difficult circumstances, was an aid not given in vain, but, on the contrary, has answered every purpose that was expected from it, we owe it to them and to ourselves to continue that assistance. On former occasions, your lordships may recollect, that the discussions of this subject principally turned on one point, namely, the practicability of the object for which the aid was afforded. No man, however, who looks to the state of the peninsula, and to the engagements of this country, but must be aware, that nothing is of more importance, or more affecting
1297ll12961295The Earl of Liverpool
1298 said, that there were one or two points of the noble Secretary's speech with respect to which he wished to say a few words. If he did not oppose the present motion, it was not because he was satisfied with the mode in which the war had been conducted in Spain by the disjointed and distracted government which had ruled this country for these five years past. He could not, however, but join in the praise which had been bestowed upon the military characters who had been employed in that war, and by whose meritorious exertions, an heroic spirit had been diffused throughout the whole army, and even among the Portuguese troops. But in what situation was the peninsula? What had been done after all the hopes that had been held out to this country? We were in possession of Portugal, after the Convention of Cintra, when sir John Moore was ordered to advance into Spain with so very inadequate a force; and still we had hardly done any thing more than keep possession of it. France was still in possession of the capital of Spain, and of the best part of the country, in a military point of view. With an army of 100,000 men, British and Portuguese troops, as good as any in the world, led by a most skilful commander, what had been done? Would the country, under these circumstances be satisfied with the capture of a fortress, however gallant and important that exploit might be? The country, he was persuaded, would not be satisfied, looking to the magnitude of the force composed of British and Portuguese regular troops, aided by the guerillas, unless a great and powerful exertion was made, in order, if possible, at once to terminate the war, and destroy the power of Buonaparté in the peninsula. We had expended enormous sums in this contest; and though France had lost a great number of men, it was not. to be concealed that we lost a considerable number also; and however obscure the situation of these men, they had still relations and friends to feel for their sufferings, and lament their fate. It was proper, then, in his opinion, if the war was to be continued, that some great effort should be made. With regard to the amount of the sum to be given, he could not help observing, that the Portuguese sufferers might have been relieved out of these two millions, or at least, that a sum should be retained out
1298Earl Grosvenor
 was decidedly of opinion, that the country was pledged to assist the Portuguese, and that, if that assistance were refused, the national faith would be compromised. He would not, therefore, oppose the vote: at the same time, he was far from being satisfied with the mode in which ministers carried on the peninsular war.The Earl of Darnley
27262524 rose and said, it would depend very much on the answers he should receive from the noble Secretary of State for the War Department, whether he would assent to the Bill then going into the committee, or move that the order should now be discharged, that it might be renewable for a future day. There were some very important points, connected with the military exertions of the country, on which he wished to receive information; and he would slate to the House what he had himself heard, and which, if true, was highly deserving of their lordships' most serious consideration. He had learned that the practice had lately obtained footing in the army, of transferring large bodies of persons, sentenced to imprisonment on board the hulks, to be attached to regular regiments. To the proceeding which had heretofore prevailed, he meant not to object. No good reason could be assigned against the introduction of a few persons into the army, who felt sincere contrition for their improper conduct. To prevent them would be an offence against humanity, for it was only giving to those, whose errors were venial, and who saw them in their true light, an opportunity to retrieve their character, and to improve themselves in society, if the were recommended as worthy of that favour; and, without such a recommendation, no secondary consideration should induce government to commute their punishment for service in the army. But, had they been always thus introduced in small bodies, that dissatisfaction which was felt in particular regiments, which beheld them entering the service, as it were, in armies, would never have existed,
27262524Earl Grosvenor
2928 did not feel it necessary to go at length into the different topics which had been touched upon by the noble earl, several of which were not at all connected with the Bill then before the House. If, for instance, any improper latitude had been taken, either in sending persons to the army, who had been imprisoned on board the hulks, or in enlisting foreigners, they were substantive and distinct questions, which must be argued on their own grounds, and ought not to operate as an interruption to the present Bill. With respect to the transferring of convicts, he would state, that the hulks had, for a considerable time, been placed under the superintending direction of one of the most intelligent magistrates in this country. The system adopted by Mr. Graham, and his exertions, had produced the happiest effects; and, when that magistrate saw that an offender was penitent for his former crimes, he certified the fact, and the reformed prisoner was allowed, in some cases, to enter the army. Without such a recommendation, it was never permitted. The number who were thus brought back to society, might now probably be greater than formerly; but this he attributed to the excellent system at present on board the hulks, which tended to ameliorate the morals of the prisoners. But, taking the number thus incorporated with the army, in the most extended view, it would be found very trifling. Perhaps, indeed, too great a number had been sent to some particular regiments. If such were the case, it was certainly to be lamented, and ought to have been avoided. Sure he was, however, that where crimes were committed through indiscretion, or were occasioned by misfortune, and the perpetrators of them having become penitent, were desirous of retuning to society, it would be most cruel to refuse them an opportunity; and, he would also observe, that many of the persons who were thus sent to the army, from their bodily strength, and their hardihood of constitution, were eminently adapted for a military life. He was surprised to hear the assertion of the noble earl, that orders had been given not
2928The Earl of Liverpool
 was sorry that the system of the year 1806, was not only to be discouraged, but, as he gathered from the noble lord, was to be annihilated. The noble lord, in what had dropped from him on the subject, had by no means explained what he had asserted as to foreign troops. He did not conceive himself bound to adduce any instance of foreign officers commanding British troops; but this he would say, that if a single foreigner had been placed in such a situation, those who appointed him had acted illegally.Earl Grosvenor
52 said, he had heard the speech and motion of the noble lord with great regret, and he hoped and trusted their lordships would pause before they entertained the question, for, notwithstanding the caution and perfect forbearance exercised by the noble lord, this motion did impute some blame to an illustrious personage at the head of the executive government. There was something peculiar in the whole proceeding. He believed it was the general usage of that
52Viscount Grimston
 rose to order.—He had heard the commencement of the noble viscount's speech with great pain, and must interrupt him. It was highly irregular in any noble lord to make any personal allusion to the personage at the head of the executive government of the country. Such a line of argument was perfectly disorderly, and he had even felt great pain in listening to the speech of the noble lord who had spoken first in the debate, although he had not interrupted him, because that noble lord had not mingled the subject with the matter of his speech after the commencement. But here was an allegation, that direct blame was attributed to the head of the government. He had never heard a grosser infringement of order, nor any thing more likely to influence their deliberations.The Earl of Lauderdale
 spoke to order. His noble friend had not charged any one with imputing blame to the Prince Regent. He had said, that the motion involved it,—that it was the natural inference,—and he had a right to make the observation to that extent. But what was the motion itself? Was it not founded upon a private letter? Was it not calling upon their lordships to debate upon a private paper?The Earl of Liverpool
54, long as he had sat in that House, never felt more pain than in the course of this discussion; but hoped that, though it was likely he might trouble their lordships again, they would allow
54The Lord Chancellor
 rose to call the noble and learned lord to order. The observations of the noble and learned lord were foreign to the subject, and appeared more like a speech than a decision on a point of order. If the noble and learned lord meant to make a speech on the question, he appealed to their lordships whether he was entitled to proceed at present?The Marquis of Douglas
 resumed, and contended that he was referring to a material question of order, with reference to this debate. He again reprobated the production of a newspaper for the purpose of asking, whether an article in it was a letter from the Prince Regent, and said, that if any confidential servant of his Royal Highness had given an answer to such a question, he would never again have entered the same room with that person for the purposes of confidential advice.The Lord Chancellor
 spoke to order, and arraigned the conduct of the noble and learned lord, in thus referring to a circumstance which had taken place a week ago and which had no connection with the question of order. It was at the same time most unconstitutional to attempt to influence the debate by the use of the name of the Prince Regent.Lord Holland
55 said he had been misunderstood, and begged to explain his meaning. He did not deny that any peer in that House had a right to make any motion he thought proper, with respect to the conduct of any administration; but what he meant to say was this, that he never would act so unbecoming the person placed on that woolsack, as to permit such language as he sometimes heard—for he was bold to assert, in the face of all the noble lords present that he had never wit-
55The Lord Chancellor
 never heard any thing so disorderly as the language made use of by the noble lord on the woolsack. After the observations of the noble mover, he did not expect such animadversions as had a direct reference to a subject already disposed of. It was the duly of every noble lord to insist on a strict adherence to the rules of the House.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 repeated, that he should always object to any observation being made in that House having a reference to his royal highness the Prince Regent, which, in the strict course of parliamentary proceeding, ought not to be applied to the King himself, whose representative he was, and he should certainly always protest against the production of a newspaper, or part of a newspaper pasted on any other paper, into that House in the course of a debate—(Cries of Order, order! Hear, hear!)The Lord Chancellor
56 was anxious to be understood as not at all intending to bring the person of the Prince Regent into the debate. He had merely conceived the spirit of the motion to turn that way, and there was nothing which he would more deprecate. The Address proposed by the noble lord did certainly impute blame to the ministers of the Regent, for which there appeared not to be the slightest foundation. He looked to their proceedings, which must be, after all, the great standard of their qualifications for the situation which they held; and he must acknowledge, that for men so incapable as they were represented, they had done some very peculiar and very fortunate things. His Majesty's arms had been eminently successful under the administration of the present ministers, during the time that the Prince Regent had been at the head of the government. During that time the country had to boast the conquest of the islands of Mauritius and of Java, the total expulsion of Massena and the French from Portugal, the repulse of the enemy at Tarifa, and lastly, the capture of Ciudad Rodrigo. Ministers, under whom
56Viscount Grimston
57 expressed his own and the country's acknowledgments to the noble lord who had brought this important subject under the attention of the House. In expressing his decided opposition to the amendment suggested, he should not by any means feel himself shackled by the assertion, that it was disorderly to allude to publications in the news-papers of the day. Any peer of the realm had a distinct and indisputable right, even without the statement of a single ground, but the notoriety of existing facts, to submit any proposition he deemed expedient, more especially at this most critical period, surrounded as the nation was with dangers, some of which were of our own creation. He would not detain the House by impressing upon them a due estimation of the talents and means of the enemy with whom we were contending, or the near prospect of a war with the united States, into which we were about to be plunged by the destructive counsels of the present ministers of the Prince. He would not dwell upon the alarming upon the alarming insur-
57The Earl of Darnley
58 interrupted the noble lord by rising to speak to order. He wished, he said, to prevent the noble earl from making further progress on a
58The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that he wished the noble earl had condescended to state how such an allusion was disorderly, or what order of the House it violated. It was very easy for any noble lord to get up and say, "this is not in order, or that is not in order," but he thought it was necessary for them to do something more, and shew what order of the House was violated That it was disorderly to introduce the name of the sovereign in a manner to influence the decision of the House, was a thing which every body knew; but how it was disorderly to allude to any paper, merely because it was not a document already before the House, was a point which he wished the noble earl to explain. If he meant to say, that any of the standing Orders of the House was violated by so doing, he wished that he would have that Order read which he said was violated. As to the noble earl's supposition, that it was disorderly for a noble lord in his speech to allude to any matter of general notoriety, or to any paper that was not absolutely made a document by having been regularly laid upon the table of the House, he believed that such an idea was perfectly novel. If this were to be the case, a noble lord would not be allowed in future even to make a quotation from the classic authors. If he were to attempt it, he would be immediately called to order by some of his Majesty's ministers, who would exclaim," What do we know of the classics, were they ever laid upon the table of the House?" No more quotations must ever be made from Virgil, or from Horace; or the noble peer who ventured such quotation would be told, that Virgil and Horace were no regular documents,—that they were not state papers, and that it was unparliamentary to quote from them. He wished that the noble earl would point out what order of the House had been violated in the allusion of which he complained.Lord Holland
 asked if the noble earl was speaking to order?The Earl of Westmoreland
61 resumed, and maintained that if he so pleased he could, with perfect regularity, read not only a part, but the whole of the newspaper to the House. He was not surprized at the fre-
61The Earl of Darnley
62 could contemplate the Address of the noble lord in no other light, than as an attempt to exclude the present servants of the Regent from the offices they held so much to the advantage and satisfaction of the country. In the letter of the Regent, a sincere desire was expressed to procure a union of all parties; but the gracious offer was peremptorily
62Lord Mountjoy
8988 had not entirely made up his mind as to the vote he should give on the question when he came down to the House. He should certainly have fell unwilling to interfere with a branch of the prerogative, by presuming to influence the opinion of the Prince in the choice of his ministers, and he was glad that no such idea could be deduced either from the motion itself, or from the arguments of his noble friends. Yet, if nothing else but the removal of the present ministers could give the Roman Catholics of Ireland any prospect of obtaining a redress of their grievances, he thought, that such a change ought to be rapturously hailed by the whole country. He was of the same opinion as his lamented friend (Mr. Fox,) that the measure could never be carried without the concurrence of administration, and the speech of the noble lord, who had just sat down, had removed all doubts as to the intentions of the present administration, if any doubts could have still been entertained. The noble lord had stated, that the broad and unqualified principle of excluding the Roman Catholics of Ireland from the benefits of the constitution, without even giving them a glimmering ray of hope, had been adopted by ministers; and he had attempted to justify that conduct, by the most unjustifiable assertions. To these he could not tamely listen. The noble lord had stated, that the Roman Catholics of Ireland acted in contempt of the law, and in open defiance of the authority of government; this he denied, and he called on the noble lord to substantiate his assertions by proofs.—There was, indeed, a nice point of law still left undecided, which might come by way of appeal before their lordships in their judicial capacity; but this did not authorise the noble lord to decide the question at once, especially when they had heard a high authority (lord Erskine) declare, that the Catholic Convention was not contrary to
8988The Earl of Moira
73727170, in allusion to what had just fallen from his noble and learned friend, begged leave to remind him, that in the year or two subsequent to 1807, the same obstacle continued to exist; and yet he voted in those years for emancipation. He did not mean to say, that his noble and learned friend had acted wrong in so voting, if he, from conviction, had changed his mind. If he himself could be satisfied that the opinions he now held were weak and foolish opinions, he should act as his noble and learned friend did; but then he must be convinced, before he could change his opinions, that the system of conduct adopted in this country since the Revolution, and the principles on which the Revolution was founded, were erroneous. If Catholic emancipation could be proved to him to be for the general benefit of the state, then it should have his vote; but at present he saw nothing but
73727170The Lord Chancellor
858483828180797877767574 declared that if he were to answer the whole political catechism of the noble lords on the other side, or if he were to make a sort of profession of faith, on all the great subjects which had been introduced or alluded to in the present discussion, the task would be not more disproportionate to his own strength than to the patience of the House. Without however going into all those matters at length, before he sat down, he would advert, as well as he could, to most of the points on which he differed from the members of the present administration, well aware that in such a variety of topics, he had little chance of escaping considerable misrepresentation; for he knew from experience, that say what he would, he could not exempt him-self from having in the course of a few days, and frequently in the course of a few hours, sentiments imputed to him directly opposite to those which he actually delivered. Devoid of all expectation therefore of such a nature, he was simply anxious to state to their lordships what the opinions were, which he entertained on the present question. He did not deny that the motion appeared to him substantially intended to produce a change of administration. The noble lord by whom that motion was brought forward, could have had no other object when he made it. It could be understood in no other sense than an application to the Prince Regent, to remove the present ministers from their situations for the reasons there stated, that such a measure could alone conciliate the different parts of this empire, at a period which more than any other required the full exercise of alt the resources of the country. This, it had been said by the noble and learned lord who spoke last, was a strong measure. That it was a strong measure he would not attempt to deny. But he confessed he had heard with much surprize that night, that this measure was unconstitutional; and that to express the sentiments of the House, with respect to the present ministry, was to interfere with the prerogative possessed by the crown of
858483828180797877767574Earl Grey
 remarked, that the precedent of 1807, just cited, was a most unfortunate one for the noble lord, inasmuch as in that case had been done exactly what the noble lord was this night contending against. If, indeed, the noble lord meant to say, that the publication of cabinet ministers was a scandal, it would be for the friends of the noble lord to justify their conduct in this instance.Earl Grey
53 declared that he was speaking to the question of order. No point could stand upon more clear constitutional ground, than that the name of the sovereign should not be used to influence the debate in that House but if it was to
53Earl Grey
60 requested that the noble lord who spoke last, if he really meant to take the opinion of the House, would state accurately and clearly what the proposition was. If it were upon the point whether or not the name of the Regent should be introduced into debate, undoubtedly he should vote with the noble lord without a moment's hesitation; but if the question were, whether the letter which had appeared in the public prints, bearing the signature of the Regent, could with a view to support a motion, or to illustrate an argument, be quoted in debate, he should vote against the noble lord with as little hesitation. The objection made by the noble lords opposite was differently stated by each of them; and indeed it seemed to arise from an utter confusion of ideas upon one of the most plain and simple principles. The introduction of the name of the Regent, and the reading of his letter were matters totally distinct, excepting in the opinions of the opposite side of the House. The practice of every day shewed, that his noble friend (lord Darnley) was perfectly in order. How many papers were constantly alluded to and made the subject of discussion in that House, which never were, and some of which never could be made documents, in the manner which the noble earl had mentioned? At different times, when the House had been called upon to vote their thanks to lord Wellington, (and he would take this occasion of saying, that he believed no noble lord felt more strongly than he did, the great merit of that gallant and most distinguished general,) how frequently did ministers themselves detail to the House the dispatches of lord Wellington, which were certainly not documents in the sense that the noble earl now wished to understand the papers that were to be alluded to in debate; and yet, had any objection ever been made to this as disorderly and unparliamentary? How often had the Berlin and Milan decrees been alluded to in that House, and been the principal topic in long discus-
60Earl Grey
 said, that in the few words which he was anxious to address to the House, upon a question in which he was personally deeply interested—Earl Grey
6968 had really hoped that the noble mover would have withdrawn his address immediately upon hearing the speech of the noble and learned lord who had just sat down; since the House were now told, that to form a broad and united administration was quite impossible at present. Had they not heard from the noble and learned lord, that there was no way of forming an administration which could include the present opposition, except by sweeping away the present administration, and that it was as impossible for him to coalesce with the existing ministry, as for a fish to come out of the channel and live on dry land? Upon what did the noble lord ground his motion?—He stated the situation of the country, to be now hopeless—and why?
6968The Earl of Harrowby
 said, that he well remembered the proceedings of 1807, the effect of which seemed calculated to throw a scandal on the sovereign himself. The question then was, whether a certain pledge required from ministers by his Majesty, was constitutional or unconstitutional? The recurrence of that scandal he would use his utmost exertions to prevent. The course be should pursue, if the subject were pressed to a vote, would be first to have it decided whether the name of the Regent should be introduced into a discussion. Upon this there could be no dispute, and the next enquiry would be, whether it were regular to read in debate a letter from a newspaper with the signature of the Regent (which might be a forgery,) and upon which it had not been ascertained whether ministers had given any advice to the personage whose name it purported to bear.Lord Mulgrave
59 maintanied, that the ob-
59Lord Mulgrave
8786 denied the existence of that secret influence, to which such power was attributed; but without laying too much stress on the arguments adduced in debate, it was evident, as a noble friend of his had stated it, that the aim of the motion was to remove the present administration; and the proposed Address could have no other effect than that of dictating to the Prince Regent the choice of his ministers, which would not be a fair and constitutional proceeding towards his Royal Highness, who had already endeavoured to form an adminstration on a liberal and extended basis. Adverting to several of
8786Lord Mulgrave
 defied any noble lord in the House to mention a single word which fell from him, that tended in the remotest degree, directly or indirectly, to impute the slightest possible blame to, or to convey the most distant reflection on his royal highness the Prince Regent.Lord Boringdon
 repeated his statement, that he considered the act of the Prince Regent as the act of a responsible adviser.Lord Boringdon
*393837 observed, that it was not unusual, when a motion of great magnitude was brought under the consideration of the House, for the noble lord who intended to make it, to preface his speech by dwelling on the purity of the motives by which he was actuated, and by declaring, that a strong sense of public duty impelled him to offer himself to their lordships' notice. On no occasion, by no individual, he could justly say, were such expressions ever made use of with more entire sincerity, than by him who then had the honour of addressing the House. The motion which he should have to submit to their lordships, originated entirely with himself—it was not suggested by any man, or set of men, either in that House or out of it; it had arisen from feelings of a purely public nature, from an anxious wish to make an exertion which might dispel the gloomy prospect that surrounded the country, and avert the occurrence of the worst calamity that could befal the empire. He knew he had made use of a bold expression. But the calamity he referred to fully justified it—that calamity was nothing less than the separation of the two sister countries—the dismemberment of the empire. Of no less magnitude was the evil which he fearfully contemplated—and which, in his opinion, reasoning from cause to effect, the system pursued at present, must necessarily produce—and, at a period far less remote than was, in all probability, imagined by the generality of persons. It was under the strong and serious apprehension of this calamity, whether that feeling were erroneous or justly founded, that he earnestly solicited
*393837Lord Boringdon
 in explanation said, that he considered a real change of opinions as no accusation, but he had not changed his opinions—he would have approved of all that had been proposed by the late cabinet, and much more than from circumstances they could venture to propose, had he not thought that from the prejudices of the King it would dissolve the administration. (Hear, hear, hear, from the other side of the House!) Lord E. said he was glad to be so cheered, he had laid the trap for it, as it marked most strikingly how general a sensation it was, indiscriminately to impute to public men the love of office and station as the ruling principle of their conduct, which furnished a sound, but thank God, at present an unnecessary caution against being too eager in forming administrations, and placed the conduct of his two noble friends in the very light in which he wished it to be viewed.Lord Erskine
676665minus6463 said, that if the subject before the House were dispassionately considered, it was impossible that any difficulty or breach of order could attend the discussion. Although ministers, upon a former day, had refused to acknowledge the authenticity of the Letter in question, the noble earl behind him had acknowledged having received it, and had admitted the authenticity of the answer, as printed in every newspaper of the day, which he had sent to the Letter so received by him. It was, therefore, trifling with the subject to deny the fact, and absurd in the extreme to connect the comment on it with any breach of rule and order. It must be taken by the House to be the Letter of the Prince's responsible advisers, and, in fact, it bore the intrinsic mark of having proceeded from them.—It was the acknowledgment of their weakness to stand alone, and the use of the Prince's authority to strengthen them whilst they stood on the vantage ground of office. But giving the Letter the most liberal interpretation, it was an invitation to lords Grenville and Grey to unite with them in forming an administration.676665minus6463Lord Erskine
106llllllllll105 rose for the purpose of moving an Address to his Royal Highness, on the occasion. He observed, that in a case such as that before their lordships, he felt it would be unnecessary to call their attention but very generally to it. He felt confident it must be the intention of parliament to enable his Royal Highness to make a due and suitable provision for the illustrious personages adverted to in the Message. The more so
106llllllllll105The Earl of Liverpool
 certainly did not mean to oppose the grant. He only wished to know out of what fund it was to be paid.Earl Grosvenor
 answered, that it was to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that he had received no commands from his Royal Highness on the occasion, and that the Message before their lordships had merely reference to the establishment of their royal highnesses the Princesses.The Earl of Liverpool
107l rose to request, that the noble Secretary would give the House some information relative to the failure of the First Clerk of the Treasury: and it would depend upon the answer he should receive, whether he should, at some other time, make a motion on the subject. The affair was one of the very first importance. The defalcation, at the very lowest statement of it was not less than 70,000107lEarl Grosvenor
 observed, that their lordships must be sure he could not regularly afford any information on the subject. The transaction referred to was one between the Lords of the Treasury and one of the Clerks of that department; the proceedings were of some notoriety, and by the extent that was issued, a considerable sum had been obtained. It was undoubtedly competent to the noble earl to bring forward a motion on the subject if he thought proper; and it would be for the House to consider how far such motion could be entertained.The Earl of Liverpool
 addressed a few observations to the House with reference to this subject. He said he should have several petitions to present from manufacturers and other commercial persons, complaining of the injurious and destructive consequences resulting to their interests from the Orders in Council: and that, when these petitions should be before the House, he should feel it incumbent on him, to come forward with a motion for the repeal of so injurious a system.Earl Filzwilliam
108 stated, that it certainly was intended to bring forward the subject adverted to, in the present session of parliament. He had also to state, that a discussion was going on between the Court of Directors and government on the subject; and he had little doubt but soon after the recess it would be produced. With respect to what the noble earl had stated as to the time the remainder of the session
108Lord Melville
 concurred in the opinion of his noble friend, that the subject ought to have been brought under the consideration of parliament at an earlier period. The noble viscount said, that as much time as possible would be allowed for the consideration of the subject, but there was not the least resemblance between the case, as it at this time presented itself, and as it then stood. At that lime they were to believe that the East India trade could be only carried on through a very extensive capital, and preferably, by a joint stock company. Now it was carried on by a company who avowedly had no capital at all. He was afraid there was no resemblance between the cases. A negociation, it was said, was carrying on between government and the company, but he would ask, were the government and the company the only parties? Were not the distressed manufacturing and commercial interests of the country to be consulted and attended to?The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he should not be provoked by any thing which had fallen from the noble earl to enter into a premature discussion of topics not regularly before the House. When the subject should be before the public and parliament, he would answer, and he trusted successfully, the arguments of the noble earl.Lord Melville
 observed, that under the circumstances of the case, he felt that the attention of parliament should be speedily directed to another topic of the highest importance. He meant the affairs of India, and the approaching expiration of the Company's charter. In this view he had to express his surprise, that not a single document had yet been laid on the table by ministers. What he principally rose for was to ask whether they meant to bring on this great and important subject in the remaining part of the present session; and to know their opinion whether, during the remainder of the session, there would be adequate time for the due consideration of so extensive and important a question.Earl Grey
 expressed his wish to be informed, whether in the Bill which it was intended to introduce on the occasion, it was proposed to make any arrangement with respect to the provision of her royal highness the Princess of Wales?The Earl of Essex
 observed, that he would, at present, say nothing more about the Bill to which the noble earl had adverted, than that he was entirely mistaken as to its principle. When the measure was regularly before them, he should be ready to state his opinion fully. With respect to the account for which the noble earl expressed his intention of moving, he was desirous, before such a motion was submitted to the House, to know, whether any objection against producing it, existed in the quarter from whence it must be derived; and, it any, what the nature of that objection was. That he might procure satisfaction on those points, he wished a short delay to take place. Probably, he should have an opportunity tomorrow, of acquiring that information; and, if so, he would communicate the result to the noble earl.The Earl of Liverpool
150 said, that during the last session of parliament a Bill had been submitted to their lordships by a noble viscount (Sidmouth) whom he did not then see in his place, relative to the Dissenters, which, however, the House had not thought proper to adopt. Without meaning to state his own feelings and opinions, as they respected that Bill, their lordships must be aware that it had created a great sensation throughout the country, and that, in consequence, a new construction had been put on certain parts of the Toleration Act, different from any that had before prevailed. On that construction he would say nothing. It certainly would be indecorous for him or any other member of parliament, to animadvert on it, as having the sanction of judicial au-
150Lord Holland
 said, that the question of construction had not yet been done with in the courts of law, for he understood that it was intended to have the decision of the court of King's-bench reviewed by appeal, or in some other way. When the question was completely settled in the courts below, then would be the time to bring before parliament whatever might be proper on the subject.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the matter had been decided by the court of King's-bench; and what he wanted to know was, whether there was any intention on the part of government to bring in such a Bill as that which he had mentioned in the course of the present session?Lord Holland
 again asserted, that the question had not been altogether disposed of in the courts below. Some applications had been made to government for a Bill of this kind, but he thought it quite time enough to answer such questions as these, when the matter should be decided in the courts of law.The Earl of Liverpool
153152 observed, that he had a strong aversion to these temporary measures on so important a subject. He should not oppose the second reading of the Bill, in the hopes (hat their lordships would agree to an extension of its principle, and continue the prohibition of granting offices in reversion for 20 years. He was thoroughly convinced that these grants ought to be completely abolished. It was, in his opinion a measure of the greatest consequence, though he knew that it had been described by some as one of very trifling importance, and by persons, too, who might have had the best reason to be satisfied of its great importance. It was sufficient, however, for his argument, that the public thought it a measure of the last importance; and, in his opinion, unless these grants were abolished, the constitution itself would be endangered. He had, on a former occasion, brought this question before their lordships, and he was not yet discouraged. On whatever side of the House he might find himself, he should still persevere till the object was accomplished. He was satisfied, that unless the practice of granting offices in this way was abolished, the people would feel a perpetual distrust of the executive government. There was hardly any individual, he should suppose, but wished the abolition of the practice, except such as expected to profit by its continuance. Their lordships had before recognized the principle of the measure of abolition. But it had been argued, that no material saving was to be expected from the adoption of the measure. It had not been advocated merely on the ground of the immediate saving it would produce; but supposing it had, he contended, that the argument was far from being unfounded he was convinced that the measure was highly important, even with a view to immediate economy. If the abolition of the practice had taken place at the beginning of the present reign, several places which now existed would have been altogether abolished, and there would have been a saving to the state of many millions. A strong objection to these reversions also was, the clandestine manner in which they were given. The appointment of
153152Earl Grosvenor
155s154 rose to call their lordships' serious attention to the present situation of the labouring poor of Ireland. In the first place he was anxious, as far as possible, to obviate any objections which might be made against the general principle of the motion which he should submit to their lordships. He thought, from the present situation of Ireland, he was justified in calling the attention of parliament towards it: but he must at the same time observe, that if he believed any real scarcity of provisions existed in that country at the present moment, he would repress his feelings, and not bring the subject before the House; because he knew, in such a case, that the interference of their lordships could not effect any great alleviation of the evil. Believing, however, as he did, from the best information, that no real scarcity, no great deficiency in the necessaries of life, had actually taken place in that quarter of the empire—believing that no immediate danger was to be apprehended—he felt it a duty incumbent on him to state that which he knew to be a fact, namely, that certain districts were suffering all the miseries and evils attendant on a dearth of provisions, though no general scarcity existed. Many noble lords, from their residence in Ireland, might probably be enabled to give more circumstantial information on the subject than he could, whose knowledge was necessarily derived from others. But he was convinced of the accuracy of the statements which he held in his hand, which were written by persons on the spot, and from them it would appear, that the high price of provisions and the difficulty of procuring subsistence in particular districts, had been attended with very bad consequences.—The noble earl here read extracts from two letters, describing the distress which existed in the districts where they were written, but the names of which he did not state.—The facts narrated in these letters were undoubted, and a considerable alarm had been excited through different parts of the country in
155s154The Earl of Darnley
sdssdssds156 said, he was fully inclined to give the noble earl every degree of credit on the score of purity of intention, in coming forward on the present occasion; but it was with much regret he felt obliged to oppose the adoption of the noble earl's propositions. Their lordships were not now to be reminded of the great, the extreme delicacy with which the agitation of all questions connected with the subsistence of the population was attended. They must feel the great importance of having it alleged in so grave a place, that the executive government had neglected its duty on an occasion of such vital importance. But without the existence of any actual scarcity, as the noble earl had avowed his belief of, and without which he must contend that any measure would be injurious, he thought it much to be lamented, that the subject was thus brought forward. His information, which he had from the best sources, from almost daily conversing with persons just arrived, or from letters almost daily received from Ireland, led him to draw very different conclusions from those adopted by the noble earl. There was no danger to be apprehended, or even the appearance of any degree of scarcity taking place, at least during the present year in that country; that an universal rise in the prices of grain had taken place in Ireland,
sdssdssds156The Earl of Clancarty
157 took the opportunity to offer a few general remarks on the nature and tendency of the measure adverted to in terms of approbation by the noble earl, which had been proposed by a right hon. friend of his (sir J. Newport) in another place; the effect would be more to qualify and render Ireland a grand granary for supply, and almost an
157The Marquis of Lansdowne
 shortly observed, that from what had transpired of the subject, he felt it rather difficult to understand upon what principle, and, with reference to the degree of scarcity to be apprehended, upon what ground it was deemed advisable to stop the distilleries in England, that would not equally apply to Ireland.Lord Holland
151 said, he understood the noble lord's opinion to be, that it was most expedient to let the business lie over until the disputed point was decided. It was a matter of great interest to a very large body of persons, and, therefore, it was highly important that they should be apprised of the decision as soon as possible. He should be glad to know, supposing the recent construction of the act was upheld, whether, in that case, government con-
151Earl Grey
149 said, that a measure was then in progress through the other House of Parliament, which embraced a subject of the utmost importance to the country. From all that he had heard on the subject, he could view the measure in no other light than as a Bill for making Bank-notes a le-
149Earl Grey
 made a few remarks in support of what had fallen from the earl of Clancarty.Viscount Mountjoy
 presented a petition from the magistrates and council of Paisley, praying for the opening of the East India trade, which was ordered to lie on the table.The Earl of Liverpool
 gave notice of a motion for tomorrow, for the Correspondence between the Directors of the East India Company and government respecting the renewal of the Charter, and also for certain papers respecting the transfer of the troops of the East India Company to government in 1794.The Earl of Lauderdale
 after adverting to the Bill now in progress in the House of Commons, relative to Bank notes, also gave notice of his intention to move for information which he considered of the utmost importance with a view to that Bill, in order to ascertain the profits made by the Bank of England since 1797, by those measures which had brought distress on the rest of the country. His object was to have an account of the price of Bank Stock in 1797, and the average price in every half year since; the increase of dividends to the proprietors of Bank Stock during the same period; and the amount of bonusses granted to the same proprietors, during the same period. He believed it would be found, that the Bank of England had derived additional, profit of 15 or 16 millions by these measures, by the operation of which the rest of the country had been so much distressed.The Earl of Lauderdale,
 adverted to the situation of the peasantry of Ireland, who, he stated, were by the operation of the by the laws (as was also sometimes the case in this country) compelled to pay rent two, three or four times over. For the purpose of relieving them from this distressing situation he had prepared a Bill, which he proposed to present to their lordships tomorrow se'nnight; and therefore moved, that the lords be summoned for that day.—Ordered.Earl Stanhope
235 also observed, that he wished to call their lordships' attention to another very important subject. With respect to persons holding certain religious tenets, there were two opinions, the one that they should be admitted to hold civil offices, and the other that they should be disqualified from holding offices; but both parties were agreed in the justice of toleration. Upon this latter point, however, in consequence of some recent circumstances, many Protestant Dissenters, and even some members of the established Church, were liable to much oppression, to relieve them from which, he had also prepared a Bill, but thought it better not to name a day for
235Earl Stanhope
246 presented a Petition from certain merchants and manufacturers engaged in the woollen trade in the West Riding of Yorkshire, against the Orders in Council; which
246Earl Fitzwilliam
 presented a Petition from the mayor and burgesses of Nottingham, for opening the East India Trade, which was ordered to lie on the table. His lordship also stated that there was a Petition from the same place to the executive government, against the Orders in Council, which he had had the honour of presenting that morning.Lord Holland
247 pursuant to notice, moved for the correspondence between the government and the East India Directors on the subject of the renewal of the Charter. As the papers had already been printed for the use of the East India Committee, and had been before the public through another channel, he presumed there would be no objection to this motion. 2d. He moved for a copy of the military plan of marquis Cornwallis, referred to in the correspondence, for consolidating the forces of the Company with the king's troops. This might be a most important document, and it was proper it should be on the table before the subject came to be discussed. 3d. His lordship next adverted to a statement made by the deputy chairman of the court of directors, in a letter (forming part of the correspondence) to the person who was lately President of the Board of Control, (lord Melville,) that there were papers in the archives of the company, which would be of great use in enabling the government to appreciate the effects of the monopoly with respect to the navigation laws. Whether these papers would make for or against the arguments of the directors, it was fitting that they should be produced; and he, therefore, proposed to move accordingly. 4th. Though it appeared from the negociation that it was intended in a great measure to open the trade with India, there might be such rules and regulations established in India with regard to private traders, as to render the privi-
247The Earl of Lauderdale,
 stated, that as it might have been imagined that these manufacturers had been prompted by the merchants of Liverpool, and other places more immediately interested, perhaps, in putting an end to the monopoly, he had thought it his duty to make some enquiries, whether or not this was the case; and the result had been that he found this Petition to have arisen from the spontaneous feeling of the people of the town of Birmingham itself, who were convinced that if the trade to India were thrown open, they would be enabled to export much more of their manufactures than they did at present. The Petition was then read, and ordered to lie on the table.The Duke of Norfolk
bonus248 said, if any objection were made to the motion of which he had yesterday given notice, he would abstain from submitting it to the House at present. But he thought it was fitting their lordships should know what was the direct benefit the public had given to the Bank by the restriction of cash payments; what were the causes which rendered it so difficult to procure money for the public service; and by what means the measures of parliament had thrown an immense sum
bonus248The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he understood no opposition would be given to producing an account of the total nominal amount of banknotes rejected as forgeries at the bank of England, from 1797 to the present time, but that an objection would be made to specifying the number and description of such notes; he should therefore, on Tuesday next, propose his motion in an amended state.Earl Grey
 presented a Petition from the manufacturers of Birmingham against the East India monopoly. It was signed, he understood, by about 16,000 persons.The Earl of Warwick
 disclaimed any hostility to economical reform, and said, he believed he had nut stated any one principle, in the course of what had fallen from him, incompatible with as strong a desire for substantial economy as that by which his noble friend was actuated. The matter at issue was this—whether the Bill would produce any particle of economy? It held out a prospect of a future economical reform. But it was rather unfortunate, that, five years since, it held out the same prospect, but to this day no good had been effected by it. They were, however, informed, that the Bill now pending in the Other House would fully bring into effect all the benefits of actual economy. For his own part, he thought the attention of the public had much better be directed to subjects of real radical reform.—Substantial measures for curbing the influence of the crown would be of much greater service, than those which held out a hope, but gave no relief whatever to the public. He contended that the direct influence of the crown in the two Houses of Parliament was diminished. But though that was the fact, he admitted that the private influence, throughout the country, had increased to an extent which threatened to overthrow the constitution.The Earl of Lauderdale
269268 did not mean to discuss the principle of the Bill, bat would confine himself to a few observations on the amendment, and on the observations which had fallen from the noble lords opposite. With respect to the amendment, it was not, as was usually the case, an amendment to farther the object of the Bill, but went to destroy altogether the principle on which it proceeded. It was not now the question whether sinecures and reversions should be abolished—but whether, with reference to certain enquiries, now pending in the other House, they would, for a limited time, suspend the appointment of such situations till the result
269268The Earl of Liverpool
 called upon their lordships to consider what would be the effect of the amendment, with a view to the prerogatives of the crown. To grant offices in reversion was one of the undoubted prerogatives of the crown, and the object of the amendment was to suspend this prerogative for twenty-eight years, a period which, it was possible, might extend beyond the duration of the present reign. The sovereign on the throne was unhappily, at the present moment, incapable of personally exercising his prerogatives, or of giving his assent to any measure relating to them. Those prerogatives had been wisely entrusted to the person the most competent to exercise them, as a trustee; and were they now, by suspending a prerogative of the crown for twenty eight years, to place that illustrious person in a situation in which he must either do an act greatly to be deprecated, and which had not taken place for fifty years, that of refusing his assent to a Bill agreed to by both Houses of Parliament, or in giving his assent to it, become an unfaithful guardian?Earl Morton
270 spoke to order. He conceived the noble lord to be pursuing an argument inconsistent with the order of debate. Did the noble lord mean to assert, that the exercise of all the prerogatives of the crown was not vested in the Prince Regent, or that he had not a will of his own. What was this but to say,
270Lord Holland
 said he had no intention of contending, that the Prince Regent was not invested with the full power of exercising the functions of sovereignty, or that the acts to which he had given his assent were not legal acts of parliament; neither did he intend to dispute, that if this Bill were to be amended as proposed, and so amended were to receive the assent of that illustrious personage, it would not be a legal act of parliament. What he desired to urge was, that the prerogatives of the crown were vested in the sovereign, and that it was not consistent with the constitution, that the illustrious person exercising the functions of sovereignty, should be placed in the situation of refusing his assent to a Bill agreed upon by both Houses of Parliament, or if he assented to it, of having to deliver up to the sovereign, in the event of his recovery, the prerogatives of the crown, diminished and impaired by an act done in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty. To the Bill as it came up from the Commons he had no objection.Earl Morton
 contended, that the noble lord, in refusing his assent to suspend for 28 years the power of granting reversions, on the ground that a demise of the crown might possibly in the mean time take place, must be prepared in supporting the suspension for two years, to say, in conformity with his argument, that in that time a demise of the crown could not possibly happen. With respect to the Bill, he thought it was of great importance to shew to the people, that there existed a disposition in the House to make a commencement of reform which was so much wanted, and was so highly desirable to adopt; this principle was of essential importance, however trifling the immediate saving that might be effected.Lord Holland
 spoke shortly in reply, and the amendment was negatived without a division.—The other clauses were then gone through without observation or 'amendment, and the report on the Bill ordered to be received.Earl Grosvenor
262 rose to move his proposed amendment. This he had resolved to submit to their lordships, though by no means certain, that it was the exact course which he ought to pursue. He had felt considerable difficulty in deciding in his own mind, whether he ought not rather to have abandoned the Bill to its fate, or whether he ought not to have proposed the immediate abolition of the practice of granting Offices in Reversion; but considering the length of time to which he should move to extend the suspension, it might certainly be virtually considered as an abolition. His lordship then adverted to the strange conduct of ministers, with
262Earl Grosvenor
l264l263 presumed it was the intention of his noble friend, if his amendment was agreed to, to propose an amendment in the preamble, to leave out the words referring to proceedings now pending in the House of Commons, otherwise it would be in truth a most alarming symptom, that an enquiry pending in the House of Commons, with a view to the reform of abuses, waste last till the year 1840. He would, however, support the amendment, in order to get rid of the repeated discussions, upon this subject,
l264l263The Earl of Lauderdule
 agreed, that, in an abstract point of view, the measure was one of very little importance, and the effect likely to be produced by it next to nothing. He did not think, however, that the agitation of the measure, which extended to every denomination of persons throughout the country, could be considered as casting any reflection on members of parliament. The public, he conceived, from the frequent discussion of this measure, expected their lordships to turn their minds to the consideration of public abuses in general—and the system of sinecures and reversions he considered a monstrous abuse. In point of principle therefore, he thought this Bill of importance; and he would vote for it, and for any extension his noble friend thought fit to propose.The Earl of Darnley
267266l265 did not intend to have addressed their lordships on the present question, on which he had so repeatedly delivered his sentiments; but he thought it indispensable, not so much to argue that which had been so often argued before, as to disclaim any participation in the opinions stated by his noble friend (lord
267266l265Earl Grey
l observed, that to the first part of the noble earl's proposition he thought, under the present circumstances, and with reference to the Bill in its progress in that House, no rational objection could be made. It, besides, would furnish all the necessary or useful information desired, inasmuch as the specification of the value in each year would shew the progress as well as the extent of the evil. With regard to that under consideration, he certainly entertained no objections; it would also, on the noble earl's own ground, afford but little further in-formation, except a distinction was made between the notes below and above the sum of 5lThe Earl of Liverpool
 contended, that every useful purpose would be answered from the accounts already ordered. He was far from wishing to withhold any information really useful or necessary: the real question to be considered was, whether the evil complained of was progressively increasing or not, and that would fully appear by the accounts just ordered.The Earl of Liverpool
ll contended, that the specification called for by his noble friend, was necessary to elucidate that part of a very important subject. The noble Secretary seemed to have forgot, that before 1797, notes of 1llThe Earl of Lauderdale
 moved, that there be laid before the House a statement of the period at which the directors of the Bank of England gave up indemnifying the holders of forged notes.—On this pro-position some conversation took place.The Earl of Lauderdale
 expressed his surprise that ministers seemed unwilling to acquiesce in propositions of the kind, until they had consulted the Bank directors. The motion he thought necessary, and adverted to the period, as long subsequent to the restriction on the Bank. He noticed the circumstance of a forged note he had brought some years after that period, and which he had communicated to the Bank as connected with a system of forgery, said to be then going on. He was offered indemnification. But he could not avoid observing, that it was to the disgrace of the country that the example was set, not by individuals, but by the government itself, and it was to the shame of the country that the practice should be approved in the tribunals, on the ground of its being against the enemy of the country.Lord Holland
325 said, that with re-respect to any specific proceeding of the government of the country at the time adverted to by the noble baron, he certainly could not speak from any personal knowledge; but they all knew, that when the circumstance had been expressly referred to in that House—it was strongly denied and disclaimed by a noble baron (lord Grenville) then holding a high situation in the government, who denied that such a fact had ever taken place. With respect to the idea held by the noble baron, of his proneness to consult those whose interests were so immediately concerned, he had to state, he felt it incumbent on him, not only in the case of the bank of England, but of any other public body whose interests
325The Earl of Liverpool
 presented a Petition from the merchants and manufacturers of Sheffield, pointing out the great advantages which would result to them and to the country in general, from a renewal of the East India Company's Charter.—The Petition having been read,The Duke of Norfolk
 observed, that, in addition to the Petitions then lying on their lordships' table, against the continuance of the East India Company's monopoly, others were preparing in every city and town, throughout the kingdom; it was therefore right that the people should be apprised of what step government intended to take.Earl Fitzwilliam
 said, it certainly was desirable, that information, both as to the time when any measure on this subject would be brought forward, and to the object which ministers had in view, should be imparted to the House and the public. He did not mean to follow up this observation by introducing any thing like a discussion. But, he should be glad to learn, whether government intended to leave the East India Company in complete possession of the trade, to diminish it partially, or to throw it open entirely? This information was not only necessary to the manufacturer, but to the public in general.The Duke of Norfolk
 amended his motion, in the way suggested by his noble friend; and the question being put thereon, their lordships divided.Earl Grey
323llll thought, by what fell from the noble Secretary of State, he must have misapprehended the object of his motion; it went to shew what he allowed to be proper, the extent of the evil, and which, could not be satisfactorily shewn without an account of the number of instances in which the evil had taken place; it was not so much the amount as in the nature of the sum, and the multiplicity of instances in which the offence had been committed. It was said not to exceed 9,000323llllEarl Grey
 said, it had been truly observed by his noble friend, that Petitions were preparing against the East India Company's monopoly, in almost every town in the kingdom; and, with such an interest at stake, and so much attention and anxiety manifested on the part of the public, surely they had a right to expect, that the business would have been so arranged by government, that it would be brought forward at a time when all the consideration due to its great importance could be paid to it. But now he understood from the noble earl, that the discussions between ministers and the Company were not yet closed, and therefore they were not ready to give any specific answer. What, then, would be their situation, if the discussion were delayed till a very late period of the session? Could they then give the subject that deep consideration which it deserved? He did not wish to press ministers to introduce any premature or hasty measure on the subject; but if they were not now prepared to submit a proposition to the legislature, or, at a very early period indeed, from this time, he hoped, as the Charter would not expire for two years, and as the interests concerned were various and complicated, that it would not be brought forward during the present session.Earl Grey
322 rose to bring forward the motion respecting which he had recently given notice. It would go, he observed, first, for an account of the total value of the notes refused in payment at the Bank since the year 1797, on the ground of their being forged, distinguishing the value of those in each respective year since that period. To this, he believed, no objection would be made. But the information he most wished for, and without which the anterior would be nugatory, was an account of the number of the notes so presented; this he thought more especially necessary, with a view to the discussion of the measure which would ere long come before that House. Such a statement alone, he said, would enable them to form a judgment how far individuals were likely to suffer in that way under the system, which that measure went to extend, and to continue. The noble earl then moved for an account of the value of the notes as above, from the year 1797 to the latest period the same could be made up, distinguishing the nominal value of the notes so presented in
322Earl Grey
324 hoped their lordships would permit him to say a few words respecting the opinions just declared upon a very important subject. He believed it to be fact, that the greater proportion of the value of the forgeries had been in the small notes. He did not approve of the motion as then worded; it was liable to an objection urged by the noble Secretary, as to its tending to mislead. He saw no reason, however, why his noble friend should not call for a specification of all the classes of notes in which forgeries were committed. It was a topic to which he believed he had given ten times the attention given to it by all the members of parliament put together. He had suggested a mode which would go to prevent forgeries at home; but what was greatly to be feared was the effects of foreign forgery, when these notes should be put on a different footing; the forgeries would be extensive and systematical. Their lordships recollected the forgeries of the assignats. With regard to the Bill in its progress to that House, the great object with respect to it, and the subject of which it formed a part, was that the holder of the note should receive the value it was worth. Every thing that could, should be done to prevent forgery and its consequences; and also to render the person who held a note, certain that he would receive that which was its value. In that
324Earl Stanhope
 said, that, in the present state of the negociation between the government and the East India Company, it was out of his power to give any distinct answer.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
ex post facto very much doubted whether any adequate remedy could be provided: and as to the measure proposed by the noble earl, he was sure that he himself must see the difficulties which stood in the way of its adoption. The noble earl said, that the middle-men might be left to their remedy upon contract independent of the land, because the subtenants were no parties; but it must be remembered, that the sub-tenants were like purchasers, with notice of the fact. They knew the powers of those above them, and took the land subject to the burthen. To deprive the middle-men of their rights by an ex post factoThe Earl of Clancarty
399 agreed, that it was most desirable that a remedy should be provided, but doubted whether this one could be adopted. He was glad, however, to hear from the noble lord who spoke last, that the practice of sub-demising was going down. He himself happened to have come to the knowledge of an instance which so far corroborated that statement. A gentleman of great property in Ireland, had sent his steward to survey his estates there. The steward found it necessary to have a considerable guard in going round the property. But alter the survey, he resolved to put an end to the practise of demising to middle tenants, and the people were so well pleased at
399The Earl of Suffolk
400 after observing that his noble friend deserved the thanks of the country for having brought forward this question, said, that he did not think his proposal had been fairly treated. Considering the magnitude of the subject, he thought the noble lords on the other side ought to have waited till they had the printed Bill in their hands before they met the plan with so many expressions of despair, as to its propriety and capability of remedying the evil complained of. That the evil was of a most serious nature, no one could doubt; and if it was possible that any remedy could be applied without violating the fundamental laws of property, there could be as little doubt but it ought to be adopted. The noble and learned lord, (Redesdale) had admitted the existence of the evil, but had dwelt chiefly on the difficulty of applying a cure. That, however, was no reason against entertaining the subject, and the objections to it had better be reserved till another time. The noble lord over the way (lord Clancarty), had adverted to the effect which such a plan might have on existing contracts. That objection did not come well from him, who had voted in favour of a measure formerly proposed by his noble friend, (the Bank-Note Bill), which went to violate all subsisting contracts. How happened it that the noble lord did not then think of an objection, which applied much more to that measure than to this? He could not conceive how the noble lord could consistently make this objection now, when he had disregarded it in the other case. It was clear that the practice in question was one great cause of the disturbed state of Ireland, and of no small degree of oppression. If he had wanted any confirmation of this, the statement of the noble and learned lord opposite would have been sufficient to convince him; for the statement was, that the middle-men were compelled by a regard to their own interest, to have frequent recourse to the ruinous measure of distress. He agreed that they ought to proceed with caution and circumspection, but the forms of the House were a sufficient security for that. If the principle of the Bill should be found to be good, the committee would be the place
400Lord Holland,
 in explanation maintained, that he had supported the Bill alluded to by the noble lord, on the ground of preventing the tenant from being ground to the dust by being called upon to pay more than he ought to be compelled to pay, under the equity of his contract.The Earl of Clancarly
 said, that the subject unquestionably deserved the most serious attention; it involved many considerations with regard to the law of landed properly, which had not as yet been alluded to. The law was the same in England and Ireland, and it ought to be remembered, that the landholders there had it in their power so to contract as to render this Bill unnecessary.The Lord Chancellor
395l.lll394 rose to make his promised motion on this subject He protested against the idea of making a long speech; for when the object was plain and clear, the explanation might and ought to be brief. He had to call the attention of the House to a train of sufferings not exceeded, perhaps not paralleled, by those of the slave,—in all cases equally unjust, and in most equally attended with horrid and calamitous circumstances. He alluded to the stale of the Irish Peasantry under the present laws, as they related to the recovery of rent. In that country there were gradations and classes of those pernicious holders called middlemen; and the distress for ail their consecutive rents might be levied upon the peasant who tilled the ground. He
395l.lll394Earl Stanhope
397lllllll396ll admitted the existence of the evil, but whether an adequate remedy could be applied, he very much doubted. While he resided in Ireland, his mind had been very much occupied with this subject. He had often reflected upon it, and endeavoured to find out some suitable remedy; but it involved so many important considerations, and was altogether a matter of so much difficulty, that he had never been able to come to any satisfactory conclusion. From the difference, as to improvement in the state of Ireland some time ago, and now, and from other circumstances, he could very well conceive that land might, at no very distant period, have been let at 90397lllllll396llLord Redesdale
453.—My lords; although it would be obviously improper and unsuitable to the occasion, that I should now anticipate the interesting discussion for which the House had been summoned for to-morrow, it would. not be in my mind, less a failure of respect, to that most important class of his fellow-subjects, whose Petitions I am preparing to offer to your lordships' notice, if the person to whom they were committed, should satisfy himself, with throwing them on your lordship's table, unaccompanied by any observations on my part.453The Earl of Donoughmore
.—My lords; the only remaining observation, with which I shall trouble the House, is in reference to that Petition which I have had the honour of presenting, from the county and city of Kilkenny. The Petition was not originally intended for me, but had been, most properly, committed to a noble friend of mine, (the earl of Ormonde) ticularly connected with that county and city—and whose name stands conspicuously high in the peerage of his Country. It is but justice to my noble friend, to express to your lordships, the concern which my noble friend feels, that he is now prevented by indisposition, from giving that personal support, which he has never failed to afford, to the claims of his Catholic countrymen in that House, on every former occasion. To myself, entrusted as I am with the honour of presenting to your lordships the general Petition of the Catholic body, my noble friend has confided that of the county and city of Kilkenny, which he was not enabled to lay on their lordships' table himself; and by the proxy, which the noble earl had signed, in his bed, he has entrusted to me, the power of giving parliamentary effect, to his known sentiments, on the important subject, which will soon engage your lordships' attention.The Earl of Donoughmore
462461 presented Petitions from Bristol, Exeter, and Taunton, which were laid on the table. The noble marquis then observed, that it was his duty to present two other Petitions, under circumstances very different from those which had preceded them, and to which he was extremely desirous of drawing the particular attention of the House. The one was from the Protestants of Ireland; the other from Protestant noblemen and gentlemen, resident in this country, but connected by birth or properly with the
462461The Marquis of Lansdowne
 rose for the purpose of presenting a Petition from his Majesty's subjects professing the Roman Catholic religion in England. This Petition referred to one which had been presented in a former session, and which it prayed might be taken into consideration. It was signed by all the English Roman Catholic peers, as well as by the most wealthy and respectable private gentlemen of that per-suasion, and might be considered as speaking the sense of the whole Catholic body in England, than whom, he did not think a more meritorious body existed, nor one more worthy the consideration of the House; both on account of the hardships under which they suffered, and the unshaken loyalty they exhibited on all occasions.Earl Grey
 said, he had a number of Petitions to submit to the House of a different description from those which had already been presented; they were signed by many thousand persons from the northern parts of the kingdom, namely, Yorkshire, Durham, Hull, Berwick, Sheffield, &c. The subscribers were not Roman Catholics only, but comprised many of the persons attached to the various sects of Dissenters from the Protestant, religion, and others who were members of the Established Church. They prayed that those disabilities, which were visited on their religious tenets, should be abolished, as well from principles of justice towards the petitioners, as for the security of the empire at large. He felt happy in congratulating the House and the country on such liberal conduct, which, by creating unanimity, would enable the empire to bring to a glorious conclusion the dreadful struggle in which they were engaged.Earl Grey
463 said, that their lordships had now heard the Petitions of their fellow subjects, in number nearly one-fourth part of the population of this kingdom, praying to be relieved from disabilities and penalties which they felt to be highly injurious and oppressive to themselves. They had also heard the Petitions of their Protestant brethren, recommending to our favourable consideration this their just cause, their loyal and reasonable request; and praying to be permitted to renounce the privileges which they exclusively enjoyed, to break down the barrier which we professed to maintain for their security, and to share with the whole body of their country men all the rights and all the duties of freemen.—He had now, he said, to lay before their lordships a Petition of a very different complexion, a Petition from the University of Oxford, praying that this relief may not be granted to their fellow-subjects, but that we may steadily continue to refuse ourselves to attend to the Petition" presented to us in their behalf, whether from Catholic or Protestant, in England or in Ireland. In the relation in which he had the honour to stand towards that respectable and learned body (a high honour he esteemed it), he had been requested to present this Petition to the House. With that request he had not hesitated to comply. He respected that difference of opinion which he lamented, and he gave the petitioners full credit for the same desire with which he himself was animated for the maintenance of our established religion and government, though be regretted that the course which they recommended for that purpose was such as must, in his judgment, infallibly lead to the overthrow of both.—But in presenting this Petition, in which from the official stile of the corporate body from which it came, his own name was necessarily included, he owed it to their lordships and himself
463Lord Grenville
 presented a Petition from certain manufacturers, traders, and others, of the town of Birmingham, against the continuance of the Orders in Council, which was ordered to lie on the table.The Duke of Norfolk
501 presented a Petition to the same effect, from the body of merchants, manufacturers, and other loyal inhabitants of the town of Sheffield, in the county of York, and its vicinity. The Petition expressed, in strong language, the opinion of the petitioners respecting these measures, and praying their lordships to adopt such measures as in their wisdom
501Earl Fitzwilliam
 presented a second Petition, precisely to the same effect from Birmingham.Lord Calthorpe
 took occasion to observe, that the Petition just presented had received the signatures of more than 14,000 individuals, and urged the propriety of their lordships paying the most serious attention to a subject of such vital importance, and respecting which the sense of such a large portion of their fellow subjects was so decidedly expressed.The Duke of Norfolk
 then adverted to the notice he had given of a motion respecting the Orders in Council, with reference to the numerous Petitions which crowded the table of the House, setting forth the distresses of the manufacturers in consequence of the operation of these Orders, and moved to discharge the order for summoning their lordships on that motion on Tuesday next, and to renew it for Thursday the 30th instant.Earl Fitzwilliam
 observed, that the various applications to parliament upon this important subject, strongly expressed the opinions and the feelings of the great body of those most interested in and affected by the measures in question. What they alleged against those ruinous measures was strictly founded in fact, and this he would be the more enabled to prove, were the documents which he should move for on Friday ordered to be produced. The petitioners took a right view of the subject, and he agreed with them, as he was sure that no measures could more effectually aid the enemy than the means afforded by those Orders in Council. They would tend eventually to the creation of a marine for the enemy, and would, instead of diminishing, tend to increase the supplies for those armies with which he subjugated the continent. He conjured their lordships to attend to the subject, when it should, ere long, come under their consideration, as involving points not only vitally affecting the commercial and trading interests, but even the national existence of the country itself.The Earl of Lauderdale
 insisted that the petitioners in such a question were the preferable authority.The Earl of Lauderdale
 deprecated all premature discussion of a subject not before the House. He contended that the opinions of noble lords on his side of the House were intitled to as much attention and respect as those so loudly urged by the noble earl. The line of argument and tone held by noble lords opposite, tended to deceive, instead of informing the manufacturers upon the subject. They represented that the effect of the British Orders in Council was to benefit the trade and the navigation of the enemy, and to divert the tide of commerce from the ports of this island. His conception of those measures was very different. He regarded them as making part of a wise and just system of retaliation against the unprincipled and aggressive conduct of France, providing that where the neutral had not the wisdom or spirit to defend its right, the enemy should not reap the advantage of commerce, nor that the valuable products of the West Indies should be carried into his ports. The number of speeches which were made, nor the clamour which was raised against these measures, did not alter the nature of those Orders, or tend in the least to shew their want of wisdom or justice.The Duke of Montrose
505 would never hear the present ministers charged with treating their lordships' House with indignity, without rising to repel the accusation. He maintained that in the conduct of the public business, every attention had been paid to the consequence of that House. What was there in the explanation of his noble friend to call for this accusation? Had not his noble friend declared, that ample time would be given for the consideration of this important subject? And with regard to the particular period at which this business might come before them, he had to observe, that no season was improper for deliberation upon a great public measure. If, indeed, there had been any faulty delay on the part of ministers, under all the circumstances of the case, that might be a ground for a distinct charge against them: but any season of the year was a fit one for the discussion of a great political question. It would be for their lordships to decide, when the question came before them, whether they should proceed upon it or adjourn the discussion to a future period;
505The Earl of Liverpool
506 denied, in the most pointed terms, that there was any intention on the part of ministers, while he was connected with them, to offer any indignity to their lordships' House, or to treat its authority lightly; but at the same time he deeply regretted, that a question of this importance; for it was one of the most important questions, not only with a view to trade; but in a constitutional, military, and political point of view, that ever came under their lordships' review—it involved all that was dearest and most vital to the constitution of this country, to its liberties, and to its government,—it involved the consideration of all they owed to that vast empire which they had so long administered, and which, as he should be able to prove when the matter came regularly under discussion, they had, all things considered, administered so well; he deeply regretted, he repeated, that a question of this vast importance had not, before this late period of the session, been brought regularly under the deliberation of both Houses, in the shape of Resolutions, by which the opinion of parliament might be taken on the prominent features and principles of the system, before the more formal measure was submitted for deliberation. Whether the measure ought to originate in that or the other House,—
506Marquis Wellesley
—My lords, I hold in my hand 3 Petition, which as Chancellor of the University of Cambridge, I feel it incumbent on me to present to your lordships; but having uniformly absented myself when-ever the Roman Catholic question has been under discussion, and abstained from giving any opinion on that subject, I request it may be understood, that though my name appears at the head of this Petition, in consequence of the high office I have the honour of filling in the University, from which I have but a few hours since received this Petition, (an office I feel the greatest pride in possessing) yet I do not mean to pledge myself to any opinion either for or against the important question, upon which your lordships are this night going to deliberate. Nothing would have induced me to come down on the present occasion, but for the very high respect I entertain for that Very learned body whose Petition I hold in my hand; and I propose leaving the House as soon as I have heard it read.The Duke of Gloucester.
509Norfolk—My lords, as far as my information goes, the statement of my noble friend, notwithstanding the length of time in which the subject had occupied the public attention, though nearly two months notice have been given in both Houses of the intention to press this question upon the consideration of parliament this session; yet it was not till Saturday last that it was surmised in the University that such a Petition as this was in contemplation; and it was not till Sunday, a day usually devoted to other concerns, that the promoters of the Petition formally promulgated their purposes. The subject was discussed on Monday morning, before those who were necessarily absent on various duties, could attend in their places, to give their concurrence or intimate their dissent. I know that several persons, if they had had timely notice of the intention to submit this proposition to the University, would have attended to give their negative to it. (Hear, hear.) I have authority to state, that if the reverend and learned prelate, who held the highest situation in the University, next to the illustrious person whom it has the honour to have at its head, had not been accidentally absent when the Petition was proposed, he would have given it his opposition. Such are the circumstances under which this Petition has been carried; and I request your lordships to bear in mind the statement of my noble friend, that only fifty-eight persons out of the houses that voted, had supported the proposition, belonging to a body of seven or eight hundred.509NorfolkThe Marquis of Lansdowne.
 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of the county of Galway, same as the general Petition.The Earl of Moira
 presented a Petition of the same kind, from the Roman Catholics of the county of Down.The Marquis of Downshire
 presented the Petition of the Catholics of the county of Clare.Earl Conyngham
 moved the order of the day, for a Committee to take into consideration the Claims of the Catholic body, for the removal of the disabilities under which they labour. The Order having been read,The Earl of Donoughmore
514513512511510 rose and said:514513512511510The Earl of Donoughmore
 called the noble lord to order. He thought it highly disorderly to allude to the opinions of any person exercising the royal functions of the realm, or to conjecture what they were; as it was quite unparliamentary, to attempt to influence the deliberations of that House, by stating the opinions of the Prince Regent.Lord Kenyon
 If the noble lord's patience in hearing me had not been overcome, by his excessive zeal to preserve order, he might have learned, by this time, that I had no intention of saying what he has supposed me to have said. Had the noble lord heard me out, he would have found, that I was speaking merely to a point of history, to what history records, to have been, at a certain period, the political sentiments of the then Prince of Wales; to that, as such, I contend I have a right to speak; and I must beg leave of the noble lord to add, that such unseasonable interruptions are not the best means to preserve order, and that all similar attempts to obstruct my humble efforts in this good cause, shall prove as impotent as the present. My Catholic countrymen have not placed their interests in such hands, as will permit them to be thwarted and put down, by interruptions so unseasonable, improper, and disorderly.The Earl of Donoughmore.
 appealed to the House, whether, in his view of the noble earl's argument, he was not justified in calling him to order. If, under that impression, he had unseasonably interrupted the noble lord, he regretted it. He had merely acted from a sense of his parliamentary duty, without intending any thing personal to the noble earl.Lord Kenyan
530***529528"Quippe, inductabilis fatorem vis, cujuscunque fortunam mutare instituit, mentern corrumpit."527526"Restitit Eneas, claraque in luce refulsit, Os humerasque Deo similis"—525524523522521ll520l519518517516515 I admit that the interruption of the noble lord would have been perfectly just and seasonable, if I could have so entirely forgotten myself, as to have introduced the name of the Prince Regent, to influence the proceedings of this House. But what was the true statement of my argument? I had been reminding' your lordships, that every former concession to the Catholics, had been the professed measure of the minister, and in the instance of 1793, recommended to parliament in the speech from the throne. I had been explaining to your lordships, why, in deference to the scruples entertained in a certain quarter, such a recommendation could not have been reasonably
530***529528"Quippe, inductabilis fatorem vis, cujuscunque fortunam mutare instituit, mentern corrumpit."527526"Restitit Eneas, claraque in luce refulsit, Os humerasque Deo similis"—525524523522521ll520l519518517516515The Earl of Donoughmore.
606605604—My lords, I feel extreme regret in for a moment retarding the speech of the noble marquis; but I was anxious to declare, as briefly as possible, the grounds on which I shall give my vote this night. And, first of all, I must object to the doctrine just laid down by the noble and learned lord who has preceded me, that if you make the proposed concessions to the Roman Catholics, you will, as a necessary consequence, surrender to them all the power of the state. But, my lords, for the test of this doctrine, I refer you to the case of the Scotch Dissenters, and I ask you, has any such consequences followed from the arrangements in their favour, and even the establishment of their religion, as the national Church of their country? The noble and learned lord has said, that every religious sect is a political party, and that will always continue to act together for their own particular interest: this, I admit, will be the case, so long as by any peculiar exclusions
606605604The Earl of Selkirk.
628627626625624623formulœ622621620619618617616Adsummas emergere opes, rerumque potiri.Noctes atque dies niti preestante laboreCercare ingenio, contendere nobilitate,Errare, atque viam palantes quærere vitæ,Despicereundequeasalios, passimque videre615mens sibi conscia recti614613612611610609608607—My lords; before I proceed to address your lordships on the general principles of the great question before us, I cannot refrain from expressing my astonishment at some part of the speech of the noble and learned lord who spoke last but one; and particularly at that part in which he has alluded to a test which, he says, has been imposed in an Irish county, I think Galway, in which the Catholic electors have entered into Resolutions never to vote for any parliamentary candidate who should not pledge himself not only to support Catholic Emancipation, but also not to accept or solicit for himself or any other person, any office, power, or emolument, under the present, administration, or any other, until that question be conceded. It seems, indeed, rather ludicrous, that in the noble lord's zeal to prevent the consideration of this question, he should have put a topic of this sort as it were in the very front of his argument; just as if the county of Galway possessed a political influence so formidable over the rest of Ireland, that it was necessary to relieve his Majesty's ministers from its pressure, by putting an end at once to this great topic. As I entertain no such apprehensions, as those of the noble and learned lord, from the circumstance he has stated, I cannot agree with him, in the necessity of dismissing the great question of this night.628627626625624623formulœ622621620619618617616Adsummas emergere opes, rerumque potiri.Noctes atque dies niti preestante laboreCercare ingenio, contendere nobilitate,Errare, atque viam palantes quærere vitæ,Despicereundequeasalios, passimque videre615mens sibi conscia recti614613612611610609608607Marquis Wellesley.
641640639638637636635634633632631630629—My lords; my noble friend has commenced his speech, by calling on your lordships, whatever may be the ultimate decision of this question, to go into a committee upon the subject. My lords, my view of the subject is so different from that of my noble friend in every point, that I have no difficulty in saying, that upon every view which I could take of the question, the motion of the noble lord opposite would have my decided negative.641640639638637636635634633632631630629The Earl of Liverpool.
642—My lords; I rise to say a very few words upon the motion before you, in support of the vote, which I feel it my duty to give on this question. The Petition before you speaks the sentiments of the great body of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, praying for final Emancipation from the penal restrictions under which they labour, merely on account of their religious sentiments. It is signed by very great numbers of the Protestant population of the country, eminent for their characters, for their loyalty, for their attachment to their king, country and constitution—for their great landed property, and consequently for the great stake they possess in every thing which can interest them in the security of the constitution, in the maintenance of the state, and the permanent tranquillity and happiness of their country; which happiness they firmly believe to be vitally and insuperably connected with the complete Emancipation of their Roman Catholic brethren; who labour under political grievances, in the removal of which, I believe in my conscience, there would not be the least danger to this Protestant state; while, on the contrary, I do most sincerely think, that removal would be equally beneficial to every description of his Majesty's subjects—that it is essential to the maintaining the security, and the existence of the British empire; and to the union of all hearts and bands within that empire, for its defence against the clangers by which we are surrounded. In presenting to your lordships the particular Petition which I had the honour of laying on your table, I only complied with the solicitations of a very numerous body of the, Protestant and Catholic gentlemen residing in that part of Ireland where I am more immediately interested, and I sincerely wish that I may prove a successful
642The Marquis of Downshire.
661660659658657656655654—My lords; all the considerations which recommend your concurrence with the prayer of this Petition, have been urged with such force and eloquence by the noble lord near me (marquis Wellesley) and remain so completely unanswered, that I should feel myself without excuse if I now trespassed on your time with any detailed exposition of the subject. I could only repeat in less impressive language the same arguments. Still, some objections have been advanced on the other side which I should not be satisfied with leaving unnoticed. When the noble secretary (the earl of Liverpool) rose, my curiosity was strongly excited as
661660659658657656655654The Earl of Moira.
695694693692691690689—My lords; in consequence of what has fallen from the noble baron, who has just sat down, I feel myself called upon, if on no other account but that of the very numerous and respectable body, with whom I am most intimately connected, (university of Oxford) not to suffer this question to pass with my silent vote.695694693692691690689The Lord Chancellor.
702701700—My lords; I do not rise at this late hour of the night, to enter into any argument, but to explain one point; or, indeed, I may say, to apologize to the noble and learned lord for interrupting him when addressing your lordships. The nature and motive of that interruption he has indeed, mistaken; but apology is due to him for any thing bordering on inattention; and I can assure him that ray remark, which was made too loudly, was owing first to the circumstance to which he has himself adverted, the part of the House from which he speaks: and 2dly, to the great good humour with which he generally receives every thing of the sort; but when I so irregularly exclaimed to the noble lord to read the Bill of Rights, I did not mean to imply, (God forbid I should) that he had not read, nor did not understand, the Bill of which he was speaking; I did not mean to recommend him to read an act of parliament, with which I was, and am well convinced, that he is perfectly familiar; but I called upon him, irregularly, I admit, but not disrespectfully, to have the Bill of Rights read at the table, in order to enable the House to judge of the practice of that observation, on which he has this night laid such a stress. The noble and learned lord maintains, that the exclusion of Roman Catholics from parliament and offices, is part of the fundamental law of our constitution, as declared by the Bill of Rights. It is that point I wished to be explained; and it is that point which, I think, the reading of the Bill of Rights would completely clear up; and set not only in a different, but in an opposite light, to that in which the noble and learned lord has presented it to your lordships. It would detain the House to have the Bill read at length; but if any there be on whom this part of the noble and learned lord's statement has made an impression unfavourable to the repeal of the exclusive laws, I trust they will refer to the Bill itself; and in it I contend they will find nothing which precludes them from repealing the laws of exclusion; nothing which enacts or implies, that those laws are fundamental in our constitution, or absolutely and permanently essential to its security.702701700Lord Holland.
 had expressed his wish to know when the subject would be brought before their lordships; whether it was probable that it would be submitted to them at a period when there was a fair chance of its being considered and discussed in a manner suited to its importance: but now the noble earl over the way appeared to be uncertain whether it would come before them at all that session; and stated, that, at all events, it was intended that the measure should not originate there. He saw no reason against it; but at any rate it ought to be laid before them at a period when it might receive the fullest deliberation. Could this be expected? Considering the time that a Bill of this nature must take in passing through the other House, it was morally impossible that it should that session come before their lordships at a time when there was usually the fullest attendance. He! hoped their lordships would interfere, and not suffer their dignity and consequence in the state to be thus trifled with.Earl Grey
 adverting to the numerous Petitions that lay on their lordships' table, against the East India monopoly, wished to know from the noble President of the Board of Controul, when the subject of the renewal of the charter was to be brought forward. The session was far advanced; the measure was one of the greatest importance; and it was necessary that time should be given for that ample deliberation, which the magnitude of the question called for.Earl Grey,
653652651"Caput insanabile tribus Anticyris."650"Should have it rather than a Christian.""Would any of the tribe of Barrabbas649648647l"So John and I are more than quit."To publish it to all the nation,"But John unluckily thinks fitTo John I owe some obligation,646645644643"Cogere concilium cum muros obsidet hosts.""Non tempore tali—My lords; the question before the House has been so frequently, fully and ably discussed, and never perhaps more ably than on this night; that it would be difficult to adduce new arguments for or against it. But with each discussion, difficulties have been removed, objections have been canvassed and refuted, and some of the former opponents of Catholic Emancipation have at length conceded to the expediency of relieving the petitioners. In conceding thus much however, a new objection is started; it is not the time, say they, or it is an improper time, or there is time enough yet. It" some degree I concur with those who say, it is not the time exactly; that time is past; better had it been for the country, that the Catholics possessed at this moment their proportion of our privileges, that their nobles held their due weight in our councils, than that we should be assembled to discuss their claims. It bad indeed been better
653652651"Caput insanabile tribus Anticyris."650"Should have it rather than a Christian.""Would any of the tribe of Barrabbas649648647l"So John and I are more than quit."To publish it to all the nation,"But John unluckily thinks fitTo John I owe some obligation,646645644643"Cogere concilium cum muros obsidet hosts.""Non tempore taliLord Byron.
502 strongly contended that a very mistaken and erroneous sense of the nature and effect of the Orders in Council was entertained by those whose opinions were expressed in the language they had just heard read. He would put it to their lordships what would be the inevitable effect of a repeal of the Orders in Council?
502Earl Bathurst
603602601600—In the view which the noble mover has taken on this subject, and that entertained by myself, the principal difference is, that while the noble earl thinks that every restraint should be removed which affects the Roman Catholics, I, on the contrary, am of opinion that those restraints and securities formed by the law should remain in force; nor am I disposed to regret the result of experience on the benefit derived from them. The great objection, which is the foundation of every other, to the measure of Catholic Emancipation, is the usurpation of temporal power by spiritual persons. It is this which first shook the foundation of Popish supremacy, and finally led to the Reformation, aided by co-operating causes. It is this subordination of civil to spiritual power, which I must always consider as the great and fundamental objection, considered with relation to the question. It is to be considered, that the Protestant religion is the establishment of the country, and that this should be supported and maintained, for the peace and quiet of the whole community. I can assure the noble earl, that I am not actuated by any species of that enmity to which he has alluded, or by any dislike to the Roman Catholics, as such, or bigoted attachment to the Protestants. I only consider the safety of the constitution of the country, of which the Protestant Church forms a part. When it was the policy of James 2, to favour the ascendancy of the Roman Catholic Church, he wished to give to persons professing that religion places of trust under the crown. For what purpose, but to destroy the superiority of the Protestants? Had Roman Catholics been placed in such situations, would it not have been a breach of those laws which were deemed essential to the security of the Protestant establishment? Then, until I am assured that securities equally firm are provided, I can never accede to a total removal of the disqualifications of which the Roman Catholics complain. After the abdication of king James, the Prince of Orange was called to the throne of these realms by the Convention Act; and the Declaration of Rights enumerates a variety of acts, contrary to the laws of the realm, for a sovereign to perform. After the accession of king William and queen Mary, this Declaration of Rights was converted into a statute. This act I will
603602601600Lord Redesdale.
508 said; My lords, from the relation I have the honour to bear to the University of Cambridge, it is impossible that I should not feel some anxiety to trouble your lordships with a few words in consequence of the Petition which has been just read. None can be more ready than I am to admit the weight that is due to every thing that proceeds from that learned body; at the same time, my lords, with all the respect that I bear to the University collectively, and with all the respect and regard that I feel for many of the individuals, who probably are parties to this Petition, I trust I may be permitted to remark, that the weight which is given to any act, from whatever quarter it proceeds, must necessarily bear some proportion to the degree of deliberation and discussion which it has undergone. Now, my lords, I am sorry to be under the necessity of observing that this Petition, though relating to a question of great importance to the state, is not the result of that consideration to which the subject is certainly intitled. On the contrary, it is a fact which cannot be denied, that the intention of proposing any Petition at all, was not known in the University on the evening before the day (viz. yesterday) on which it was proposed in the senate; and if a right reverend prelate were now in his place, he would confirm what I now state to your lordships, that though presiding over the largest college in the University, he was not apprised till the evening of the day before yesterday, that any such measure was in contemplation. And, yet, my lords, with all this secrecy, the majority in favour of the Petition was very, inconsiderable. In the Black-hood House, which consists of masters of arts, above five years standing, the members were, for the Petition 24, against it 19; and in the White-hood House, for a Petition 34, against it 20. It must here be observed, that the circumstances of the doctors having the privilege of voting in the White-hood House, if they think proper to do so, accounts for the majority being greater than in the Black-hood House. Under these circumstances, my lords, I certainly cannot consider this Petition as conveying the sense of the University at large; but at all events, it will receive its due weight from your lord-ships; and I am bound to say, that many of the individuals from whom it proceeds,
508The Earl of Hardwicke
503 could not state exactly when the subject would be brought before parliament; but whether it could be brought forward this session or not, their lordships might be assured of this, that full time would be given for the
503The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 had given no decided opinion that the subject ought not to originate in their lordships' House. He had only stated that under the circumstances, it appeared most advisable to the government that the matter should originate in the other House.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 presented a Petition from a number of Christians to the same effect as several other Petitions already received, all in support of the concessions required by the Catholics. Ordered to lie on the table.Lord Erskine
504 declared, that from what he had seen of the conduct of the present ministers, it was his firm belief that they acted upon a fixed intention to annihilate the consequence of that House. (Some cries of No, no.) He repeated that such was his firm belief—a belief founded upon their uniform plan of delaying to bring the most important political measures before their lordships, till it was notoriously impossible to give them their due consideration in that House. The declaration of his noble friend at the head of the East India Department, was in exact conformity to this system. After the public attention had been so long fixed upon this subject, when their table was loaded with Petitions respecting it, his noble friend had declared, that the matter was not to be
504Lord Grenville
688687686685684683682681680Quam nec longa dies, pietas nee mitigat ulla!"679678677676675674673672671670669668667666665664663662 rose and said:—My lords; I am not surprized at the silence of our opponents. It requires no excuse. Its cause is sufficiently obvious. The eloquence with which this motion has been introduced and supported must have produced upon them, as upon all its hearers, a powerful and indelible impression. We may easily conceive how painful it must now be to any man to avow himself the adversary of these Petitions.688687686685684683682681680Quam nec longa dies, pietas nee mitigat ulla!"679678677676675674673672671670669668667666665664663662Lord Grenville
698697696—My lords; I have no intention of making, under the plea of explanation, a reply to the learned lord's speech.' The temptation no doubt is great, but I will not yield to it. I rise solely to vindicate my own character against his unjust aspersions; and a few minutes will suffice for this purpose. The learned lord accuses me of inconsistency on this subject. I have formerly, he says, considered some conditions as indispensable from which 'I now advise you to depart. Were the fact true, I should admit it without reluctance. I have never desired the praise of that consistency which adheres to error in spite of conviction. Nor can I exclude from my views of the present question all reference to the increasing pressure of the times, and to the fast accumulating distresses and necessities of the empire. But the charge is wholly groundless. Neither my opinions on this great question, nor therefore my language or my conduct, have ever varied for a moment. The learned lord refers you to a printed letter of mine to lord Fingall, and following the
698697696Lord Grenville.
 said, that the document had not been officially communicated, but that it had been published in the official paper of the French government—the paper which was declared to be official with reference to all the acts of the government. That being the case, he felt a difficulty in point of form in laying such a document before the House.The Earl of Liverpool
 conceiving only certain parts of the Berlin and Milan Decrees were contrary to the law of nations, wished to know whether it was the meaning of the Declaration that on those parts of the Decrees being repealed which were contrary to the law of nations, the Orders in Council were to cease.Lord Holland
 said, that with reference to the repeal of the Berlin and Milan Decrees, it was intended that the Court of Admiralty should judge of the fact—whether in the event of any act of the French government announcing the repeal of those Decrees, it was such an act as under the Declaration authorized the cessation of the operation of the Orders in Council. With respect to the noble lord's question, the repeal contemplated by the Declaration, was a total repeal of the Berlin and Milan Decrees, in which case alone the Orders in Council were to cease to operate.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought that the Milan Decree repealed the Berlin Decree, it being stated in the former, that its operation was to cease on the repeal of the Orders in Council; whilst this Declaration stated, that the latter were to cease upon the repeal of the former, there was no prospect whatever held out of relieving the distresses of the manufacturers of this country, or lessening the evils inflicted upon neutral powers.The Earl of Lauderdale
 subsequently suggested, in order to get rid of the difficulty in point of form, that the French paper containing the document referred to in the Declaration, might be allowed to find its way upon the table, for the information of the House, without any motion.The Earl of Lauderdale
sssss adverted to what he had stated five weeks since, respecting the expediency of stopping the distilleries in Ireland, in consequence of the high price of grain, and lamented that recourse had not then been had to this measure, which ministers now found themselves compelled to adopt. The consumption of the distilleries in Ireland was 50,000 barrels of oats per week, which during the five weeks since he first noticed the subject, amounted to 250,000 barrels, and this taken from the stock of an article, which in a failure of the crop of potatoes, was necessary to the subsistence of the people, the chief article of their food, for want of potatoes, being oatmeal. The price of oats in Ireland, which five weeks ago was 27sssssThe Earl of Darnley
858d admitted, that the high price was not to be attributed solely to the distilleries.858dThe Earl of Darnley
859 thought the Bill tended to unsettle the whole law of landlord and tenant in England, Scotland, and
859The Lord Chancellor
 suggested the necessity of appointing a distant day for the committee, in order that accurate information might in the mean time be obtained respecting the extensive and important interests which would be affected by such a measure, and proposed this day two months.The Earl of Liverpool
 asked whether the Declaration was issued in consequence of the official communication of the document to which it referred from the French government, and whether there would be any objection to lay that document before the House?Earl Grey
 suggested one month, which was agreed to, and the Bill was read a second time, and committed for this day month.Earl Stanhope
 moved the second reading of his Bill for the relief of the Peasantry and Tenantry in Great Britain and Ireland, observing, that the law of distress being the same in Great Britain as in Ireland, Great Britain was therefore included in the Bill. His lordship proceeded to comment upon the speech of a noble and learned lord (Redesdale) on the first reading of the Bill, observing, that a letter he had quoted of a great lawyer, stating the evils arising from the operation of the law of distress in Ireland, was the letter of that noble and learned lord himself, who in contradicting by his arguments his own letter, had shewn the utmost impartiality, it being the maximum of impartiality to write one way and speak another, and had thus fallen into a trap which the noble and learned lord had himself baited. His lordship then recapitulated his former statements, pulling them in different points of view for the purpose of shewing the gross injustice of permitting the occupying tenant to be distrained upon not only by his immediate lessor, but also by all the intermediate lessees, or middle-men, by which the occupying tenant was subjected to the greatest oppression.Earl Stanhope
 denied that the high price of grain in Ireland was to be attributed solely to the distilleries, one of the causes being the export of grain to this country.Earl Bathurst
 observed, that in all the communications from the French government, whether to Mr. Russel, the American minister, or in any other way, the Berlin and Milan Decrees were uniformly spoken of together, which could not have been the case if the Milan Decree had re-pealed the Berlin Decree,Earl Bathurst
 denied that his arguments were at all at variance with his letter alluded to by the noble earl, but deprecated the making public confidential letters (the letter being confidential to whom it was written), as it tended to destroy all confidence between man and man. His lordship then observed upon the impossibility, as it appeared to him, of making any legislative provision upon this subject, without committing the greatest injustice, by operating retrospectively in the most injurious manner upon rights of property, which had in various ways, been made the subject of contract and settlement. He would not, however, oppose the second reading, being willing to try if any practicable mode of lessening an evil which undoubtedly existed in Ireland, though not in this country, could be devised.Lord Redesdale
1080 said he must be allowed to observe, that there was no disposition whatever, nor any reason to suppose there was, on the part of the King's servants, to avoid any course of proceeding that would give to parliament and to the country the fullest opportunities of deliberating on the subject in question. Even if the course adverted to was adopted, it would still be at the option of any noble lord to bring forward any of the great branches of the subject under separate discussion. With respect to what was said of the occasion in 1793, if he were not mistaken, there were also at that time the strongest representations from all the manufacturing towns, soliciting that the trade might then be thrown open to the country at large; and an arrangement had been proposed, by which it was thought that considerable benefits in the way of trade might be derived by individuals
1080The Earl of Liverpool
 contended, that a great and striking difference existed in the state of the question at present, and at the period of 1793. They had not then, as now, a prospect of India being a burthen upon the finances of the country. A noble marquis, then in his eye, had most ably demonstrated the great benefits which would result from a free trade to India; the military and political parts of the question also constituted an essential difference. Neither was there any comparison between the state of this country at the period alluded to and at the present time.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said a rumour had been in circulation for the last twenty-four hours, of a Message having been sent by the President of the United States to Congress, charging that an agent from this country had been employed, by the governor of the adjacent British territories, to foment discontents in the United States, with the view of separating the Union; and the Message was stated to be accompanied by documents comprising the correspondence, which proved, as asserted, the existence of the agency. He believed there was no foundation for this statement, and he trusted that such was the case; but it would be satisfactory to the House and the public, if the noble lord opposite would give a contradiction to it.Lord Holland
 said he had no hesitation in answering, that no person had been employed by this government to foment discontents in the United States, nor had there existed any intention on the part of government to foment discontents there, or to make any attempt to separate the Union. As to the person alluded to as an agent, he was persuaded that he could only have been employed for the purpose of obtaining information with a view to the defence of Canada., in the event of hostilities.The Earl of Liverpool
 asked, if there was any objection, on the part of the noble earl, explicitly to state, for the satisfaction of the public, whether captain Henry (for there could be no secret about the name) was or was not employed by this government? Or whether they knew of his being employed by Sir J. Craig?Lord Holland
 said he had no hesitation in stating, that captain Henry was not employed by government at all, nor did they know of his being employed; and he was persuaded, from what he knew of sir James Craig, that sir James could only have employed him for the purpose of obtaining information with a view to the defence of Canada, under the impression that hostilities might perhaps soon commence.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that there was probably some correspondence between sir J. Craig and the government, and suggested the propriety of laying that correspondence before the House.Lord Holland
 who observed, that another place could only mean the House of Commons, and that it was irregular to comment in that way upon their proceedings, or to use what passed there as a means of influencing opinions in that House.Lord Holland,
1084lllllllll1083 observed, that the noble earl had entered into a variety of minute statements, but had carefully kept out of sight the real object of the Bill, which was to-make Bank notes a legal tender. By the measure of last session, Bank notes were made a legal tender out of court, and now
1084lllllllll1083Lord King
 contended that the existing circumstances of the country were to be ascribed to natural and simple causes, namely, the great foreign expenditure, and the considerable increase in the importation of grain. The argument of the noble baron who preceded him, was directed rather against the original measure of the suspension of cash payments, than against the present Bill, the object of which was to prevent the occurrence of injustice and oppression. Adverting to the supposition that there were two prices in the market, a cash price and a paper price, he denied the fact. On this point he was ready to meet the noble lords, guarding himself at the same time from the inference of maintaining that there might not have been a solitary instance or two of the existence of two prices. All he contended for was, that it was not a general practice.The Earl of Liverpool
 gave notice, that before the House went into the committee on Friday, he would move an enquiry into the nature of the connection of the bank of England with government.The Earl of Lauderdale
1086 adverting to the conversation which had taken place early in the evening, observed, that he had since read the documents to which he had then alluded. If they were accurate as published, he must consider them as affording a most proper ground for parliamentary enquiry. If it should appear that Mr. Henry had been authorised to stir up the inhabitants of the Eastern States to rebellion and separation from the Western, such an act, on the part of one friendly power to another, could not be too severely censured or
1086Lord Holland,
 replied, that he did not think it necessary to say any more at present, than that when the affair came to be enquired into, it would be found not to bear the construction set upon it by the noble lord.The Earl of Liverpool
 observing that the noble earl had refrained from answering his question, gave notice, that on Friday he would move for the production of the documents.Lord Holland,
 supported the measure, not seeing that any thing better could have been done.Earl Darnley
1085l argued against the Bill. After calculating the various profits of the Bank, he maintained that the principal effect of the measure would be, to put into the pockets of 600 bankstock holders the enormous sum of 17,525,0001085lThe Earl of Lauderdale
 spoke in support of the Bill.The Earl of Westmorland
 observed, that ministers continued to say, that there was every disposition on their part that this most important subject should have the fullest discussion, but still they delayed bringing forward any measure relating to it. Not even a notice had yet been given as to when it was to be proposed, whilst the session was advancing to so late a period, that there would be a moral impossibility of giving the subject that deliberate discussion which its extreme importance so urgently demanded.Earl Grey
 disclaimed all connection with the manufacture of the swaddling cloaths in which the child, of which he was the parent, was now drest out. The child itself, however, he had no hesitation in acknowledging and supporting. Noble lords seemed not to know in what a pound sterling consisted. He would tell them first what it was not, and then he would tell them what it was. It was not a pound troy, or a pound averdupoise—they were measures of weight:—a pound sterling, was not a measure of weight but of value. In not attending properly to this distinction lay the greater part of the fallacy of the arguments on the other side. It was impossible for him to say that one of his hands was raised and another depressed, without comparing them to something that was fixed in its position. Noble lords who opposed this Bill had formerly contended that gold was of a fixed value; yet he now found an admission in a pamphlet by a noble earl (Lauderdale), that when gold began to be exported from a country, then that which remained rose in value. He declared it to be his firm conviction, that if he had not stopped his noble friend (lord King) by introducing the Bill of last year, we should soon have had Bank notes in this country where French Assignats were in France.Earl Stanhope
llll1082 observed, that there were other places where opinions were expressed besides the House of Commons. After explaining what he intended by the argument he was about to use when interrupt-
llll1082Earl Bathurst
 was proceeding to observe upon the tacit acquiescence of some, and the feeble opposition of others, in another place, to this Bill, who last session vehemently opposed the measure, when he was called to order byEarl Bathurst
 averred that his Majesty's government entertained the strongest desire and the most determined resolution, to propose nothing to parliament which they were satisfied in their own minds was, upon this great occasion, not conducive to the general interests of the country. His noble friend and the House were aware, it was a subject which involved such a collision of interests, that there could be no intention on the part of his Majesty's government to precipitate the discussion of the measure. With respect to the particular course of proceeding to be adopted, a variety of opinions might arise; but, with respect to those avowed by his noble friend on that head, he would beg to look to what was his own conduct on a similar occasion, while forming a part of the then government. He surely would not pretend to state that the subject was not equally important in the year 1793 as it now was. At that time, his noble friend discharged his duly in the manner he thought most advantageous for the purpose, when he pursued a course directly the reverse of what he now recommended. He was sure, if consistency were to be found in any individual, his noble friend could not object to the adoption of a similar course on the present occasion.The Earl of Buckinghamshire
 must protest against any comparison of the importance of the question in 1793, and at the present period. At that time there did not exist that great, immense, and extensive difference of opinion which now evidently existed. The question then was, whether it were proper to continue, for a limited time, the system then in existence. At present the strongest difference was manifested, as appeared by the numerous Petitions and applications to the legislature from every part of the country. Those who, on the former occasion, were of opinion that no change ought to be made, might have considered the period of the session at which they came forward, abundantly sufficient for agitating the operation; in that point of view might, on the same principle, now consider a similar period for discussion totally insufficient. Whatever the difference of opinion might be upon almost all other points, they were all decided that a great and effectual change must take place in the whole system; a consideration which would bear no comparison with the mere question of continuance. But there was another consideration which it was impossible any noble lord could overlook, namely, that which was presented by a view of the distresses of the country, by the cries and lamentations of their fellow subjects for opening new markets, when the trade and commerce of the country were in the lowest and most distressed situation ever known—a situation to which the weak and wretched policy of ministers had reduced them.Lord Grenville
1078 said, that in rising to move that this Petition do lie on the table, he could not avoid recalling their lordships' attention to what took place on a former evening respecting the intended discussion on the great national question to which the Petition referred. They were told it was intended to bring forward these discussions at an early ensuing period this session. They were all agreed that the question was not only of the greatest importance to the commercial interests of the country, but involved, at the same time, some of the highest interests on which the British legislature could be called upon to deliberate. This subject, great and extensive as it was, he held it would be utterly impossible, were they to confine themselves even to the commercial part of the question, to discuss in a fit and proper manner, such as its importance required, in what remained of the session. The subject was recommended to the attention of parliament from the throne at the beginning of the session. Four months had now elapsed without a moment of time being bestowed upon it: but now, when they were told the subject was very nearly ripe for consideration, their lordships were expected to remain in the same state of utter inactivity, with respect to it, waiting until they should receive lessons from the other House of Parliament on the subject, and until it was brought before them
1078Lord Grenville
 opposed the Bill. He compared the present proceedings of government to those of the French with respect to the assignats.—The noble lord dwelt at length on the evils which the people experienced by the depreciation of paper, which depreciation he attributed to an over issue on the part of the Bank.Lord Grenville
 observed upon the necessity of having information on the subject before they came to the discussion, which was now for the first time extended to Ireland, where the sale of guineas, and the discount of Bank-notes, had been legalized.Lord King
 had no objection to the production of information respecting the bank of Ireland, but could not consent to delay the Bill for the purpose of waiting for the information. The only reason for not extending the Bill to Ireland last session, was the absence "of the Irish members.The Earl of Liverpool
1131 contended on the contrary, that the difference in the si-
1131The Earl off Lauderdale
 concluded the conversation, by making a motion, for an account of notes issued by the bank of Ireland, which was agreed to.Lord Holland
l1132 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the state of the Currency of the Country, &c; observing, that however important were the subjects of the Orders in Council and the East India Trade, yet in his mind they sunk to almost nothing in comparison with the consideration of the currency of the country, and the power given to the bank of England. It had heretofore been the prerogative of the crown to regulate the currency of the country, but now that prerogative was delegated to twenty-Four merchants, the directors of a banking company, who had the power of increasing or diminishing it at their pleasure a power, too, which was vested in men representing the body of proprietors of the bank of England, whose interests were at direct variance with those of the public. It was the interest of the Bank proprietors that the issue of Bank notes should be increased, because thereby their profits were increased, whilst it was the directly contrary interest of the public, that there should not be an excessive issue of Bank notes. It was true, that there appeared a trifling decrease of the amount of Bank notes, but if the amount of Silver Tokens issued by the Bank were taken into the account, it would appear that there was no decrease. It was not merely, however, the increase of bank of England notes that they had to consider, but the immense increase of notes throughout the country. The number of issuers of notes had, since 1797, been increased from 1250 to 1800, and the inconvenience resulting there from, was great beyond what their lordships bad probably any idea of. Many of these country banks were situated in obscure villages, their notes being only payable there. When the notes of one of these banks invaded the circulating district of another bank, and were taken there, they were sent back in amount, and a draft on London given for the differences. This was the regular course; but the fact was, that many banking houses in the country
l1132The Earl of Lauderdale
 adverted to the notice he had given for the production of the Correspondence relative to the Mission of captain Henry, and observed, that be had conceived that ministers, if they were not themselves solicitous to lay the correspondence upon the table, would at least not oppose a motion for the production of it. Since he came into the House, however, he had heard with considerable surprise that it was their intention to oppose the motion; he was the more surprised at this, it being a subject in which the public look a deep interest, and respecting which it appeared essential to ministers themselves to produce the correspondence. His motion would be for copies of the correspondence between sir James Craig and the Secretary of State, relative to the mission of captain Henry, the correspondence with sir George Prevost relative to the same subject, and the letters from the Secretary of State to sir George Prevost, relative to the compensation claimed by captain Henry. As this motion was, he now understood, to be opposed, he should not bring it forward to night, other business standing for discussion, but should fix it for Tuesday. On the latter day, a motion of a noble friend of his also stood for a committee of the whole House, to enquire respecting the distresses of the manufacturers, in consequence of the operation of the Orders in Council; but as the committee had been granted in another place, he could not conceive that it would be opposed here, in which case his noble friend's motion would not be debated, and his own would stand.Lord Holland
1130 said, that whenever the noble baron should bring forward
1130The Earl of Liverpool
de die in diem observed, that as it was intended to grant the committee, there ought to be some understanding as to what time it was likely to occupy the House; or whether they were to sit de die in diemThe Earl of Lauderdale
 assented to the propriety of having some understanding as to the days, or hours in each day, that should be allotted to the enquiry. He had no objection to go into the committee on Tuesday, but as that might not be convenient he would mention Thursday.The Earl of Liverpool
 rose to ask, whether it was the intention of the noble lord at the head of the Board of Trade, to lay any papers upon the table respecting the issue of notes by the bank of Ireland, those relative to the bank of England being already before the House, and the Gold Coin Bill which stood for a committee this night being now extended to Ireland?Lord Holland
1135bonus was at a loss to know what there was in the charter of the bank of England to prevent them from paying their lawful debts. He agreed that the proposed Bill did not go the length of making Bank notes a legal tender; but it had this effect—when a creditor sued a, debtor, he might make his tender in Bank notes, which would be allowed by the court, and the creditor would be liable to the cost" of court. It ought to have been shewn by the noble lords, that the interest of the Bank and that of the public was the same; instead of which, they had proved them to be diametrically opposite. He would agree, that the Bank had a right to discount Exchequer bills; but the question was, whether the Bank had a right to go to such an extent as to cause a depreciation of bullion by issuing notes to their own advantage, without any new pledge to the public? They had been told of the watch government had over it: but instead of a guard, he would only call it a connivance, to answer their own purpose. Looking to Ireland, he thought it was in great danger, for the Bill would do away with all agreements which were made before this measure was contemplated. The noble lord on the woolsack was not ignorant, that, in Cumberland, the rent was paid in tithes, and wheat was, at this time, ten times the price it had been when the leases were granted. In Ireland, the landlord agreed for gold, and had a right to have his contract fulfilled; and were they to be frustrated by the Bank being subservient to the administration? It had been stated by the noble viscount, that in the year 1799, the Bank was richer than at any other period, on account of the proprietors having received a greater 1135bonusThe Earl of Rosslyn
 expressed his concurrence in the propriety of the proposed enquiry. He supported the argument of his noble friend, that the Bank proprietors had an interest distinct from that of the public; and argued, that, by the proposed Bill, the prerogative of the crown, to stamp the currency of the realm, and limit or extend its quantity, was placed in the hands of the Bank directors. When be saw a body of twenty-four men invested with such authority; when he fell that they must be divided between their duty to the public and to the individuals whom they represented, he thought the motion ought to be agreed to. He was not one of those who thought that the former sound system of cash circulation could be suddenly reverted to without risking a dangerous convulsion; but he did think that every means ought to be adopted that they might gradually return to that sound and healthful system, and in this view he supported the motion of his noble friend, in order that they might have before them the requisite information to guide their conduct, particularly under the new relations between government and the Bank, by which the latter had the power of regulating the circulation at their pleasure—the controul of government being necessarily weakened by the large unfunded debt which they were only enabled to keep outstanding by the aid of the Bank circulation.The Marquis of Lansdowne
1134bonusbonus said, that whatever relation subsisted between the bank of England and the government at present, had existed since the year 1797; it was, therefore, rather singular, to introduce it now as a matter of novelty. The immense profits made by the proprietors of Bank stock had been frequently descanted upon. But on a fair examination of facts, it would be found, that, in 1799, they shared 7 per cent. interest and 10 per cent. 1134bonusbonusViscount Sidmouth
 said, he had no intention to lay any papers of that description upon the table, but noble lords on the other side might have moved for them two months ago, and he should not have objected to their production.Earl Bathurst
1133 thought that all the requisite information upon this subject had already been laid before the House, and that it could be of no use to go into the enquiry proposed by the noble earl. As to the objection that the interest of the Bank proprietors and that of the public were at variance, he contended, that however it might be for the interest of the Bank proprietors for a short time to exceed the
1133Earl Bathurst
 then said:The Lord Chancellor
10 then said:10The Speaker
 replied:The Lord Chancellor
19181716 said, that in rising
19181716The Earl of Longford
20 rose to second the motion,
20Lord Rolle
37res integeret nil36353433323130292827262524232221 said, he could not have approved either of the Speech, or of the Address proposed, had they, with respect to the great contest in the peninsula, or the cause in which the emperor of Russia was now engaged with all the efforts of his people, assumed in any degree a lower tone than that which pervaded them. Nothing less was demanded by the great interests of the country, by a proper zeal for our honour or our welfare, or by a true regard to the interests of our allies embarked in the same mighty cause with ourselves. In all those points he not only applauded the spirit of the Speech which their lordships had just heard delivered, but he almost entirely approved of the general spirit of the Address
37res integeret nil36353433323130292827262524232221Marquis Wellesley
4342onus41403938 rose in reply to the statements and reasoning of the noble marquis, from whom he differed in some as he agreed with him in other of the opinions he had just expressed. In none did he more cordially concur than in that which went to the situation of the country, which ought to be fairly, plainly, and clearly before parliament.
4342onus41403938The Earl of Liverpool
, conceiving that some points urged by noble lords opposite were personally applied to him, shortly explained, that he thought nothing which fell from him warranted a personal allusion on their parts. He warmly remarked, that during the whole period to which he spoke, he had considered the system of the war in the peninsula inadequate to its object; an opinion which he had uniformly declared, and in adherence to which he had resigned his office as secretary of state. He could not particularise objections without the permission of his sovereign or his representative; but if he was allowed an opportunity, he should be ready to meet the noble lords, point by point, upon that subject, either in public or private, and before any tribunal to which he might be summoned.Marquis Wellesley
 defended the conduct of the Admiralty with respect to the American and West India stations, observing, that on the Halifax station alone, long before the commencement of hostilities, the squadron was double the strength of the whole American navy. This he enumerated, as well as the force in the West Indian seas; and stated the American navy to consist of five frigates, and a few sloops of war. It was impossible to guard against such casualties as were alluded to by noble lords opposite, (the capture of the Guerriere frigate); but care was taken to render such attempts an extreme risk on the part of the enemy.Viscount Melville
 moved, that lord Walsingham be constituted chairman of all the committees of that House during the present session of parliament; a motion, the propriety of which, he was confident every noble lord would acquiesce in.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that if the House could secure the services of the noble lord, they would be a blessing.The Lord Chancellor
 shortly expressed his grateful sense of what had fallen from the noble lords.Lord Walsingham
49 vindicated the conduct of ministers with respect to the war in the peninsula, more especially in regard to the degree and nature of the reinforcements to be forwarded to the marquis of Wellington. He observed, that his noble relative opposite well knew the entire confidence ministers placed in that illustrious person, and adverted particularly to the point of lord Wellington's not deeming it advisable to send new regiments to Spain; so particularly careful was that excellent officer of the health of his troops.—With respect to the force from Sicily, the fact was, that lord William Bentinck had instructions to send such a number of troops as was consistent with the other objects to which he had to look. The objection, that by the force sent thence not remaining in Catalonia, the baron D'Erolles was disgusted, had no force, inasmuch as, since that period, (as had appeared by the Gazette) our naval force had been in active co-operation with the baron D'Erolles. As for the charge of not sending reinforcements to the marquis of Wellington, the fact was, that in the month of June lord Wellington sent a dispatch requesting, unless some extraordinary circumstances occurred, that no new corps might be sent out to him, because they were more likely
49Earl Bathurst
50 said, he did not think so badly of ministers as to charge them with neglecting to provide a naval force superior to the American navy, which only consisted of five frigates. His charge
50Lord Grenville
48474645a priori rose in reply to the noble earl, and declared he would not shrink from the opinion he had originally expressed on the subject of the war in Spain. He complimented his noble friend (marquis Wellesley) on the admirable manner in which he had developed his sentiments on the general state of affairs, and particularly on the foreign policy pursued by the ministers of the crown, and characterised the answer, which the noble earl had made to the speech of his noble friend, as feeble, inconclusive and foolish. His noble friend's views were justified both by the Speech from the throne, and still more fully by the noble earl's reply. His lordship then proceeded to state, that he did not deny, or disavow, some words attributed to him by the noble earl. These words he had used on former occasions: but, so far was he from believing them wrong, that he thought he was, this night, fully justified in the use of them, by what had been spoken on both sides of the House. He could not but condemn the replies in general terms resorted to by the noble earl at the head of the administration, a species of discussion in which he was so fond of dealing upon most occasions; whilst the speech of the noble marquis, in which be pointed out the definitive object we ought to have in view in the campaign in the peninsula, whilst it abounded, like every thing that fell from his noble friend, in statesmanlike principles and details, met with his highest commendation. That one ultimate object, stated by his noble friend, deserved, and had his approbation. Whilst the noble earl's comment on the subject of that definitive object, was general, imperfect and desultory. When we engaged first in the peninsular war, the question was not then what it was at present. It was not then, as at present, a question in which all Europe was concerned and engaged; for now all the armies of Europe were or had been lately engaged against this country. Before ministers embarked in the contest, therefore, as had been justly stated by the noble marquis, they ought to have asked themselves what was the definite object they had in view, and what were their means of attaining it. Only one object was professed, and that was the total exclusion of the French from the peninsula, and without being 48474645a prioriLord Grenville
112 presented a Petition from the University of Cambridge, against the Catholic Claims, and stated that he did so, having the honour
112The Duke of Gloucester
 presented a Bill for the better administration of justice, which his lordship stated to be the same as that which was before the House last session, for the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor, and observed that it was quite impossible for any person, whatever might be his talents or his industry, to execute the multifarious duties which now devolved upon the Lord Chancellor, and that the consequence of his not having the requisite assistance, was a delay in the hearing of Appeals and Writs of Error in that House, which was most ruinous and oppressive to the parties concerned.Lord Redesdale
 observed, that due notice had not been given to the nonresident members of the University of the intention to set on foot such a Petition; to the consideration of which, he contended, the attention of the non-resident members ought to have been fairly called, it not being a question of religion, but of political expediency. To shew that the danger to be apprehended from the interference of the Pope was merely ideal, the noble earl observed, with reference to some late proceedings of the Catholic Prelates of Ireland, that the Pope was not to be found, nor could any communication be had with him.The Earl of Hardwicke
113 said that he had a similar Petition to present from the University of Oxford. The mere act of presenting a Petition at variance with his own opinions, was a thing so common in parliamentary usage, that he should not have thought it necessary to notice the circumstance. But both the illustrious personage who had preceded him, and himself, stood in a peculiar situation with respect to these Petitions. They come, my lords, from corporate bodies at the head of which we have the honour to be placed; and they purport to be the Petitions of the chancellors as well as of the other members of our two Universities. The illustrious personage has, therefore, thought it necessary to disclaim all participation in the prayer of the Petition which his Royal Highness has presented, and to remind the House that he has always hitherto (and from motives which all who know them must applaud) abstained from giving any opinion on this great question. For myself, however, I must go much further. My opinions upon it have been long publicly avowed. So far from concurring in this Petition, I am convinced that no other expedient could now be devised so certain and so effectual for bringing upon this country the very evils of which the petitioners are apprehensive, as the adoption of that very policy which they so earnestly recommend. Thus much I stated to your lordships on a similar occasion last year, and my opinion remains unaltered. But I have now a still more painful duty to discharge
113Lord Grenville
 requested the indulgence of the House whilst he said a few words relative to what had fallen from a noble earl (Hardwicke) on a former day, relative to the Petition from the University of Cambridge against the Catholic Claims, he (the bishop of Bristol) not having been in the House on the day alluded to. The right reverend prelate proceeded to state, that it was not usual in the University to give more than three days' notice of any measure intended to be brought forward; but in this instance, it being a measure of importance, six days' notice was given, a longer notice than he ever remembered in the University. He stated this to prove that the proceeding was not unfairly carried through, as alleged by the noble earl; the fact being, that the greater number of those who voted in the minority came from London in consequence of the notice that had been given. With respect to the insinuation as to the motives of those who formed the majority, that they were looking either to preferment or translation, he must leave it to the noble earl himself to consider, whether a mere difference of opinion called for such a charge.The Bishop of Bristol
143142141 said, it was with great and sincere satisfaction he had listened to the just, glowing, and eloquent eulogium which the noble earl had, from his heart, pronounced upon the illustrious subject of the present motion. No person who had the honour to be connected with the family of that illustrious individual who was at the head of our army on the peninsula, could be more anxious to support the proposition now submitted to their lordships than he was. That anxiety was not diminished by the recent unfavourable events which had taken place; for he perfectly agreed with the noble earl, that those circumstances in no degree tarnished or diminished the splendid military fame and character of the noble and gallant marquis, and ought to make no alteration as far as regarded the present proposition. The question was not now, as it was on a former night, and might be at a future period, whether the general had been supplied by the government with proper means and resources? the question now was, whether the means with which the general had been entrusted, had been wisely, skilfully, and successfully, as far as circumstances would permit, applied for the public service? Though unwilling to mix these topics with the present subject, yet this much he might be permitted to say, that if there were any persons who had seen the difficulties of the war in the peninsula in a stronger light than others,—who thought the means of carrying it on were very imperfect,—and who, though admiring the patriotism of the Spanish people, yet feared that the organization, civil and military, in that country, was
143142141The Marquis of Lansdowne
144 cordially agreed with the motion then before their lordships, and was most anxious to add his tribute of applause to the merits of the great officer in question, which were so ably and justly eulogized by the noble earl who opened the discussion. He gave his testimony to the transcendent abilities of lord Wellington, not only from a sense of public duty, but he was influenced in doing it by his own particular obligation to that excellent general. He could tell their lordships, that while his great mind seemed to be wholly taken up with the important cares of his situation, he bestowed an attention almost inconceivable, upon the comforts and conveniencies of those under his command. Whether they were suffering from fatigue, from sickness, or from privations, they were equally the objects of his solicitude. For himself, he knew that to a dear relative of his (major Somers) whose constitution was fast sinking under the severe duties of his station, his parental kindness was such, that it preserved a life which else had been yielded soon after the battle of Salamanca, nor prolonged till that period when he laid it down for his country in a manner which gave him a melancholy pride in saying his son had so died. In alluding thus particularly to his own relation, he was far from meaning to insinuate that his was a single case; lord Wellington's kindness extended to all alike; but he thought it his duty thus to express his peculiar obligation to him. There never was, indeed, a general, as had been justly mentioned by the noble lord opposite, who was less disposed to sacrifice the lives of his men for the acquisition of mere personal glory; but when the services of his king and country required it, never did any one display more ardour, intrepidity, and gallantry. His soldiers knew this, and combining that knowledge with his resplendent talents, what a confidence, he maintained, must it tend to excite throughout the whole army; a confidence highly advantageous to the cause in which we were engaged. He therefore cordially approved of the motion.144Lord Somers
145 felt proud and gratified by all that occurred in the course of the present debate. He should not now intrude on their lordships at any length,—he should not have intruded on them at all, but from the natural wish to give the tribute of a brother's feelings to a brother's praise. The noble earl had said, that only the highest powers of eloquence, chastened by the purest taste, could aspire to an adequate eulogy of his great talents; but he could assure the noble earl, that at the very moment when he disclaimed his own power to pronounce such an eulogy, he had, in fact, discharged it in a manner honourable to himself, honourable to the country,
145Marquis Wellesley
nam. diss. then proposed the motion from the woolsack, which was agreed to nam. diss.The Lord Chancellor
 repeated, that the notice given was unusually long.The Bishop of Bristol
135 contended that the notice was not sufficient, and observed that he himself, although only a day's journey from London, had not notice
135The Marquis of Lansdowne
 observed, that the Petition did not express the sense of the University; the non-resident members not having had sufficient notice.Lord Holland
140139138137136 rose, and addressed the House to the following purport: My lords, in rising to address this House upon a subject of Thanks to our gallant and distinguished general who gained the victory of Salamanca, I am confident there can be no no difference of opinion amongst your lordships with respect to the motion I mean to propose. But before I submit this proposition, your lordships will, I trust, permit me to make a few observations upon the principles of military policy and motives which induced the marquis of Wellington to pursue those measures which eventually brought forth a victory, not only productive of fame to the commander, but of additional glory to the national character. In doing this I shall advance nothing of speculation, but confine myself to facts contained in documents already before your lordships and the public. When lord Wellington had planned the siege and reduction of Badajoz, his great mind suggested ulterior objects, which would ultimately affect the success of our cause in the peninsula. My lords, lam not disposed, at this time, to allude in any manner to the mode of conducting the campaign, further than to the ability with which the noble marquis has, at all times, and in all situations, employed the resources committed to his care. No general, my lords, was ever more careful of the troops entrusted to his command—no general ever more cautiously avoided the sacrifice of lives, when the object to be attained was not equal to the expenditure of so much blood. This disposition marks the career of his military success, and has been particularly manifested in the course of this campaign. From the documents I possess, and not those only which were transmitted after the effect was produced, but those which were written when the plan was conceived, the extent of his genius, and the wisdom of his undertakings are most strongly designated and incontrovertibly proved. They likewise shew how much superior he was to those able generals against whom he had to contend,
140139138137136Earl Bathurst
 trusted, though he was aware it was irregular, that after what had fallen from the right rev. prelate, he should be permitted to trouble their lordships with a few words. He regretted that the learned prelate was not in the House, when the Petition from Cambridge against the Roman Catholic Claims was prepared by the illustrious person who was chancellor of the University, when he had felt it his duty to offer some observations to their lordships, which he was as ready to repeat in the presence of the right rev. prelate, as in his absence. In the first place, it was impossible for him to avoid stating, that considering the great public importance of the subject of the Petition, sufficient notice had not been given to admit of the attendance of any considerable number of the non-resident members. For all questions of a local nature, on which the resident members were certainly well qualified to decide, the notice described by the right rev. prelate as the usual notice, and which had probably been given upon this occasion, was perfectly sufficient; but whenever a question relating to matters of state policy was brought forward, it would be more consistent with fairness and candour to give that degree of notice which would admit of the attendance of the non-resident members of the senate, if they should think fit to give their opinions upon the subject; but he could not help saying, that the seldomer political questions were brought before the senate of the University, the better. With respect to what the right rev. prelate had said on the subject of motives, the noble earl observed, that what he had said was entirely of a general nature, and not applied to the conduct of any individual. The usage of the place did not admit of questions being discussed, or debated, before they were put to the vote; and, therefore, he could not help feeling that many persons might give their votes upon general grounds, without that knowledge and understanding of the question, which must in all cases render the decision more satisfactory to themselves as conscientious individuals, and at the same time give more weight to the opinions of a great public body.The Earl of Hardwicke
186185 again rose, and addressed the House upon the subject of this measure. He was the more induced to state his sentiments, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble and learned lord. The noble and learned lord had intimated his surprize, that no other measure had been proposed by him instead of that recommended in the present Bill. With respect to himself, he did not consider his knowledge equal to the task; and he deemed the argument a little extraordinary which would infer, that because he did not possess that legal knowledge which was most competent to suggest the fittest plan to be adopted, it was to be inferred that he could not consistently state his objections to the one proposed. The noble and learned lord would do him the justice to recollect, that on a former occasion he had not publicly, but privately, communicated to him his objections to the present measure. This was, however, a serious subject, as it affected the state and the law of the country; and although he was afraid he might discover ignorance in his own ideas respecting it, yet, when he saw the noble and learned lord so anxious to push this measure in the absence of those who could have more ably pointed out its impropriety, he felt himself particularly called upon to express his objections to the Bill. With respect to all that had been stated as to the magnitude of the evil complained of, and the immediate necessity for its being remedied, he and the noble and learned lord were perfectly agreed; but he entertained very serious objections against the mode now recommended, not because it would bean unconstitutional measure—no, he had formerly stated that this would be a material alteration in the constitution of this country, and certainly he thought so still—but with all the admiration he ever should cherish for the British constitution, he would be ever ready to acquiesce in any alteration which should be proved to be necessary, and likely to be effectual for the purposes for which it was intended. He begged,
186185Lord Holland
l181 said:—In rising, my lords, to propose an Address in answer to his Royal Highness's most gracious Message, for the purpose of expressing your lordships' concurrence in forwarding his Royal Highness's intention, I am sure I should be wasting your lordships' time, if I were to say one word in recommendation of such a motion. After the able and eloquent speech of my noble friend (earl Bathurst) on a former evening, in moving the thanks of this House to that gallant and distinguished general, and after the able speeches of other noble lords, and of the noble marquis opposite (Lansdowne), upon the same occasion, it would be impossible, my lords, for me to add one expression which could evince more of my own admiration, or raise a higher opinion of the noble marquis's conduct. At the same time, I will venture to occupy a small portion of your lordships' attention in stating a few circumstances respecting this great general, which I think are entitled to consideration. His Royal Highness has stated, that in wishing to confer upon the noble marquis, by an act of munificence, what will enable him to support his merited dignities, he has taken into consideration the signal services the noble marquis has performed for his country, and these services, so constant and unwearied, cannot be too much valued. For four campaigns, my lords, has the marquis of Wellington devoted the powers of his body and mind, to the conduct of the war in the peninsula. In the course of that period, he has been opposed to the most celebrated and experienced of the French generals, to Soult, to Victor, to Jourdan, to Massena, and to Marmont, and not
l181The Earl of Liverpool
nem. diss.182 had no disposition to make any observation upon the present
nem. diss.182Lord Holland
 was desirous of submitting to their lordships' attention, a motion for further information respecting the Bill introduced by the noble and learned lord (Redesdale). The noble and learned lord, on a former night, had expressed his intention to oppose every proposition for delay. But he (lord Holland) was no further desirous of delay, than that before the House passed a measure of such importance, they should have every information requisite to form their judgment upon it. He, therefore, intended to move for the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons, appointed to inquire into the causes of delay, in the decision of suits in the Court of Chancery. He was the more desirous of having this information before them, as it would enable the House better to decide upon the propriety of the Bill, and give time for the attendance of several noble lords who, no doubt, would be desirous of delivering their sentiments upon the subject. There were many objections he entertained against this measure, which he would not enter into at present, but which would probably be stated upon the third reading; and he trusted the noble and learned lord would so far accede to a full consideration of his intended measure, as to postpone its final consideration till after the holidays. In the mean time he should make the motion of which he had given notice, and against which, he believed, there could be no objection.Lord Holland
184l183 did not rise to oppose the motion of the noble lord, but he could assure the House, that no information could be derived from the Report alluded to, capable of altering their opinions upon the measure which he had the honour to propose. Their lordships would recollect that this subject had been under their consideration for nearly three years; that a committee had been appointed, who were unanimously of opinion that the evil com-
184l183Lord Redesdale
l had no desire to have this measure passed through parliament before the holidays; but under the consideration of its necessity, he trusted their lordships would agree to its passing that House, in order that it might go to the Commons as speedily as possible. With respect to the objection mentioned by the noble lord, as to the division of the office of chancellor, it must be recollected, that still the lord high chancellor would be constantly occupied in the decision of most intricate and important points of law before that House. It was impossible, therefore, that the office could be filled by an incompetent person, any more than in its present constitution. The lord chancellor would then equally, as now, be under the observation of the public; and, considering the importance of his legal knowledge in the advice of the crown, it was highly improbable that any minister would venture to appoint any other than a person whose talents and learning fitted him for the situation. The noble lord had suggested the propriety of separating the administration of the bankrupt law from the office of chancellor; but cases of vital consequence to the commerce of the country, more so than all the cases put together in the courts below, came before him for decision; and it would be perhaps dangerous to this department of the law, if the adjudication of these cases were committed to any other jurisdiction.—With regard to the salary of the new judge, there were other sources from whence it might be paid, without burthening the people. It would be considered, that the property of suitors, by various accidents, fell into the hands of Chancery, and had created a fund of considerable magnitude. The amount of this property now vested in the bank of England, exceeded 400,000lLord Redesdale
218l in presenting this Bill to their lordships' consideration, took occasion to remark, that the Insolvent Debtors' Act of last session had contained a clause, extending relief to debtors confined for sums exceeding 2,000218lLord Ellenborough,
243 expressed his regret at the hostility of the petitioners to those concessions to our Catholic fellow-subjects, which he considered essential to the safety and welfare of the state, coupled with an adequate security to the Protestant establishment, to which establishment no man was a warmer friend than himself. He was surprised also at the fear expressed in the Petition, that granting the claims of the Catholics would lead to the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, and thereby remove the security of the Protestant establishment. It was well known that no ministry had ventured to enforce these acts; that they were hung up from year to year, and that no ministry, however intolerant, could venture to carry them into execution. He hoped that these Petitions were merely the over-zeal of individuals, and that they were not set on foot by any of his Majesty's ministers. He trusted, however, that as the discussion of the great question relative to the Catholic Claims was not to come on till after the holidays, that all the Petitions against those claims would be by that time before
243The Duke of Norfolk
245 said, he had no objection to take this Appeal out of its course, provided it could be done without injustice to the other suitors before the House. If the Appeal now alluded to could be heard in the morning, so that it might not interfere with the regular course of proceeding in regard to other appeals, he should be willing to agree to such an arrangement. It would be felt to be an indispensible act of justice to the other suitors to make some such an arrangement, when he stated, that of the 270 Appeals and Writs of Error now on the table, the last of them, according to the mode of hearing hitherto acted upon,
245The Lord Chancellor
 urged the great importance of deciding upon this Appeal as speedily as possible, as it involved in a great degree the existence of Portsmouth harbour.Viscount Melville
246 was perfectly aware of the importance of the case to the public service, and was anxious that some arrangement might be adopted with a view to its speedy decision. He proposed, therefore, that the hearing should commence on the first day after next term, at ten o'clock in the morning, and that the Lords should be summoned during each day of its progress. As to himself, whether in or out of office, he would certainly attend. With regard to the Bill for the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor, he had cautiously abstained from saying any thing upon it, being satisfied, that although it must be admitted that the Bill had reference only to a Chancellor, and not to the Chancellor, still that what fell from him upon the subject, would be received with a certain degree of prejudice. He would, however, say this much, that
246The Lord Chancellor
 had no objection to agree to this arrangement. It was only the importance of the case to the public service that induced him to propose to take it out of its course. His lordship went into the consideration of the Bill recently passed by the House and sent down to the Commons, for the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor, observing, that either that measure must be carried, or the House must abandon its appellate jurisdiction. Which was the more constitutional course, it needed no argument to point out. The greatest grievances and hardships to parties arose from the delay in hearing appeals in that House, and the only effectual remedy he conceived to be, to give assistance to the Lord Chancellor in the Court of Chancery, in order to enable that noble and learned lord to sit in the House of Lords, at times when at present he was required to sit in the Court of Chancery. It was also of importance that some measure should be adopted to compel the attendance of peers, during the mornings for three or four days in the week, in order to the hearing and deciding upon appeals with a due regard to the functions of the House, and the interests of suitors. His lordship moved that the Appeal in question should be taken into consideration on the first day after the recess.Lord Redesdale
 mentioned, that it would be of great importance to the public service to have a speedy decision on an Appeal now before the House, relative; to encroachments in Portsmouth Harbour, and suggested the expediency of hearing it on an early day after the recess.Lord Redesdale
 presented a Message from the Prince Regent, expressing his royal high-ness's desire to render aid to the people of Russia, suffering in consequence of the invasion of France, and recommending to the House to concur in that object. [See proceedings of the Commons].The Earl of Liverpool
317 gave notice of his intention, at an early period after the holidays, to present a Bill relative to Ex-Officio Informations. The noble lord stated, that he should not have again pressed this subject had his former Bill been under the consideration of a large portion of the House; but the fact was, it was brought forward at a late
317Lord Holland
 expressed a wish to put questions to the noble earl opposite upon two subjects to which he had adverted in a former session. With respect to the African Slave Trade, six years had now elapsed since the two Houses of Parliament had united in a wish that applications should be made to foreign powers to procure the abolition of that inhuman traffic. He lamented, however, to observe, that the trade still continued to be carried on under the flags of our allies, Spain and Portugal, but he feared with a large proportion of British capital. He was anxious to know what steps had been taken, making use of the influence which we must naturally have in the councils of those allies, to procure the abolition of this disgraceful traffic, and whether, after the lapse of so long a period, any ne-gociation upon this point had at last been nearly brought to a termination? He did not mean to impute neglect to his Majesty's ministers, but it could not escape notice, that the majority of the Prince Regent's council was now composed of those who were hostile to the abolition of this trade.—With respect to an Exchange of Prisoners, he was also anxious to know whether any steps had been taken subsequent to the last negociation, with a view to the attainment of this object; and whether if it was found not attainable consistently with the honour and interests of the country, it was not intended by ministers to institute an investigation into the causes which had prevented the attainment of this object, so essential to the interests of humanity?Lord Holland
319 stated, with regard to an exchange of prisoners, that
319The Earl of Liverpool
l322321320 said, that in rising to move an Address in answer to his Royal Highness's most gracious Message, he should perhaps have thought it only necessary to move the Address, leaving to that feeling which he was satisfied actuated the great majority of that House and the country, to express a concurrence in an object, which embodied so many sentiments congenial with, and characteristic of genuine British feeling. Understanding, however, that elsewhere some sentiment had been expressed hostile to the purpose of the Message, he felt it necessary to draw the attention of the House to the circumstances which gave rise to it. A greater exertion had been made by the ruler of France against Russia, than he had put forth against any other power. He had entered Russia with a force of not less than 360,000 men, including 60,000 cavalry, and this at a time when, from various circumstances, not now to be entered
l322321320The Earl of Liverpool
323 never felt himself more embarrassed than upon the present occacasion, and had it not been an established rule with him, never to shrink from his parliamentary duty, he would have preferred being absent. His embarrassment arose from this, that he thought the proposition impolitic, but at the same time that it would be unwise and unsafe to reject it. He perfectly agreed with the noble earl in his praise of the patriotism of the Russian nation, and this praise was more particularly applicable to the peasantry, who in sacrificing the produce of their earnings, had not the consolation of those feelings which were inseparable from the soldier, but were actuated solely by motives of pure patriotism. He could not, however, agree in the propriety of the mode proposed, nor did he see that the aid could consistently be afforded, if such a sum was disposable for this purpose, why had it not been applied to replenish lord Wellington's military chest; and might not the emperor of Russia say, if this money had been applied in time to replenish lord Wellington's military chest, it would have been of greater advantage to my cause than sending it now to me? The only argument that could induce him to accede to the proposition, was that used by the noble lord, of shewing a disposition to aid the Russian nation. He agreed that this was of importance, and he trusted, at the same time, that in the alliance of the courts of Peters burgh and London, there was a perfect understanding as to their objects, not only as to carrying on the war, but as to the means of bringing about a secure peace. Whether the emperor of France should escape or not, he trusted that the events that had happened would clear the way for that situation of affairs, which might render a peace upon secure grounds, less difficult of attainment; and that upon this point there was a thorough understanding between the courts of Peters burgh and London. For such an object, so highly to be desired, he anxiously looked to the effects
323Lord Holland
sl324 expressed a wish, that the Bill had been divided into two. To one part of it he was disposed to agree, namely, that which respected distress for rent; it was true, it was a part of a faulty system, but it was certainly necessary to protect tenants from oppression in being called upon to do that which would be, under present circumstances, a violation of the original contract with the landlord; for though a noble friend of his in calling for rents in specie, had laid down rules which were perfectly equitable, yet other landlords might not be actuated by the same equity. So far, therefore, he agreed in the measure; but to the other part of the Bill, which went in fact to declare, that no person should part with gold, except for less than its value, nor take paper except for more than its value, he considered it as a system pregnant with incalculable mischief. He would not now enter into the question of depreciation; but confine himself to the more immediate object of the Bill, and he contended that it was perfectly absurd to attempt by a legislative provision to give a currency to paper, which was not worth the value set upon it. Similar expedients had been the resort of all weak and tyrannical governments, and had successively failed. The natural consequence was, the driving all the gold out of the market, and thus precluding' the means of returning to payments in specie. What good had been ef-
sl324The Marquis of Lansdowne
 contended, that the most mischievous consequences would result from having two prices, and that the supply to our army in the peninsula was best secured by the present measure.The Earl of Clancarty
