 Lord Castlereagh  said, the hon. gentleman could not be more anxious than him-self to give effect to the prayer of the Petition. 362
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that before the adjournment he had given notice of a Bill for the purpose of allowing the Local Tokens already issued to remain in circulation for some time longer, and at the same time to prevent any addition being made to the quantity now in circulation. Many objections had been made to the suppression of this species of currency; but, even if no chance existed of the place of it being adequately supplied by any other kind, it would be wrong to continue a currency so entirely out of the controul of government, so much debased, and confined, from the limited credit of the issuers, to certain districts. As, however, temporary inconvenience might arise from the act in ques-
 363
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was unwilling to hold out any probability of a long term being granted, as he was convinced of the mischievous-ness of the currency in question.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that six months might possibly be objected to, as at the end of that time the House would not be sitting. The proper time for discussing it, however, would be in the committee on the Bill.
 Mr. Whitbread  gave notice, that he should, on the 4th of March, bring forward a distinct proposition on the subject of peace.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he held in his hand a Petition from the owners masters and mates in the merchant service, now prisoners of war in Prance, which though dated on the 15th of December, he had received; but the day be-
 361
 Mr. Peel  rose to explain his reasons for giving the notice of the measure in question. In the beginning of the session, when notice had been given of the continuance of the prohibition of the manufacture of starch from articles of food, he had given notice to the manufacturers of starch in Ireland, that a similar measure would be extended to that country. Representations, however, were made by them, that as that article was employed to a considerable extent in the manufacture of linen, the prohibition of the starch manufacture would seriously affect that of the staple commodity of Ireland. This, on reference to the linen manufactures, turned out to be founded in fact, in con-
 433
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that he should have no objection to the previous question being moved, as he thought the subject might be better discussed when the Bill was brought forward. As to the construction which had been put on the article respecting the export of flour, &c. it would not bear examination, for it would be easily perceived to what extent such an explanation might be carried.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the measure of which his right hon. friend had given notice, was wholly in favour of Ireland. Great Britain laboured under two prohibitions; for while no starch was permitted to be manufactured, it was impossible to export any; while Ireland was not prohibited from manufacturing, but only from exporting. If this measure were not adopted, the prohibition of the manufacture in Great Britain would be nugatory, as the British merchants might carry on the manufacture in Ireland with British grain, and import the produce into this country. He contended that the clause as to the export of grain, &c. applied to starch, as the House had sanctioned the application of it to spirits.
 Mr. Peel  having answered in the affirmative,
 The Speaker  acquainted the House, that he had received from lieut. general sir Samuel Auchmuty the following Letter, in return to the Thanks of the House, on the 10th of January 1812.
 " Madras, August "Sir; I have had the honour to receive your Letter, conveying the unanimous Thanks of the hon. the House of Commons to me and the gallant army under my command during the late service in Java. "To deserve the approbation of his sovereign and his country is the highest ambition of a British soldier; to receive it his greatest boast: be assured, Sir, we feel with pride and with gratitude the distinguished honour conferred on us by the Commons of the United Kingdom, and the recollection of so valuable a reward will animate us to increased exertions when again contending for the honour of
 419 "With sincere pleasure I have obeyed the commands of the hon. House, by communicating to major general Wetheral, and the several officers and corps, the gratifying information that their zeal, their gallantry, and discipline, have been pointedly noticed and acknowledged. "The satisfaction I have derived from "his communication has been greatly in creased by the manner in which you have been leased to convey it, and which demands from me, personally, the most grateful acknowledgments. I have "the honour to be, &c. S. AUCHMUTY, "Lieutenant General." "Right hon C. Abbot, Speaker, &c. &c."
 Mr. Whitbread  presented a Petition of the portmen of the borough of Ipswich, in special assembly convened; setting forth,
 "That the petitioners beg leave to approach the House with sentiments very different from those which they understand to have elsewhere prevailed in the body corporate of which they form a constituent and essential member; and that, impressed with the deep and firm conviction that all civil restrictions on account of religious opinions are in themselves evils, and, except when indispensable for the prevention of greater evils, as unwise in point of policy as they are unjust in principle, and repugnant to the comprehensive spirit of Christian charity; fully satisfied too, on the maturest reflection, that, by the gradual change which has insensibly taken place in the temper and feelings of those who profess the Roman Catholic faith, the prostrate condition of the Papal power, the extinction of all adverse pretensions to the crown of these realms in every adherent to that power, and the incorporation of the Irish with the British parliament, all reasonable grounds for
 426
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the Petition was signed by six names, courtmen of Ipswich. The whole number of these courtmen was twelve, two of whom were disqualified from taking a part on the subject. Of the remaining ten, six had signed this Petition, which, from the liberality of the sentiments expressed in it, he was proud to present.
 Sir John Newport  asked, whether the hon. Secretary for Ireland meant to bring forward to-morrow the measure, of which notice had been given, to prohibit the exportation of Starch from Ireland? the answer to which question would determine, whether he should bring forward some resolutions concerning the Act of Union with Ireland, which he conceived would be violated by that measure.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that by an article in the act alluded to, it was enacted, that after the first day of January, 1801, all bounties on, and prohibitions of, any exports from one of the United Kingdoms to the other, should cease and determine. This solemn agreement between the two countries, he contended, should not be departed from on account of any temporary expedients. If it were once departed from, how could the people of Ireland, who only returned one-sixth of the members of that House, be secure against any encroachments? In proposing what he had to propose, he was actuated by no other wish than that of preserving harmony between the two kingdoms; but he felt that the only means of preserving harmony
 432
 Sir John Newport  replied. By the explanation which had been given of the article concerning grain, the Act of Union might be rendered entirely null. He appealed to the House, whether this clause had been applied to spirits, as in that discussion an entirely different plea had been set up. Alive as he was to the interests of the linen manufacture, he was persuaded that if one infringement was suf-
 434 litera scripta in limine
 Dr. Duigenan  thought that the worthy baronet was needlessly alarmed, since, even supposing that the pamphlet were such as he had described it, it could not make that deep impression upon the minds of the sensible people of England which he had imagined: it was unfounded to assert, that the petitions against the Catholic demands were founded upon statements and arguments derived from the Third Part of the Statement of the Penal Laws. The resistance offered throughout the country, and in the House when the debate should take place, would be grounded upon the first and second parts of the Statement of the Penal Laws, written under the direction of the Catholic committee, and containing their exposition of the grievances under which they labour. He recommended the worthy baronet to read them, that he might be prepared against the discussion of the Catholic question, if he had not already perused them; and if he was acquainted with them, he defied him to maintain that they were not authorised by the Catholic body of Ireland.
 Dr. Duigenan  begged to ask if the hon. baronet did not know that those two first parts were the work of the whole body of Catholics?
 Mr. Canning , from his own personal experience could declare, that this fabrication, in more than one instance, had produced an improper impression: it had induced persons before friendly to conciliation to become hostile to it, upon the perusal of the work. Of this fact he was apprized by letters he had obtained from several persons of respectability, who assured him, that up to the moment before they read this forgery, they were in favour of the Catholics; and that their change of sentiment was entirely to be attributed to it. He had never himself read it; but if it were what it was stated to be, he was happy that so public a disavowal had been given.
 Mr. Peel  stated, that it was not his intention to persist in the motion of which he had given notice on the preceding evening, for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the exportation, from Ireland to this country, of starch and blue. In abandoning the measure, however, he was not influenced by any of the arguments made use of by the right hon. baronet (sir J. Newport) in the short discussion which took place last night. For he did not see the impropriety of preventing the export of those articles from Ireland, when their manufacture was suspended here. Indeed, if
 458
 Mr. Ponsonby  did not mean to discuss the merits of the measure which the hon. gentleman had abandoned; but he wished to observe, in consequence of what fell from the hon. gentleman, that it ought not to weigh with the House, whether an infraction of the Act of Union benefited the manufacturer of this country or of Ireland; their only duty was, to maintain the Act as it stood. The articles were equally binding on both countries, and all the House had to do was to see that they were strictly complied with.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred in the justice of the right hon. gentle. man's observation; but was of opinion that the measure of his hon. friend, if carried into effect, would not have been contrary to the spirit of the Articles of Union. He then moved that the British Starch Prohibition Bill be entered as read; and gave notice, that he would to-morrow move that it be taken into consideration by a Committee of the whole House.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to move the second reading of the Vice Chancellor's Bill, in doing which he entered at large into the causes which rendered the creation of such an office advisable, and stated the reasons which had induced his Majesty's ministers to propose the Bill, He first took a view of the necessity which existed for adopting some measure of the kind; this necessity he contended was indisputable, and therefore the House had no option but to balance between it on the one hand, and the imperfections in any remedy they might think fit to apply on the other. Of its necessity it was not too much to say, that if some mode were not devised to render that judicial portion of our constitution equal to its labours, the whole of the judicial code of the country must be affected, and great injury done to the subject from the impossibility of obtaining timely redress in any suit. As a proof of this, he needed only to state, that there was at present in the House of Lords an arrear of 280 Appeals, which at an average of the rate in which such causes had been decided, could not be determined in less than eleven years. This in itself was a crying grievance to suitors, but the evil did not rest here. It was not confined to the mere suitors in those cases (great as the hardship was to be lamented as affecting them alone), but by the delay in ruling disputed points of law, the number of Appeals themselves were greatly augmented; for in the determination of these causes might be involved some principles, which, till a decision was obtained, kept the subject in ignorance of the law of the land, and multiplied litigation. Thus the mischief was not peculiar, but extended, and the cause of its own increase. The House must also feel that this delay offered a strong temptation to the ill-disposed, and encouraged persons to present Appeals for the mere purpose of postponing the effects of judgments; as it was obvious, that by moving into the House of Lords they could put off the decision for a term of years. An adversary, by the mere fact of interposing himself between a decree and the beneficial effect of it upon the successful suitor, might deprive him of that advantage and of the justice awarded to him for eleven years. Without therefore enlarging further upon this subject, he would take it for granted that the House must feel that it was the bounden duty of the legislature to find out some
 460 461 462 463 464 l l 465 466 467 l 468
 Mr. Peel  rose in consequence of what fell from the hon. member who had accused the Irish government of being the author of the work in question. To-night he had heard, for the first time, from what press it had issued, and he only was made acquainted with the fact of the publication, by receiving a copy of it, accompanied by a letter from the anonymous author. How far it was necessary for the Catholics to attempt to counteract its effect, he would not determine. It was said that no assertion or quotation made in the two former parts were incorrect; it might not be amiss to apprize the House, that the printer of them, a few days since, was convicted of a libel, charging the Lord Lieutenant with deliberate murder.
 Mr. Macdonald  observed, that the Bill professed to be the best remedy that could be devised for an evil felt to exist, the stagnation of the legal business in the House of Lords. And what was this remedy?—to completely new model the Court of Chancery, a court, the transactions in which were so deeply interesting to the public. With respect to the delays which had taken place in the Court of Chancery itself, and the consequent arrear of causes, they were ascribed by different people to different causes: while some attributed them to the indecision of the noble and learned lord now at the head of that court, or to the interruption which he experienced from his political and other avocations—avocations unprecedented in former times, and even in the earlier part of his own time,—others traced them solely and exclusively to the general increase of business in the Court of Chancery itself. He would abstain from comparing the number of decrees made by the present with the number made by former chancellors; but he would compare the remedies proposed for the existing evil. Undoubtedly, the conception of the Bill before the House was not very profound or ingenious. If any mechanic, who had more orders than he could execute, were to complain to his neighbour that he had more business than he could attend to, the answer would certainly be," get a journeyman:" and what more did the present Bill propose: but
 474 lex non scripta 475 l 476
 Mr. Wetherall  was strongly in favour of the measure. If two years discussion and consideration of it were not sufficient, he did not know what would be reckoned a reasonable time for enquiring into its expediency, nor what would satisfy the gentlemen on the other side. The business of the Court, he maintained, had increased so much, that since the year 1750 the number of Appeals had been not only doubled, but trebled. This proved the evil complained of was not a temporary evil, and therefore, being permanent, it was one which called for the permanent remedy now proposed. The hon. and learned gentleman then entered more into detail, and contended, that the Bill offered the most efficacious and constitutional means for redressing the grievances under which the subjects of these realms now laboured, from the necessary delay and arrear of business in the Court of Chancery and House of Lords. He denied that the new officer would be either inefficient or degraded, and on the contrary, argued
 495
 The Solicitor-General , (Sir W. Garrow) in a speech of great animation, gave his opinion in favour of the Bill, and against the Amendment. He insisted on the necessity of providing justice for the subjects of the realm, now exposed to many inconveniencies, by the delay in the courts of law; and replied to the various arguments which had been addressed against the Bill. He ridiculed the idea of taking a judge from each, or from either of the other courts, for the purpose of constituting or relieving a court of equity. The judges in the courts of common law had already more business to perform than, with their utmost diligence, they could get through, and it was absurd to look for relief to those quarters. What then were they to do? A great evil existed—an evil which amounted almost, in many cases, altogether to a denial of justice to suitors and to the public. Were they to acquiesce in this state of the law, or ought not the House rather to declare that it wanted an instant remedy, which they would hasten to apply by passing a Bill of the description now before them. He did not mean to say but
 496
 Mr. Ponsonby  maintained, that the evil created by the Bill would be far greater than the evil it was intended to remedy. The measure would go to alter the judicial system of the country in its very basis; which attempt had never been made before, and was not in the power of the crown itself. He trusted the House would resist that attempt, and reject the Bill altogether, by voting for the amendment.
 Mr. Canning , thinking it inexpedient that this Bill should pass into a law, was desirous of stating his objections to it; and should do so very briefly, as the arguments which had been urged in favour of the Bill were so few in number, and so small in measure, as to require very little refutation. It seemed to be maintained, that the members of this House were not fit judges of such a question. If that disqualification were supposed to apply generally, much more forcibly must it apply to those members (of which he was one) who could boast of no means of forming a judgment but plain sense unadorned with legal learning. He must however protest against any such plea in bar of their discussions; and must deny that the lay part of the House were implicitly to adopt the  dicta 485 486 487 scandalum magnatum 488 489 onus 490 491
 Mr. B. Paget  adverted to the number of respectable signatures affixed to the Petition; it had been in Beaumaris only two days, and yet 800 names were subscribed.
 Mr. Bankes  rose and observed, that the noble lord had endeavoured to render his measure agreeable to one portion at least of the House; and to none more than himself, by stating that it would be attended by no public expence. Highly, however, as he prized this part of the scheme, he could not approve of it unless it had other distinct merits. In all matters of innovation, two things were to be considered; first, whether the evil were of an alarming size; secondly, whether the remedy was likely to be efficient, and answer its purpose. In the present case, he allowed, that a deplorable evil existed; the grievance was of such a nature, that though justice was supposed, proverbially, to exalt her head, and flourish in this country, yet the delays of her administration had been such as to come little short of a denial. Yet he should do wrong to rest satisfied with a remedy that was not at once comprehensive and constitutional. If the Bill intended merely to provide a temporary remedy for a temporary pressure of business, it might, perhaps, with some modifications, be more generally agreeable; but when it was proposed to introduce a permanent innovation into the administration of justice, the House should pause, unless it were demonstrated, that the remedy provided was the best possible remedy. It might be said, that a pressing grievance required a speedy remedy; but in his mind, the time would be well spent, and the delay wisely protracted, which should be dedicated to the consideration of a measure more calculated to answer its purposes, and less liable to objections on constitutional grounds. His opinions were sufficiently known on the subject of economy; but whenever economy alone was opposed to measures of a more substantial nature, it ought undoubtedly to give way. His objection to the present Bill was, that the remedy proposed would be found totally insufficient for the purpose for which it was intended, and it was
 469 470 471 472 473
 Mr. Grattan  remarked, that the Third Part of the Statement of the Penal Laws had been expressly denied by the Catholics of Ireland to have originated with them, and he read to the House the following Resolution the body had come to upon the subject, on the 6th instant, at Dublin:—" Resolved, that a pamphlet entitled 'The Third Part of a Statement of the Penal Laws which aggrieve the Catholics,' having been industriously circulated throughout England, for the manifest purpose of misleading our fellow subjects, and counteracting the growing liberality of sentiment, is now disclaimed by the Catholic Board, who cannot suppress their astonishment at the success of the imposition: that the said pamphlet is a gross and defamatory mis-statement—a malignant and malicious forgery, slandering our views and principles—misrepresenting our just and reasonable complaints—falsely purporting to be the authorised publication of the Catholic Board, and really originating in a venal branch of the Dublin press, and which, however received and credited in the sister country, has not imposed upon a single individual in this."—The right hon. gentleman
 457
 Mr. Stephen  observed that the light manner in which the question was taken up, appeared to his mind not at all consistent with the weight and magnitude of the subject. From the consideration of the facts contained in the reports, and which other gentlemen had not perhaps brought into a proper focus for their observation, it appeared to him important to draw the attention of the House to the magnitude of the evil which it was the object of the present Bill to remedy. The delay that necessarily followed from the over pressure of public business was acknowledged to be so great as to amount, in some cases, to a denial of justice. This was a grievance to which no British subject ought to be exposed. Let them look to the state of the case. There were not less than 273 appeals now depending before the high and supreme tribunal of the country, one of which was hanging over, without decision, for not less than 20 years; seven for 11 years; 39 for above seven years; and 77 for above five years. From a calculation made in 1810, the average number of Appeals decided annually was 10, and, on that principle, what with new Appeals, it would take 46 years before the whole could be disposed of. This denial of jus-
 477 478 l l 479 480 l l l
 Mr. Smyth  thought it was incumbent on the House not simply to ascertain that the
 482
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  observed, that no notice had been taken in the House of Lords of the arrears of business in the Court of Chancery previous to a motion which he made about two years ago. He did not then propose his plan as a perfect one, but as one which might be improved. The great delay of justice, he affirmed, at that time, was, in fact, a denial of justice. Lord Mansfield formerly sat for lord Thur-low, as temporary Speaker of the House of Lords; and why might not a temporary Speaker be now appointed? In his opinion, it became the House to repel an in-
 484
 Mr. Whitbread.  This is the first time I ever heard it said, that because a man had been found guilty of a libel, he could not correctly quote an act of parliament.
 Mr. Whitbread  wished to make one or two observations on what had fallen from the right hon. doctor, who now appeared in the hey-day of his triumph. Time had been when the learned doctor had taken a most active part against the Catholics; time had been, when for a whole session, he had maintained a most unaccountable silence: the House was now threatened that a time would come when another speech would be heard from the same quarter; and the learned doctor took upon himself to say, not only that his own, but that the arguments of all gentlemen on that side of the question, would be drawn from the two first parts of the Statement of the Penal Laws: they had concerted together as to the line of their proceedings, and they were to fasten themselves on what the learned doctor called the work of the whole Catholic body. It appeared that the Petition now offered was founded upon a fabrication; it originated in a disgraceful forgery, and the House was called upon to listen to the language of those who had been cheated into a resistance to those claims, which, but for the gross imposition, they might have supported. The third part of the Statement purported, like the two former, to be the work of a Catholic, but it was in truth the production of some venal Protestant, who had attributed to the Catholics sentiments that they abhorred. The learned doctor had thought it right to volunteer a declaration of the mode in which his colleagues would resist the reasonable claims of some most injured individuals, and this Petition would afford a specimen of the mode in
 456
 Mr. Serjeant Best  thought there was no measure more likely to produce the desired effect than that now before the House. It was said truly from the opposite side, that the number of Appeals
 483
 Mr. W. Courtenay  opposed the present Bill, to which he had the most serious objections. He did not deny that the evil existed, and that a remedy should be applied; but he thought it should be more efficacious than that proposed by the Bill, which was much more extensive than the nature of the case required. He would now assume, whether justly or not, that the remedy proposed was two-fold: one for the evil said to exist in the Court of Chancery, and the other for that said to exist in the House of Lords. With respect to the first, it was not easy to state how far those invested with the highest judicial functions could or could not, ought or ought not to conform to the judicial character. The different other expedients which had been suggested, had their apology in the taunting manner in which those who opposed this Bill had been called upon to substitute some other project in its place; and, therefore, he would suggest a remedy that had not hitherto been mentioned. In the House of Lords great part of the appeals, at least four-fifths, were from Scotland, and in cases where the decision must turn upon the facts, and not upon the law. The appeal in those cases was from a jurisdiction which had an opportunity of knowing the facts, to one which had not such an opportunity. Most lawyers, he believed
 481
 Mr. Tighe  observed, that the Roman Catholics would concur in any fact adduced in the two first parts of the Statement: upon them they would willingly rest their cause. Who was the author of this scandalous fabrication he did not know, but he trusted that the criminal would soon be dragged from his lurking place into public view. Although it must be known to be a malicious calumny, it had been industriously circulated free of postage, to every part of the kingdom, and it had actually issued from one of the government presses of Ireland. Whether it were intended for wit or for malice he knew not—the author had failed in the former; in the latter he had been too successful; it was the dull work of some dull underscribe of the Irish government; its dullness was only exceeded by the stupidity of those who could for a moment give credit to it.
 Sir H. Parnell  replied, that although he
 455
 Sir Henry Parnell  rose for the purpose of stating some extraordinary circumstances that had come to his knowledge respecting the Petition now offered. At the meeting which was convened for the purpose of suggesting it to the county, the gentleman who proposed it, made a speech of an hour and three quarters long, in order to prevail upon his hearers to adopt it. This address, instead of detailing facts, or urging arguments against the
 454 data
 Sir Samuel Romilly  could not content himself with giving a silent vole upon this question, which if agreed to would effect a complete change in the character of future Lord Chancellors; and that the country would never again see such men as Somers, Camden, or Hardwicke. He could not support the present Bill; for although he must admit, and every body must admit, that the evil which was stated was a most serious one, yet he conceived that the remedy proposed was still more serious, and that it was an evil still greater than that which it purported to reform. The evil which now existed might, however, be considered as a temporary one; whereas, the remedy proposed would, if agreed to, bring upon them one that in his opinion would be permanent. They were now called upon to remedy an evil, which the other House had taken no step for many years to remove. The House of Lords, though the arrears had long been growing upon them, had never taken any active measures for removing the evil. They had not continued their sittings longer in order to diminish the arrear of causes before them, nor had they met earlier in the day, nor ever proceeded to the decision of any appeal in the absence of the Lord Chancellor. This it had been the practice of the House to do in former times, and in some cases it might be better that the cause should be decided on in his absence, as Appeals from his decisions frequently came before them. He thought there could be no difficulty in procuring the attendance of a sufficient number of lords to hear causes, in the absence of the Lord Chancellor, and by this means alone the evil might gradually be removed. He did not think any other remedy was necessary, and at least he thought what he had mentioned ought to be tried, before a measure like that now proposed were adopted. If their lordships had either met earlier in the morning for this purpose, or continued their sittings by shorter adjournments, or had decided causes even when the Chancellor was not present, there would not now have been such an arrear of business before them. The question however was not whether any
 492 493 494 l
 Lord Castlereagh  disclaimed any intention of opposing the motion of his hon. friend, or of entering into the discussion of its merits on the present occasion. But,
 508
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in proposing the committal of the Local Tokens Bill, observed, that the period to which he proposed to extend the power for allowing the circulation of Local Tokens, he was induced, upon farther consideration, to abandon. That period was the 1st of October, but he now meant to fix upon the 5th of July, because parliament might in that case make farther arrangements, should an adequate supply of Bank Tokens happen not to be forthcoming, which appeared by no means probable. Indeed, he had every reason to expect that the Local Tokens might, without any public inconvenience, be wholly dispensed with, at even an earlier period than the 5th of July; such was the improved prospect of the currency. As to the animadversions upon his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer, in consequence of his allusion to the probable necessity of a different measure upon the subject for Ireland, he thought it necessary to say a few words. It was but candour in his right hon. friend to express the inclination of his mind, in order that, if the measure he at the time of the expression contemplated, should really become necessary, no member
 509
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  repeated the intention of government to send to Ireland as large a supply of bullion as possible; sufficient he hoped to remedy the grievance complained of. But if that supply should be insufficient, it would be open to his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer, to bring forward the measure he had mentioned upon the subject of Local Tokens.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in reply to the observations of the noble lord, stated, that there was one simple fact upon which he grounded the calculations adverted to by the noble lord, namely, that the exchange had advanced 15 per cent. in our favour; and it was unnecessary to describe the consequence of such advance upon our supply, and the price of bullion. Care would, of course, be taken that the value of any tokens issued by the Bank, should keep pace with the market price of silver, and for such equality the public had no guarantee upon the mass of Local Tokens. As to the tokens already issued by the Bank, he believed the noble lord was misled respecting the number withdrawn from circulation. But any that had been withdrawn were most likely to return to circulation, when the new issue of Bank tokens should take place, and the competition of Local Tokens should be withdrawn.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he did not see any great inconvenience result from the Local Tokens, they were so inferior to the coin of the realm, that they were limited in circulation, and as soon as the Bank should issue silver to any great amount they would fall of themselves.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  bowed assent, and the blanks were filled up with the 5th of July.
 Lord A. Hamilton  thought, that if the right hon. gentleman had no other reason to hope for an issue of silver, than the improvement of the exchange, the hope was a frail one.
 Lord A. Hamilton  asked upon what ground the Chancellor of the Exchequer calculated upon such an increased supply of bullion by the period he had proposed to insert in the Bill, and whether he had any plan for keeping his new tokens, when issued, in circulation? Was the right hon. gentleman aware how much of 1,700,000 l
 Mr. Bankes  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his promised motion upon this subject. He should not, he said, mis-spend the time of the House on this occasion, in detailing
 507
 Mr. Whitbread  thought the 5th of July an inconvenient time, as in all probability the House would not then be sitting, and great inconvenience would ensue from withdrawing the Local Tokens, in case the Bank should not be prepared to make the expected issue. If, however, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would agree to bring the matter under consideration before parliament should be prorogued, he would refrain from moving an amendment.
 Sir John Newport  observed, that ministers seemed to think it necessary to hold an undefined proposition over Ireland, while there could be no doubt of its wants as to circulating medium, and while no assurance was given that a sufficient quantity of bullion would be provided by government for the supply of those wants. It was in consequence of these wants, that the Commercial Company of Waterford applied some time since to the Irish government, soliciting either an adequate supply of silver, or liberty to issue tokens themselves for the accommodation of business; but the application was unsuccessful, although he could assure the House that the distress occasioned, and especially among the poor peasantry, by the scarcity of silver, was most severe. Indeed, the peasant who brought his bacon or other articles to Waterford, was obliged to return home with a check as payment, and which he was but too likely to lose, or obliged perhaps to go to market again to get his check changed. Thus were these poor people, to whom any government should look with peculiar solicitude, exposed to serious inconvenience. But he hoped that his Majesty's government would take their case into consideration, and contrive to relieve their distress.
 Lord Castlereagh  moved the order of the day for the House going into a Committee on the Vice-Chancellor's Bill. On the question for the Speaker's leaving the chair being put,
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that it could not be considered as a compliment in him to observe, that any proposition which came from a member of such eminence and weight as the hon. and learned gentleman
 532 533 534
 Mr. Wetherall  bore testimony to the ac curacy of the statement of his hon. and learned friend, and the clearness with which it had been made. His objections could only apply to the arrangements
 535
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he had been glad to hear the accuracy of the statements of his hon. and learned friend admitted, and still more so to hear it conceded that the arrangements proposed by him would meet the evil; and his satisfaction was not a little encreased, when he heard the objections to those arrangements. Compared with the admissions that had been
 536 537
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that it was not his intention to press a decision on the Bill, until it was printed with the amendments, and in the hands of the members. There was no desire to hurry it through, nor to call for any decision, till an opportunity was afforded for every member, to make himself fully acquainted with the nature of the measure proposed, and ascertain whether or not it was likely to be efficacious in remedying the evil under which the country laboured. He should propose Friday, or that day se'nnight, as the day for bringing up the Report.
 Lord Castlereagh  proposed to fill up the blank left for the Vice-Chancellor's salary, with the sum of 5,000 l l
 Lord Castlereagh  was proceeding to explain the manner in which the payments would be made, when
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that, of the various sums paid into Chancery, a part must remain unclaimed; and they were not acting on any new principle, in taking a portion of this dead cash, to defray the expences of Chancery; particularly as care would be taken that no appropriation of this money should interfere with the claim of any suitor who could make good his title.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, ironically, it gave him great satisfaction to find, that those hon. members who expressed their conviction that, in the committee, such improvements would be made in the Bill as would render it quite palatable to them, had all their wishes fulfilled by the introduction of the clauses and the filling up of the blanks as proposed by the noble lord. The Bill was so framed that the Court of Chancery must be now rendered a perfect model of legal dispatch and judicial celerity. So complete was it in all its parts, that he was almost tempted to believe it would banish litigation from the world. Nothing would remain but a little amicable controversy, as to who had a right to this, and who had a right to that. He could not help again congratulating those gentlemen who expected that the Bill would be rendered so perfectly palatable.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed that similar objection would lie to the payment of the salaries of the Masters in Chancery, and to a variety of other expences, which were defrayed from this fund, for which there were no claimants.
 Mr. Wetherall  said, that the use made of the dead fund was a mere conditional appropriation, in the same way as government applied to the exigencies of the state, one million of the unclaimed dividends.
 Mr. Baring  said, it was clear this fund did not belong to the public, and it was, therefore, dishonest to meddle with it. Those who could make out a claim to the principal, had an equal right to the interest.
 Lord Castlereagh  rejoined, that a moiety of the 5,000 l
 The Speaker  said, if a complaint was made by the hon. member, he ought to deliver in the paper. The House was not to notice a practice which it did not mean also to punish.
 Mr. Bathurst  said that after the delay which had been granted by the noble lord
 543 544
 Mr. Tierney  was of opinion, that, as it was proposed to take 5,000 l
 Mr. Stephen  wished to explain the misapprehensions which seemed to exist relative to the dead fund. If a Chancery suitor applied to have the litigated property vested in stock, it was always done: but, where the parties did not express a wish to that effect, the Court did not like to interfere, lest a loss might be sustained, which was not unlikely to happen, where stock was purchased in one term, and sold in the next. If such a loss were occasioned by the mere act of the Court, unauthorised by the suitor, the latter might conceive himself hardly dealt by. When the fund in the Bank of England accumulated very much, a part of it was vested in stock, the interest of which was laid out in the building of the Six Clerks Office, and defraying other expences connected with the Court of Chancery; but every act of parliament provided for the security of the persons whose property was thus put
 552 l
 Mr. Stephen  said, that his hon. and learned friend had expressed his intention
 545 546 547
 Mr. Stephen  said, that was done merely for the convenience of business; and he was entirely ignorant of the proposition standing on any constitutional objection to the propriety of the Masters in Chancery holding seats in parliament.
 Mr. Leach,  in rising to oppose this motion, said he must admit the extent of the evil against which it was the declared intention of the Bill to provide, and that the evil demanded an immediate remedy. He was perfectly aware that some decisive measure was imperiously called for to counteract the inconvenience which, under the present system, was experienced, but to that now before the House he had the strongest objections. He opposed it because it appeared to him to tend in its consequences to disengage the Lord Chancellor from a great portion of his judicial functions, and to render an office which was primarily judicial and secondarily political, primarily political and secondarily judicial. He opposed it, too, because there was another and an adequate remedy to which no objection could be made. 520 521 522 523 524 525 526 527 528 529 530 531
 Mr. Leach  explained. The noble lord had not fairly represented him, to say that he had allowed only the same period for the average length of causes before the Master of the Rolls, and those of which this mass of delay was composed: for, it must be in the recollection of the House, that he had allowed thrice as much time for the latter as for the former. The House would probably indulge him in a few words, which might not be strictly termed explanation. The appeal causes which came before the privy-council in the Cockpit, were in part legal, in part equity causes. The employment of the Master of the Rolls in that court was in consequence of the causes of an equitable nature, but there was a judge, who entertained jurisdiction over both these species of causes, and who would, it could scarcely be denied, be a very proper judge to be entrusted with the administration of justice in this particular branch. Such a judge was the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, an officer whose functions rendered him equally competent to decide in questions of law and in matters of equity, and he was also already a privy counsellor. It had been said, that the time of this judge could not be taken from the Court of Exchequer without inconvenience. But this objection was easily obviated, without any inconvenience. For ten days after each term, the judges were occupied in the Exchequer with what were termed equity sittings. These 40 days were more than equal to the time occupied by causes at the Cockpit. During these sittings the Lord Chief Baron might sit at the and there would be left three judges at the Exchequer to hear these equity causes. Could this be esteemed an inconvenience, when the business of the first equity court in the country was managed by one judge? With reference to the same point, too, he had to observe, that whenever the great seal was put in commission, the number of judges appointed was three. So that in the present case there could be no great inconvenience in having three judges, the number which he proposed to leave in the Court of Exchequer, instead of four as it was now constituted.
 Mr. Simeon  said, the hon. gentleman had most strangely mistaken the fact. He seemed to think that the Court took the property of suitors from them, to apply it to its own purpose. The truth was, that vast sums of money were paid into Chancery, and from thence lodged in the Bank of England, where they lay dead and unproductive, unless the parties applied in time to have them vested in the funds, and the dividends carried to a distinct account, for the benefit of the successful suitor. Every shilling was appropriated to the benefit of the suitors, and, if they neglected to make their claims, it was their own fault, not that of the Court.
 Mr. Simeon  said, that the principal of those sums was not used. The interest, arising from the investment of a portion of this fund, which would otherwise lie dead and produce nothing, as no claimant was known who could direct its application, was alone appropriated to the expences of the court.
 Mr. Simeon  observed, that, eighteen years ago, when he became a Master of Chancery, not one of the ten gentlemen who composed that body had a seat in parliament; and, of those who had been admitted by the present Chancellor, a very small portion were members of that House; it was consequently but just to infer, that, in appointing them, no political object was attended to.
 Mr. Marryatt  was of opinion that the Chancellor would derive a great relief from the business of bankrupt petitions being withdrawn from him. He had been himself recently an assignee in a commission of bankruptcy, in the course of the proceedings consequent on which the Chancellor had to hear six petitions immediately, and live others remotely connected with the commission. The House would estimate the amount of labour that might be spared him not only in the hearings but in the perusal of the multifarious documents on which he was to frame his decisions.
 Mr. Taylor  said, he did not wish the
 519
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he rose to complain of an unmerited attack which had been made upon him by an individual in one of the daily prints, and which, while he had a seat in that House, he would not submit to. He had no objection to the publication of the debates of the House; but in these debates false accounts ought not to be suffered to go out to the public, nor false insinuations allowed to be thrown out, which might have a tendency to lower the character of any member of that House in the public estimation. He had occasion to notice an attack which was made upon him in the same paper about two years ago. Whether this originated in any ill will entertained against him by the Editor of the paper or not, he could not say. This was not his case alone, but that of every other member of the House. The press was now teeming with these sort of attacks, and every individual ought to resent them. Within these walls he had a right to look for protection. He appealed to the House if there was a syllable of truth in what the Editor had asserted. He alluded to the British Press newspaper. The Globe, which contained the same account, was, he believed, edited by the same person. In the account of the debate on the Vice-Chancellor's Bill on Thursday night, he was described as having been assailed with loud noise in the course of his speech. He appealed to the House if this was the case. In the paper in question he was described also as having, with a degree of arrogance, said he would not waste his valuable time in answering lord Redesdale's book. Such was the vicious and unfounded mode of attack resorted to by the Editor of this paper. (A. general call of "Read, read!")—It was not his intention to read the account, us he did not wish that the individual in question should be visited with punishment.
 Mr. Preston  said, that commissioners ought to be appointed to examine into the nature of that fund, and to probe it to the bottom. It was not right that property should be left in Chancery, "a dead fund," as it was termed, because those to whom it belonged had not an opportunity of extricating it. He hoped, therefore, some legislative provision would be made to render this an active fund. And, if no
 550
 Mr. Preston  objected to the payment of any part of the salary of the Vice-Chancellor, out of those funds which belonged to the suitors of the Court. If no other person undertook the task he should feel it to be his duty to bring the subject of the dead fund under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Gordon  observed, that his objection did not go to the method in which the payment was to be made, but to the payment altogether.
 Mr. R. Gordon  thought, if the Chancellor were to pay any part of the salary, he ought to pay the whole, as he gave up the principle by contributing any portion. He would therefore oppose the clause.
 Mr. R. Gordon  said, that the suitors' money, in his opinion, should be put out at interest, to accumulate for their benefit, and not be suffered to lie dead in the Bank of England, or be applied to purposes such as were proposed by the present Bill. What had fallen from the hon. gentlemen opposite confirmed him in his opinion of the impropriety of paying any part of the Vice-Chancellor's salary out of this fund. He hoped the next time the Bill came before them, the noble lord would be authorized to state, that the Lord Chancellor, since the measure was for his benefit, coincided in his objection, and had volunteered to come forward and pay the whole salary himself. He was sure such a determination would be approved of by the whole House, and he might even add, by the whole country.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  thought the case put by his hon. friend (Mr. Preston) was a very strong one. It appeared that a fund was formed out of sums of money belonging to persons who, from poverty or other causes, were unable to make good their claim. It was the property of those who represented the persons to whom it originally belonged and not of the Court of Chancery. He, therefore, thought some mode should be adopted, by commissioners or otherwise, to give relief to individuals thus situated.
 Sir S. Romilly,  in explanation, said, that in the observation he had made, as to persons being members of parliament, as well as judges, he certainly had no intention to insinuate that his hon. and learned friend did not discharge his judicial duties with great propriety, because he was a member of that House. He had on the contrary, no hesitation in saying, that his hon. and learned friend's duties could not be better or more correctly performed by any person than they were by him. He merely meant what had fallen from him as a general proposition, without intending to allude to any individual. Of this he was sure, that the present Lord Chancellor had
 548
 Sir S. Romilly  said, that before going into the committee he should say a few words on the provisions in this Bill, and in the first place offer some remarks on the
 538 539 540 l 541 542
 Sir S. Romilly  said, the observation of his hon. friend (Mr. Preston) was perfectly correct. There was, in the Court of Chancery, a very large and an increasing fund, which was undoubtedly ready, when the suitors came and claimed it. But there were a variety of circumstances, which rendered it almost impossible to make out a good title; for instance, the death of the parties, the difficulty of finding representatives, the neglect of solicitors, &c. In consequence of this, large sums remained in Chancery, which had not been claimed for many years, and perhaps never would. But the Court ought to afford facilities for getting out a great part of this property, as it seemed, that it was locked up there, on account of
 551
 Sir S. Romilly  said, it was very strange that the Court of Chancery would not invest any part of the dead fund for the benefit of the suitors, without being desired by them, and yet, without their leave, would put it out at interest for the benefit of others,
 Mr. Horne  supported the Bill; but from the low tone in which he spoke, it was impossible to collect the greater part of his speech. The evil which called for remedy arose in part in the Court of Chancery, and in part in the House of Lords. To the inconvenience in the latter place the Master of the Rolls could apply no adequate remedy. He also supported the Bill, on the ground, that the Lords had approved of it, and that as the arrear of causes lay with them, it was natural to suppose they were the most competent to ascertain the remedy.
 The Solicitor General  (sir William Garrow) said he did not propose to enter at large into the question in this early stage; but as he was not in parliament when his hon. and learned friend brought his Bills forward,
 568 569 s 570 571 572
 The Solicitor General , in explanation said, that he and his hon. and learned friend agreed as to the propriety of carrying the sentence of the law into effect in the case of the silk stealers last year on the river Thames. He must also allow, that his hon. and learned friend in his clause, left discretion enough to the judges.
 Mr. Bathurst , as he was the only individual present of that body whose duty it was to advise the sovereign with respect to the infliction of capital punishments; and as so much had been said of the case of the persons who had been convicted of stealing silk on the Thames, begged permission to offer a few words on the subject. The hon. and learned gentleman had disclaimed any intention of imputing blame to the judge in that case in the discharge of his legal duty; but did he recollect that the opinion of a judge was also always taken with respect to the propriety of enforcing a capital punishment? The fact was, that the case in question was one of systematic depredation on the part of persons connected with the conveyance of a very large portion of the mercantile property of the port of London. Adverting to what his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, had said of the scrutiny which his majesty had always been in the habit of personally instituting into the cases of those unfortunate individuals, whose crimes had subjected them to the sentence of death, he observed, that the same description would have been strictly applicable to the conduct of his royal highness the Prince Regent on similar occasions. As to the address of the jurymen who had tried the silk case, he had no doubt that the hon. and learned gentleman knew the person by whom it had been drawn up. He did not believe the Petition to have been drawn up by the persons by whom it was
 575
 Mr. Bathurst  denied having asserted or insinuated that the hon. and learned gentleman knew any thing about the Petition. He certainly had understood that it was written by a gentleman in habits of intimacy with the hon. and learned gentleman, and who took a similar view of the subject under discussion.
 Mr. Ryder  was glad to hear the sentiments which he had so often expressed on the question before the House, confirmed by the Solicitor-General, who, it must be allowed by all, had more practical knowledge of the criminal law than any man in parliament. In his opinion the circumstances attendant on the case of the depredators on the river afforded the most ample proof of the advantage of allowing the law to remain on the statute book, for the purpose of being enforced on proper occasions.
 Mr. Frankland , alluding to the remark of the hon. and learned mover, that this country was reproached by foreigners for the barbarity of its criminal code, observed, that they expressed such opinion from a knowledge of our criminal law, without knowing how it was administered. Had they seen the manner in which those laws were administered, they never could have expressed such opinion. Adverting to the punishment of the persons convicted of stealing silk on the river Thames, he expressed the extreme regret that he felt at hearing his hon. and learned friend say that the crime was aggravated by the value of the commodity stolen. With respect to the general jurisprudence of the country, every endeavour was made to govern strictly by the law, in spite of the difficulty which existed in doing so; nor were those extraordinary interpositions usual which in despotic countries were habitual. He hoped the new parliament would apply itself diligently to this subject, that it would consider the actual situation of the country, and that it would allow the continuance of that kind of discretion on the part of the judges, from which so much public benefit had hitherto been derived.
 Sir S. Romilly , misunderstood by the House in general, as he was sorry to observe he had been by his two honourable and learned friends, who had attributed to him many propositions which were by no means his, but which he considered to be as mischievous as they considered them. He wished particularly that his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, would take the trouble of informing himself more correctly as to his opinions, and he would find that they were as opposite as night and day to those which he had ascribed to him. His hon. and learned friend seemed to imagine that he was not disposed to allow the judges any discretion. Now really if his hon.
 573 574
 Sir Samuel Romilly  hoped, that in again drawing the attention of the House to a part of the general laws of the country, which he had already on a former occasion brought under their notice, he should not be considered guilty of any impropriety. The Bill which he at present meant to introduce was one which had twice passed that House; but had been rejected in the House of Lords. No person had more respect for the quarter from which opposition had come than himself, and if he imagined by again introducing a measure which had been considered impolitic, he should be supposed to act from the least disrespect to that quarter, no person could feel more concern than he would. But from all that he had observed since the last consideration of the subject, he felt he should not be doing his duty if he did not bring the subject under the attention of a new parliament. It would be in the recollection of the House, that in 1810; he had proposed to bring in three Bills; one of which was to repeal the act of king William, which rendered it a capital offence to steal property to the amount of five shillings privately in a shop; another to repeal the act of queen Anne, which pronounced it a capital offence to steal to the value of 40 s s 563 564 s s 565 * ipso vivente while alive
 Sir S. Romilly , in explanation, warmly, and upon his honour, protested that he knew nothing of the origin of the Petition. One of the jurymen had called at his chambers two or three days before the execution of the sentence of the law, to say that such an address had been sent to the Prince Regent, and to ask if any thing could be done to support it. His reply was, that nothing could be done, but that he had no doubt all proper attention would be paid to the subject. He had forgotten this affair until a day or two ago, when he applied for and obtained a copy of the Petition. He repeated, that he had not the most distant conception by whom the address was written, it was a very ordinary and ungrammatical production, by no means above the level of the powers of composition of a common tradesman.
 Mr. Canning  addressed the House nearly as follows: 634 635 636 637 638 639 their 640 641 642 643 644
 Lord Castlerengh  briefly replied, and stated, that letters of marque had been issued in consequence of the failure of the attempt to conclude an armistice by admiral Sawyer and sir G. Prevost.
 Lord Castlereagh,  in rising to call the attention of the House to a most important subject, namely, the negociations which had preceded the present state of our relations with the United States of America, thought it necessary to remark, that it was not the ordinary practice of the ministers of the crown to bring before parliament documents for the purpose of showing that they were entitled to the approbation of the legislature; and if those now laid before the House had that tendency, it would be recollected that the production of them had been frequently requested, and pressed by gentlemen on the other side. His Majesty's ministers were generally disposed to be satisfied with the pleasing reflections which arose from the consciousness of duties fulfilled and zeal employed to promote the public welfare; it would savour of arrogance to obtrude, themselves, the details of their services, however meritorious they might be, upon the notice of parliament, and challenge the approbation of that high tribunal, how fervently soever they might desire to obtain it. The correspondence now submitted to the House comprehended a period of two years and a half, and the perusal of these various papers would
 594 595 596 597 598 599 600 601 prima facie 602 603 604 605 606 projet projet 607 608 projets projets projets 609 610 611 612
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that though the noble lord had not quoted any expressions of his, yet as he stood in a very prominent situation, and had not unfrequently delivered
 613 614 615 flagrante bello 616 617 618 619
 Mr. Baring  said, he would not go into the subject of the Orders in Council. They were dead, and nothing need be offered to the House upon them. Neither would he enter upon the consideration of the Licence Trade, which had grown out of them, but was now abandoned, and given up as injurious to the country. He was aware the sentiments he was about to deliver were not very popular in that House; yet his sense of duty would not allow him to with-hold them. He then stated, that he did not believe the assertions of the noble lord were correct, that the American declaration of war was at all connected with the state of Russia and France, which had no influence on the American government. They looked little to European politics; and it was impossible to read the papers produced, and not see that the sole cause of the war was the Orders in Council. This was evident from one of the very last dispatches of the noble lord himself to Mr. Foster, which was to be communicated  in extenso 620 621 in limine 622
 Mr. F. T. H. Foster  (late ambassador
 623 624 625 626 627
 Mr. Croker  said, the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, had expressed deep regret at the neglect of the government, in not inflicting a terrible chastisement upon their American foes, immediately following the commencement of hostilities. A few plain facts which he would submit to the House might help the right hon. gentleman to understand the naval operations of Britain on the American coast more distinctly, and show him that his statement had partly proceeded from imperfect information. As soon as the discussions in America began to take a serious turn, which he conceived happened during the month of May last, the British government sent orders to their naval officers, not couched in doubtful terms, but in the plain good old English style, that as the American government had assumed a menacing attitude, they should put in force their standing orders to sink, burn, and destroy their enemy's ships. These orders had been issued on the 9th of May last. They had never been revoked, but had been in force, were in force, and were acted upon as they had been given, without any drag-chain upon them. On the very day that the Americans had declared war against Great Britain, commodore Rodgers put to sea, although it was supposed he had not received any instructions from his government to that effect. In a few days a British squadron was sent in pursuit of commodore Rodgers and his fleet, at an earlier time than could have been expected. The British admiral wisely thought that some blow was aimed at the commerce of this country; he therefore went to protect the West India fleet. It proved that he was right in his supposition, for while protecting the West India fleet, he fell in with commodore Rodgers, gave him chace, and immediately bore down to give him battle, and had he thought proper to stand an engagement, the war would have commenced with one of those brilliant achievements which the right hon. gentleman had so strongly recommended; but very unluckily he made his escape. The Guerriere had gone to sea in company with the Africa, 74, from which ship she was separated in a gale of wind; immediately after which she fell in with the American frigate of superior size, by whom she was most unfortunately taken.—When the hon. gentleman (Mr. Whitbread) had said, that admiral Warren had remained in Halifax, he was right, for although all the
 646 647 648 649
 Mr. Whitbread  expressed himself obliged to the hon. gentleman who had just sat down for the statement he had made, as it was in his power to give an account of matters which no one else could have done. At the same time he observed that there were several parts of the hon. member's speech, which it was difficult to reconcile with each other, or with statements formerlymade in that House. It was a matter of much consolation to him to have heard from the hon. gentleman, that neither Mr. Monroe nor Mr. Madison, seemed to him to be actuated solely by a spirit of hostility towards this country. From this there was some reason to hope, that a conciliatory disposition on the part of the ministers of this country, might yet lead to an adjustment of the existing differences between the countries without any further loss of time. For himself, although he differed from those Who considered the American government as being wholly to blame in producing the war that now unhappily existed between the two countries, he could not but rejoice in that part of the hon. member's speech
 628 629 630 631 632 acme 633
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he certainly should not oppose the Bill in that stage of it, hut that if it should prove to be a similar one to that brought in last session, he should feel himself compelled to oppose it in every part of its progress.—Leave was then given to bring in the Bill.
 Mr. Henry Martin  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill relative to the office of the Registrar of the Admiralty. In the brief observations which he intended to make, it would be sufficient to observe, that a great part of the proceeds arose from the money of suitors in the Admiralty Court. It was not the intention of the Bill to interfere with the legitimate fees of the office. It appeared from documents on their table, that the average annual sum which was solely employed for the benefit of the noble lord (Arden) who now held the situation of Registrar, was 200,000 l 656
 Lord Castlereagh  moved the order of the day, for taking into farther consideration the report on the Vice-Chancellor's Bill.
 Sir C. Burrell  remarked, that the precedency of the Vice-Chancellor was not proportioned to his salary, as it was proposed that he should rank after the Master of the Rolls, though his salary was superior to that of this last officer.
 Mr. Abercromby  suggested that, as it was not intended that the Vice-Chancellor should have a seat in the House of Commons, the safest course to pursue, would be to insert a clause in the Bill to that purpose
 682
 Mr. Rose  said, that there could be no objection to what the hon. and learned member proposed, had not the act of Anne been amply sufficient. The words were, that no one holding any newly created office of emolument, should be held qualified to sit in the House of Commons.
 Mr. Canning  professed not to have discovered any of those amendments in the Bill that would induce him now to vote for it, having voted against it on the second reading. It appeared to him to have come out of the Committee with all the objections that it had at first presented; but he should reserve himself for an opportunity of farther discussing the principle of the Bill on the third reading. With respect to bankruptcies, he conceived what had been suggested by an hon. and learned gentleman to be an improvement, and if any such amendment was moved on the third reading, he should give it his support. He should not move, however, such an amendment himself, but should it not be moved, he thought the Bill ought to be rejected. As the evil complained of was of a temporary nature, the remedy also, he contended, ought to be temporary, and the Bill, therefore, limited to a certain duration.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the mode of determining what causes were to be heard by the Vice-Chancellor would be by orders issued, from time to time, by the Chancellor, Keeper, or the commissioners holding the great seal. As to the indecency which was said to be apprehended from the subordinate condition in which the Vice-Chancellor would be placed with respect to the Chancellor, when it was said he might be interrupted by the Chancellor's bell, what was the case at present when a judge and two Masters in Chancery sat for the Lord Chancellor? They proceeded to hear such causes as might be dispatched within the time during which it was probable they would sit. This would be the case with the Vice-Chancellor. The Chancellor would discover what was the most convenient manner of conducting the business, and signify it to the Vice-Chancellor; and from the harmonious manner in which business was conducted in Chancery, no evil was to be apprehended from this mode of proceeding. He had never pledged himself to propose any amendments in the Committee, but he had said that any objections against the Bill might be remedied there. As something must be done to remedy the existing evil, what had been proposed instead of this Bill? To take a judge, of whose integrity and talents enough could not be said in praise, and load him with all this additional business; and this, though that honourable person had stated to his constituents that the pressure of his ordinary business was such as to compel him to abandon the pleasing duties of representing his native county in that House. A certain number of juridical days were marked out with mathematical accuracy, and were to be imposed on the Master of the Rolls, although that officer had been begged, by the gentlemen of the profession attending his court, to desist from even his ordinary sittings, lest his valuable life might be endangered. The question was not of willingness or unwillingness, but of personal capacity to perform such additional duty. But it was said the duties would not be imposed without additional emolument. Was it a compliment to this judge who had declined the most grateful duties,
 684
 Lord Castlereagh  thought, that nothing in his hon. and learned friend's speech justified the attack which the hon. gentleman had made on him. The characteristic of what his hon. and learned friend had said on a former night, and what he had that night repeated, was, that it had all the weight of argument, and was stated in a perfectly inoffensive manner. His hon. and learned friend could not be accused of arrogance, seeing that he had been challenged as a lawyer to come forward, and had done so accordingly—In
 686 centre-projects 687
 Mr. Wetherall  could not conceive how such a power as that alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman could be understood to exist in the Chancellor. The fair construction of this Bill certainly was, that the Chancellor could not transfer causes set down for the Rolls Court. As to the expedient suggested of detaching the bankrupt business, that branch he conceived to be now so closely and constitutionally connected with the original jurisdiction of the Court, that it could not be separated without great hazard and inconvenience. If a new judge were created for the dispatch of bankruptcy business, it would be creating a jurisdiction without appeal, which appeared to him a greater innovation than the object of the present Bill. It was not quite reasonable to expect such uniform and unfailing rectitude in any judge as totally to supersede the necessity of appeal. The most active and vigilant might sometimes slumber in a long
 689 ——Aliquando bonus dormitat Homerus:
Verum opere in longo fas est obrepere somnum.
 Mr. Ponsonby,  in answer to the alleged anomaly in English law of creating a judge without appeal, observed, that in matters of bankruptcy there was at present no appeal. The hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, seemed terrified at the consequences which would result from the appointment of a judge for the separate causes of bankruptcy. In the hon. and learned gentleman's opinion this would produce a narrowness of view in the person who should be appointed to this separate bench, which would render him unfit for the office. It was the first time he had ever heard that the division of labour made the labourer more inexpert. But would not the advisers of the crown advise the appointment of the fittest person for the office? It had been said, that the separation of the bankruptcy causes would not afford a sufficient relief to the Lord Chancellor. Did not the bankruptcy causes constitute one-fourth of the Chancery business? The Chancellor who should be left with three-fourths of the present business, and should be unable to execute it, was very unfit to hold that situation. An hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Stephen), had been at once the accuser and exculpator of the Master of the Rolls. He knew not why that hon. and learned gentleman had thought fit to become the accuser of that exalted character, or whether it was by his permission that he had become his defender. Did the hon. and learned gentleman think that it was a fortunate defence for the Master of the Rolls, that he had withdrawn himself from the decision of causes at the Cockpit, because an opponent of his, at a county election, had received some support from ministers? He thought the hon. and learned gentleman ought to consider some time before he appeared again in the character of a defender. He could see no objection to the separation of bankruptcy causes from the great seal. The taking away part of the Chancellor's emoluments was no objection, for the Chancellor ought to be liberally paid, and consequently compensated for
 690
 The Solicitor General  explained, that he had only mentioned that the hon. gentleman was chairman of the committee to his
 Mr. B. Bathurst  said, if an anomaly were to be allowed to exist, as in the case of bankruptcy causes, it ought not to exist in a subordinate officer, but in a person clothed with the highest dignity.
 Mr. Stephen  should not have risen, but for the notice which had been taken of an allusion made by him on a former night, to the cause of the Master of the Rolls withdrawing himself from the Cockpit. He conceived that no imputation was implied in the statement he had made, which, however, was founded only on common rumour. His attendance there was no part of his official duty, it was perfectly gratuitous, and he was at liberty to continue or discontinue it as he saw proper. The time that he had withdrawn himself from the Cockpit, was, when a certain administration was endeavouring to supplant him in the county which he had long represented. At such a time, it would not be wondered at, if he did not continue to give his voluntary attendance at a place, where it was not his particular duty to attend.
 Mr. Croker  entirely participated in the satisfaction expressed by the hon. gent.
 Mr. Croker  rose to correct a mistake, into which he had fallen in the course of the debate on Thursday night. He was perfectly right in all the facts he had stated, relative to the conduct of the American consular agent who issued certificates; but Mr. Lyman was not the person (as he had then asserted) who was guilty of the practice to which he referred. The name, however, was very similar, but he should decline mentioning it. In speaking also of the naval officer who had contributed by his skill and gallantry, to the preservation of our homeward-bound West India fleet, he should have stated, that it was captain Broke, of the Shannon frigate.
 Mr. Lockhart,  referring to a clause in the Bill where it was stated that the Vice-Chancellor should determine all causes as the Lord Chancellor or Lord Keeper should direct, thought it of the greatest importance that this part of the Bill should be more defined or better understood. It was necessary to know how this authority was to be given, as much of the landed property of the kingdom, might be held
 683
 Mr. Taylor  explained. He had not laid any stress on his having been chairman of the committee, but had merely mentioned it incidentally.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  felt it his duty, as chairman of the committee that had been appointed to enquire into the emoluments of the office of Lord Chancellor, to state that these emoluments had been much exaggerated by general and vulgar report. Upon an average, for some years past, they had not been more than 18, 19, or 20,000 l l l l l l 681 l
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  disclaimed having any intention of moving the amendment alluded to, but thought it would be desirable, if there was any disposition on the part of the framers of the Bill to meet it.
 Mr. R. Gordon,  on the order of the day being moved for the farther consideration of the Report of this Bill, observed, that the Bill had now received the finishing hand of the noble lord; but he could not see that any improvement, or any material alteration, had been made. He had observed that the noble lord had taken great pains in the construction of the Bill to avoid the words Assistant Judge, though this, in fact, was the very thing intended. One of the Amendments, he observed, was resorting to the suitors' fund for the payment of half of the new salary. Now, were there no other objection to the Bill, he should consider this alone as a very material one. The suitors' fund was private property, and, as such, what right, he asked, had they so to dispose of it? He knew that various sums had been taken from it before, but that was no justification of the practice. They were not to follow a multitude to do evil. By the Chancellor's paying the one half of the salary, the principle had been given up that he ought to pay the whole. He therefore contended for this principle to its full extent. The hon. member then adverted to the last clause of the amended Bill, providing for the Lord Chancellor's taking all the fees. On the subject of fees he had his doubts respecting their propriety, and was glad to understand that it was the intention of an hon. member to move, that the Lord Chancellor should receive no fees, but have a fixed salary. On the whole, it was his opinion that the Bill ought to be recommitted.
 Mr. Whitbread  felt himself extremely happy at the self correction of the hon. gentleman, and he was sure that it would prove a great source of satisfaction to the friends of the late general Lyman, than whom a more correct or honourable man did not exist.
 Mr. Whitbread  did not know any thing more of the transaction than what he had learned from the information of the hon. and learned member, who had stated that the Master of the Rolls had been ill-treated by the ministry of 1806. Because he had been opposed in a county election, he had, it seemed, retired from the Cockpit out of political pique and resentment. He did not attach much credit to the rumour, but he thought that, if true, it implied a censure on the conduct of the Master of the Rolls.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that during his whole parliamentary life he had never witnessed such an instance of rapid growth as they had seen that night. The infant of that day week had become a giant. The hon. and learned Solicitor General, who but a week ago was so diffident that he could scarcely venture to obtrude himself on the House; who professed himself to have no practical knowledge of the Court of Chancery, had, after having pledged his reputation that the expedient before them would be successful, came forward that night, and after speaking with full confidence to a point of practice in the Court of Chancery, proceeded to a speech full of sarcastic allusions. The allusion to the hon. and learned chairman of the committee, they must understand as being devoid of sarcasm, notwithstanding the tone and manner in which they were delivered. He had as much respect as any one for the Master of the Rolls, but notwithstanding all the lamentation which they had heard for the absence of that learned judge, which lamentation, no doubt, would be renewed to the full, in the case of any one appointed to the office of Vice-Chancellor, he (Mr. W.) thought it expedient, that not only the
 685
 Sir F. Flood  was glad to find that the country, already so much burdened, was not to be charged with an additional salary. The Chancellor, it seemed, was to pay the one half of the salary, which was a proof that he was satisfied that he could not do all the duties. The Bill, in its first stage, he thought rather a slovenly performance, and unlike the usual productions of the noble lord. He approved of the amendments that had been introduced, and therefore, although he had formerly voted against the Bill, was now ready to give it his assent and support. It was evident there was a great increase of business in the Court of Chancery, and neither the Lord Chancellor nor the Master of the Rolls would be expected to do miracles. An immediate remedy was necessary, and any delay would be doing injustice to the public.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  wished to understand the Bill, which he was unable to do from the Bill itself, without the assistance of those who framed it. He wished to be informed, whether it was intended to transfer causes set down for the Master of the Rolls to the Vice-Chancellor; if the causes were so transferred, it would create considerable dissatisfaction, and a multiplication of business by constant appeals; if it were not intended so to transfer them, all the causes would be set down before the Master of the Rolls. He wondered how gentlemen who had professed on a former night to be satisfied, not with what the Bill was, but with what it might be, should express their approbation of the Amendments. It was precisely the same that it was. The only alteration was in the omission of the words, "under certain restrictions and regulations," but the Vice-Chancellor was still to proceed to decide only such causes as the Chancellor should from
 688
 Mr. Baring  said, that the meeting in pursuance of the resolutions of which this Petition had been drawn up, was convened in the most obscure manner possible. As half a dozen people at the Crown and Anchor would come forward with, "We the people of England;"—so this Petition, the signatures to which had been obtained by placarding the walls of taverns, and other disgraceful methods, was brought forward, as the Petition of the cities of London and Westminster. In so large a city a Petition on any subject would by such means get a long string of names; but it was much to the honour of the city of London, that it had not joined, by any public act, in the senseless cry which had been raised, he was sorry to say, principally by the clergy.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that as to Westminster,
 694
 Mr. C. W. Wynn  said, in rising to oppose the motion, it was far from his wish to object to any compliment which the House might think proper to pay to the corporation of Dublin, or to the chief magistrate of that city; but, in his opinion, they ought to be guided, in such cases, by precedent, and he knew of none that could bear out the present motion. If this claim were admitted, he thought it would be likely to occasion great inconvenience to future chief magistrates; as it would no longer be a matter of option to transmit a petition from Dublin, by a member of that House, or by the lord mayor; the custom being recognised, they could not depart from one regular course; and, however unwilling, the chief magistrate would be obliged to act. It was undoubtedly the fact, that the House, through courtesy to the city of London, within which they almost held their meetings, permitted the sheriffs of that city, alone, to present petitions at their bar: but such a privilege was never permitted to any other part of the kingdom. In reference to the Petition from Dublin, the House were placed in exactly the same predicament as when petitions were sent from Edinburgh, in the custody of the Lord Provost. On those occasions, such a claim was never made. In the Petition on the case of capt. Porteous, in 1736, when the Lord Provost was in town, and under examination, he never demanded
 700
 Mr. Peel  hoped, under the particular circumstances of the case, that the House would be induced to accede to the right hon. gentleman's proposition—particularly as the chief magistrate of Dublin had actually arrived in town. The corporation of Dublin had no other motive in transmitting the Petition, in the manner they had done, than a desire to give it every weight in their power; and he did think the House would be acting too strictly, if they rejected the application. He wished particularly to observe, that he was by no means induced to accede to the motion, on account of the nature or sentiments of the Petition. He was sure, in deciding this question, it was quite unnecessary to know what they were—it was sufficient to state, that a request was made by the corporation of the
 701
 Lord Castlereagh  understood there was a particular resolution of the Irish House of Commons, "That no petition should be presented to the House, except by a member." Therefore, he contended, the course of proceeding there did not bear on the present question; for, had it not been for this particular resolution on the subject, the corporation of Dublin might have been treated with the same attention by the Irish parliament, as the corporation of London received from the united parliament.
 702
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed that no claim whatever had been made; the privilege was requested, on this particular occasion, as matter of favour, not of right; and he hoped it would not be forgotten, that, in the present instance, the Lord Mayor had actually come over. By receiving this Petition through the Lord Mayor, they did not bind themselves to receive others in the same manner.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, the House would readily believe that he was anxious to pay every possible compliment to the metropolis of Ireland; but what had fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer made it necessary for him to rise in opposition to the sentiments which he had expressed. The right hon. gentleman had observed, that, by receiving this Petition, the House did not bind themselves to receive all others in the same manner. Now, in his opinion, if the House agreed to permit the Petition to be presented by the Lord Mayor of Dublin, they would be bound to receive all others, from the same quarter, in a similar way; for what was there in that Petition which should induce the House to give it this particular distinction, and to withhold it from all others? If no indignity were offered to the corporation of Dublin by the Irish parliament, who would not receive their petitions through any other medium but that of a member of parliament, how could the Commons of the United Kingdom be supposed to act disrespectfully towards them, if they pursued the same course? He should be glad to know, whether the hon. gentlemen opposite, who seemed anxious that the motion should be carried, intended that the rule should be universal, or confined to this particular case? If it were intended to be restricted to this single case, he should oppose it; because, by granting the privilege particularly here, it would seem as if there were something in the nature of the Petition itself, that caused the distinction.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in what he had said, was not at all influenced by the nature of the Petition. He certainly wished it to be understood, that the permission was not to extend farther than the present case.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that, as the Lord Mayor was entrusted with another petition, it would probable obviate the objection if he presented that first. By this it would be seen that the nature of the Petition did not influence their decision.
 Mr. Ponsonby,  on this condition, expressed his willingness to vote for the motion.
 Mr. Wynn  expatiated on the mischiefs which might ensue in consequence of the chief magistrate of either Dublin or Edinburgh being obliged to leave his post, for the purpose of presenting petitions at the bar of that House.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that, by an act of parliament of his present Majesty, in case the Lord Mayor of Dublin was obliged to proceed to England on official business, he was empowered to elect a locum tenens from amongst those who had filled the office of chief magistrate.
 Lord Cochrane  moved, that the words "and the Lord Provost of Edinburgh," be inserted in the motion, after the words "Corporation of Dublin."
 Lord Castlereagh  reported to the House, that the Prince Regent having been attended with their Address of Friday last, was pleased to receive the same very graciously, and to give the following Answer:
 "Gentlemen, "I thank you for this loyal Address. 706 "It affords me the greatest satisfaction to find that my endeavours to preserve peace with the United States of America are justly appreciated; and that your determination to uphold the maritime rights of the country is in unison with my own. "Acting upon these principles, and aided by your support, I look forward with confidence to an honourable termination of the war in which I have been compelled most reluctantly to engage."
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose and spoke to the following effect: 707 708 709 710 711 712 713 714 715 ——"The other shape, "If shape it might be called which shape had none "Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb; "And on its head a kingly crown it wore, "While in its hand it shook a dreadful dart:" 716
 Lord Cochrane  seconded the motion.
 Lord Castlereagh  thought it would be time enough to dispose of such a proposition, when application to such effect was made by the corporation of that city.
 Mr. Wynn  agreed with an hon. gentleman, that if a message should come down from the crown, for the purpose of settling the question of Regency in future, it would be the most regular and graceful way for parliament to proceed upon the subject. At the same time, it must be recollected, that parliament had at different times proceeded to alter the succession of the crown, and sometimes without any message. Those great men who passed the celebrated Exclusion Bill, did not wait for a message from the crown upon the subject. It was most clearly within the power of parliament, to originate the question themselves. It was said, that there was no great probability of the contingency
 720
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that although the question might have come better from the ministers of the crown, yet as the hon. baronet had thought proper to bring it forward to the consideration of the House, he wished, before he gave his vote in favour of it, to explain, in a very few words, the reason of his so doing. He allowed that such measures as the one now proposed, should generally proceed from the government; but there might be cases, where, if parliament was moved to the consideration of them, it was fully competent to them to determine them, even although government might be unwilling to invite their attention to the subject. As to the contingency itself, it did not appear to him so improbable as it seemed to some gentlemen; for all knew, that although his Majesty was afflicted with a severe mental malady, which made him incapable of exercising the functions of royalty, yet that he enjoyed as sound health as any man of his age, and that there was a great probability of his living for many years. If that was the case, there only stood one life between us and all the difficulties which had been experienced on two former occasions. Supposing that event to take place, he thought that it would be too much for any member to expect, that his individual arguments would be able to induce parliament to act differently from the mode they had adopted on the two former occasions. He supposed, that in such a case, parliament would act according to the precedents then laid down. The proposition of the hon. baronet, which was now under their consideration, was not for determining the quantity of power to be given to a future Regent, nor for declaring who should be that Regent: it was merely a motion for
 721
 Lord Castlereagh  trusted that he should be able to shew, that there was not a sufficient necessity to induce the prudence of the House to agree to the motion before them. He allowed that the hon. baronet had brought the subject forward with great candour and fairness. The hon. baronet, however, who had been induced by his constitutional view of the subject to bring forward the present motion, appeared to him to be more anxious to destroy the authority of the parliamentary proceedings in the two former instances, than to provide for the contingency he had stated. He appeared to think it of the greatest importance, to rebut and subvert all the principles which the House had laid down upon that subject; and to get rid of what he considered a pernicious precedent. For his part, he had a view of the subject directly opposite. He thought that it was a benefit, and a blessing to the country, that the great constitutional difficulties which attended this subject had been removed, and the point settled on the fullest discussion, which was afterwards revised upon the late occasion; and in which the greatest legal and constitutional learning had been displayed. He considered that those precedents would be a great protection to the country, hereafter, from similar difficulties. He allowed that parliament had a right to enter into such considerations without a message from the crown; but it was always for their prudence to consider, whether they should expose themselves to a conflict with the crown upon the point? In any thing respecting money, all conflict with the crown was prevented by the necessity of the crown proposing or previously consenting to the grant. In common
 722
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose to reply, amid a loud call for the question. He was glad to find, notwithstanding the opposition his motion had experienced, that it was met from the other side by a direct negative, a mode certainly more manly than by the previous question. One right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst) seemed desirous to leave things to themselves; and whilst he avoided the consideration of the question in a constitutional way, he argued that sufficient unto the day was the evil thereof. The noble lord, on the other hand, justified his objections by the necessity of the case, which called for the interposition and discretion of parliament. If, indeed, the noble lord thought the great seal sufficient to fill up the void caused in the exercise of the kingly power,—if he thought the majorities of the two Houses sufficient to supply the want of the monarch's rights and prerogative,—then he would readily admit that the noble lord's objections were just. For his own part, he wished to see the crown surrounded and strengthened with all legitimate properties and authority; and it was that wish, and that wish only, as connected in its necessary results with the benefit and happiness of the subject, that influenced him to submit to the House the present motion. He had tried
 725
 The Speaker  said, he could not at present charge his recollection with any standing order on the subject. With respect to the sheriffs of the city of London being permitted to present the petitions of the corporation, it was always put to the question; and, in 1690,* it was the pleasure of the House not to receive them. The mode of acting was wholly in their own power.
 The Speaker  observed, that the letter of the Lord Mayor mentioned but one Petition; if the House chose to follow the suggestion of the hon. gentleman, the word in the motion should be "Petitions."
 The Speaker  begged to call to the recollection of the House, that they never could recognise a privilege in any body, to knock at their doors and demand them to be opened—that was a right which belonged only to the crown. On reflection the hon. member would perceive that he had gone too far in claiming that as a right which was solely a courtesy.
 The Speaker  acquainted the House, that he had received a Letter from the right hon. the Lord Mayor of Dublin, the contents of which he communicated to the House; and the said Letter was thereupon, by direction of the House, read by the Speaker, and is as follows:
 "Dover Street, 23 February, 1813. "Sir; The corporation of the city of Dublin, in common council assembled, having prepared Petitions to be presented to Parliament on the subject of the Claims about to be preferred on behalf of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, I beg leave to state, that I have been deputed, as lord mayor of the city of Dublin, to deliver their Petitions at the bar of both Houses of Parliament; and I have now the honour to solicit, through you, Sir, that the honourable the House of Commons may be pleased to indulge the corporation of the city of Dublin by permitting me, as chief magistrate of that city, to deliver at their bar the Petition addressed to their honourable House, an indulgence which it is humbly hoped that the House of Commons will be pleased to concede to the citizens of Dublin, in analogy to the usage so long established of receiving Petitions at their bar from the corporation of the city of London, and which, if granted by that honourable House, will not only demand the gratitude of the petitioners, the second corporation of the empire, and yielding to none in loyalty and attachment for the laws, government, and constitution of these kingdoms, but will also be received as a grateful and flattering condescension by the inhabitants at large
 699 ABM. BRADLEY KING, Lord Mayor of the City of Dublin." "To the right hon. Charles Abbot, Speaker of the House of Commons, &c."
 Lord A. Hamilton  could not conceive how those who had defended the Regency restrictions on the ground of necessity, could possibly oppose the present motion, the object of which was, to prevent the recurrence of such necessity; a necessity, of which he could not sufficiently deprecate the recurrence, when he called to mind, that at one period during the indisposition of his Majesty, ministers had actually exercised the functions of the executive in all their plenitude: for it ought never to be forgotten, that in 1804 circumstances did arise which made it more than suspicious, that publicity was not given to the real circumstances of his Majesty's indisposition, and that ministers did then contrive some way or other to exercise the royal authority, at a time when his Majesty's state of health rendered him quite incompetent to the discharge of the functions of royalty.
 Lord A. Hamilton  seconded this amendment
 Mr. Bathurst  highly approved of the open and candid manner in which the hon. baronet had submitted his motion to the House. The hon. baronet had rested it on a few plain propositions, and had very properly kept out of view every thing not connected with his subject. It would not, therefore, be necessary for him to take up much of the time of the House, in stating the reasons why it appeared to him that the suggestions of the hon. baronet ought not to be adopted. The hon. baronet had, in his opinion, stated the difficulties to which they had been formerly reduced in much too strong colours. It appeared to him, that the discussion of the subject was altogether unnecessary, and that therefore it ought to be avoided. It would be impossible to agitate the question, without raising again all the passions which the question had formerly called into action. This was not a desirable object, and the matter ought to be allowed to rest till the necessity of the case should call for it. When that necessity should arise, the House would again, upon a review of all the circumstances, exercise a sound discretion. No general fixed provision had ever been made against the event of such a malady as that by which his present Majesty was visited: nor had any one been pointed out as the person with whom the royal authority should rest in such a case. These were events which must be dealt with according to the peculiar circumstances of each case, and the
 717 718
 Mr. Christopher Smith  said, that it was the custom at the place where the Petition lay for signatures, to ask any one who presented himself to sign, whether he had read the Petition, and if he answered in the negative, to recommend him to read it before he signed; and he did not doubt that the greater part of those who signed it had read it.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know, whether the parliament in England had any standing order similar to that stated to have existed in the Irish parliament. The present was an important question, as introducing a very serious precedent, and he would take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know, distinctly, whether the lord mayor of Dublin was admitted, in a similar way, to present petitions at the bar of the House of Commons of Ireland?
 Mr. Tierney  did not think that the arrival of the lord mayor of Dublin in this metropolis was any argument for agreeing with the motion. He thought the worthy magistrate had acted rather hastily, in proceeding on his journey before he had ascertained whether he was likely to succeed in the object of it. If, as had been staled, the parliament of Ireland were never in the habit of receiving petitions from the corporation of Dublin, through the medium of the lord mayor, they could not now claim such a right with any propriety.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that the Scotch were generally thought a prudent people, and the corporation of Edinburgh would know better than to send their Provost 400 miles to present a petition.
 Mr. Tierney  thought the Lord Mayor had better place the petition in the hands of a member of parliament, for presentation; and the House would decide on the question, so that no person should be mistaken hereafter.
 Mr. Tierney  thought some resolution ought to be proposed, to set the question at rest.
 Mr. Tierney  said, if the motion were agreed to, it would be an established principle that all Petitions from the corporation of Dublin, should be presented at the bar of the House by the Lord Mayor.
 Mr. Grattan  observed, that the addresses of the city of Dublin were presented to the Lord Lieutenant on the throne.
 *
 Mr. Grattan,  while he dissented from the opinions contained in the Petition which had been alluded to, conceived it to be his duty to support every proposition which had for its object the honour or interest of the city of Dublin, the capital of Ireland, and the second city of the empire. He should therefore move, "That the right hon. the lord mayor of the city of Dublin be admitted to present a petition of the lord mayor and corporation of the said city, at the bar of this House, according to the usages observed, in like cases, regarding the sheriffs of the city of London."
 Mr. Croker  said, the indulgence would be the same as that extended to the corporation of London; which was always put to the vote.
 Mr. Croker  was anxious that the Petition should be presented at the bar, by the Lord Mayor of Dublin; but he declared that that anxiety did not take any colour from the object of the Petition—it was not any affront to the corporation of Dublin,
 704
 Mr. Whitbread  declared, that he should be sorry to allow the question to go to a vote, without saying a few words upon it. On the former discussions relative to the Regency, a party in that House contended, that the proper mode of proceeding would be to address the heir apparent, to take the executive authority into his own hands. Parliament however decided, that the Regency should be constituted by Bill. Now, what was the proposition of the hon. baronet? Not that, in the event of the death of the Prince Regent, the Regency should devolve on the Princess Charlotte, but that a Bill should be introduced, to enable parliament to provide for an event, the contingency of which was
 723 724
 Mr. Brand  was desirous of stating his reasons for supporting the motion of the hon. baronet; but in doing so, he would carefully avoid the introduction of all extraneous matter. He would refrain from all allusion to those circumstances which at present formed the subject of general conversation, nor would he say any thing as to the party views which had been displayed, as was alleged, in the former discussions on this subject. The right hon. gentleman had assigned as his reasons for opposing the motion: first, that it did not come recommended by the crown: second, that there was no necessity for it; and that the House ought to wait the arrival of a case of necessity before they agitated the question. On these points he differed entirely from the right hon. gentleman; for he could not believe that it was essentially necessary to have the recommendation of the crown before the House entered upon the discussion of a question of such vital importance both to the crown and the community; and he could see but very little wisdom indeed in waiting the arrival of a case of necessity, and taking measures on the spur of the moment, instead of providing for the case upon previous mature deliberation. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that there was no necessity for bringing forward the question at that time. In his opinion, it was a point of great magnitude, and of commanding necessity. What must be the feelings of the person who was to exercise the royal authority?—what must be the feelings of every one who felt an anxiety that the crown should be supported in its dignity, in looking at the contests of rival parties tearing the powers of the office in pieces? These matters ought to be provided for by digested plans, in order to prevent the recurrence of such disgraceful scenes, as they had on former occasions witnessed. Such contentions of factions—such restrictions on the royal authority—such violations of the constitution—must inevitably have the tendency of holding out to the people that the powers of the crown were not necessary in their full extent for the government of the country. Something ought therefore, to be done, without delay, to put an end to the possibility of such occurrences. It was now more necessary than it might be in
 719
 Mr. W. Fitzgerald  said, the present was a request made on the part of the second city in the empire; it referred only to one particular occasion, and was not meant to extend to every question. He was of opinion, that the chief magistrate of Dublin having arrived, he ought not to be sent back without having performed the duty on which he was employed; and it was one thing to refuse a favour, and another, by the refusal, to offer an indignity. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn) was anxious to save future magistrates from inconvenience; but he did not seem to feel any regret for the inconvenience which the present lord mayor of Dublin would experience, by returning without having executed the purpose of his mission. It was requested as a matter of favour, and it Would be received only as such.
 Mr. W. Fitzgerald  said, he had made inquiries on the subject, from persons possessing more information than he did himself, and he had reason to believe that such a permission was not granted.
 Sir J. Shaw  said a few words on the same side.
 Sir James Shaw  said, as the right of the corporation of the city of London to present petitions to the House of Commons, by their sheriffs, seemed to be questioned, he had no hesitation in saying, it was their undoubted privilege, and there was no authority in that House to deny it.—(Cries of Chair! chair! Order! order!)
 Sir J. Shaw  admitted that his expressions were rather too strong. He only meant to state, that from a very ancient period, the corporation of London were permitted to present their petitions to parliament through the medium of their sheriffs.
 Mr. Robert Shaw  seconded the motion.
 Sir W. Curtis  said, he was sorry he could not speak to the fact.
 Sir W. Curtis  said, the meeting was publicly convened, and attended by persons of consequence, and that 90 out of 100 signed it in the room where the meeting had been held.
 Sir W. Curtis  said, he had to present a Petition from more than 60,000 inhabitants of this metropolis, against what was called Catholic Emancipation. The persons who had signed this Petition, could read and write too.
 Lord Milton  asked sir W. Curtis whether notice had been given, that Petitions lay for signatures at the Churches in London during divine service.
 Lord Milton  reprobated the practice of applying the Churches, and the time allowed for divine service, to purposes merely political.
 Lord Milton  said, he thought they ought not to confine their vote to the particular instance then before them, but should lay down some general rule. As the question was now about to be decided, there would be no uniformity in the practice, since the corporation of Dublin might either transmit their petitions by the Lord Mayor, or by members of the House of Commons as they pleased themselves.
 Lord Desart  said, he had in his hand a Petition from the Protestants of one of the most Catholic counties in Ireland, signed by men who were not merely theoretically conversant with the nature of the claims now preferred by the Catholics, but who, living among the Catholics, and thereby attaining a thorough understanding of their feelings and disposition, were thoroughly qualified to form a judgment as to the expediency or inexpediency of complying with their demands. At the meeting from which this Petition had emanated, colonel Gore was in the chair, a gentleman who had formerly expressed his inclination to promote the interest of the Catholics; but whose change of opinion, not showing any undue versatility in him, which it certainly did not, should impress the advocates of the Catholics with a strong sense of the necessity of moderation in their endeavours to serve them.
 Lord Desart  was glad that the right hon. baronet did not happen to be present at the meeting, the proceedings of which he had described to the House; because, that being the case, he could without any breach of politeness assure him, that nothing of what he had stated to have happened there, had happened. Most of the persons at that meeting had signed the Petition before they left the room. [Here sir J. Newport exclaimed, "No!" and his lordship insisted such was the fact; they had signed it in his presence.] The right hon. baronet had imposed on him a very disagreeable task, that of revealing what had passed at the meeting, for many of those who concurred in a part of the proceedings, had expressed their sorrow for the part they had taken, and wished much that nothing should transpire upon the subject. First then, he had to state, that the high sheriff of the county had signed the Petition before he left the room, though he had refused in his official capacity to summon a county meeting, and had, moreover, assured him that he entirely approved the sentiments which had dictated it, though prevented by his official duties from concurring in his public capacity to promote the object of the meeting. And here, perhaps, it would not be irrelevant to animadvert on the exultation with which the right hon. baronet, surrounded as he was by the friends of liberty and toleration and emancipation, had stated the refusal of that place to the Protestants, to assemble in and embody their opinions in a Petition to the legislature, from which the Catholics had been frequently permitted to issue their resolutions and menaces. But to
 732
 Mr. Peel  defended the Irish government from any knowledge of the publication. He then adverted shortly to the libel for which Mr. Fitzpatrick was recently found guilty, and observed, that while he wished to avoid exciting any of those feelings of irritation which the language they had just heard was evidently calculated to produce, he could not help thinking it singular, that the government of Ireland should be expected as soon to file an information against the publisher of a work, which was described as being too clumsy to impose upon any person, as against the printer of a direct and virulent libel against the lord lieutenant of Ireland.
 The Hon. Cochrane Johnstone  rose and said, that he intended to submit a motion to the House on Monday next, relative to the proceedings ordered by his Majesty to be instituted on the subject of her royal highness the Princess of Wales. The hon. member was about to offer some remarks upon the importance of this matter, which, he said, affected even the succession to the throne itself, when the Speaker interrupted him by stating, that in giving a notice, it was not usual to enter into any discussion which could possibly create a debate. The hon. member then concluded by observing, that he had thought it his duty, and had accordingly done so, to transmit a copy of the proposition he intended to move, to ministers, that they might be fully possessed of the line he meant to pursue.
 The Speaker  then required to know, if the hon. gentleman had any reason to doubt the originality of the signatures affixed to the Petition? And, having received an answer in the negative,
 Mr. Butterworth  observed, that some of the persons who were present at the meeting did oppose the Petition; but they did not wish to come to a vote on it.
 Mr. Butterworth  would not have made any observation on the present occasion, had not the hon. gentleman stated, that the unanimous opinion of the Dissenting Ministers was in favour of presenting this Petition. During the last session of parliament,
 737
 General Mathew  admitted that he had gone too far in saying the Petition was smuggled; but stated, that he had, nevertheless, no doubt that the proceedings connected with it were altogether clandestine. He and his colleague, whom he did not now see in his place, had made the tour of the county, at the time the business? was in agitation; but he was not able, to
 729
 General Mathew  denied that the Petition presented by the hon. gentleman could with propriety be termed a petition from the Protestant freeholders of the county of Tipperary, there not having been any meeting convened for the purpose of taking the sense of the Protestant freeholders in a regular manner; that was, by the sheriff or two or more magistrates, according to established custom. He objected to the Petition on the same grounds as those on which the Stafford Petition had been so properly objected to from the Chair, namely, that it had not been read, or  bona fide
 Colonel Bagwell  said, that he certainly was not in the county at the time the Petition was signed, whereas the hon. general was, and therefore, had a better opportunity than he had of knowing in what manner the proceedings with respect to the Petition had been conducted; but while he gave the hon. general the advantage over him, which his confession of ignorance would afford, he could never conceive that those proceedings were such as would justify the harsh language which had been applied to them. If the gallant general would but take the trouble of inspecting the list of names attached to the
 728
 Colonel Bagwell  said, that in doing so, he had to state, that although it was not so worded as to preclude any indulgences being granted to the Catholics, yet it prayed, in case of any concessions being granted, guards would be imposed effectually to protect the Protestant establishment.
 Colonel Bagwell  would not allege that
 730
 Mr. W. Fitzgerald  lamented to think that they were coming to the momentous discussion on the claims of the Roman Catholics, with so much heat and violence of temper. As a friend to the Catholics, he must say, that those persons connected with the government, who wished well to their cause, were almost compelled to
 734
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that this Petition would have been signed by a greater number of persons, but printed extracts,
 733
 Mr. W. Smith  presented a Petition from the there undersigned Protestant dissenting ministers of the three denominations residing in and about the
 735
 Mr. W. Smith  also presented a Petition from the there undersigned Protestant Dissenters, of the three denominations residing in and near the cities of London and Westminster: setting forth, 736
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that of the private transactions of the body, he did not profess to know much; but he would again aver, that the Petition was brought to him yesterday, by a deputation from the body of whom he spoke; that the meeting was called with all due, sufficient and formal notice; and that all who attended it signed the Petition. Even the names of some of those who disagreed (not from any dislike to the sentiments of the Petition, but from other circumstances) last year, were to be found amongst the signatures to the Petition which he now presented, and to which not the slightest opposition was manifested.
 Sir H. Parnell  repeated the observations he had made on a former evening, as to the correctness of the statements contained in the two first parts of The Statement. He believed the secretary for Ireland was ignorant of the publication of the Third Part; but when it appeared in a paper, under the protection of the Irish government, he did not think it could have passed unnoticed by them.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the libellous and malicious publication alluded to was not confined to Chichester, but had been spread throughout Yorkshire and Lancashire; when such shameful artifices were resorted to, it sufficiently marked the character of the cause which demanded such support. He complained, that such a gross and villainous libel on a whole people, was not taken notice of by the government of that country whence it proceeded. It notoriously issued from a press favoured by that government, It proceeded from the office of The Dublin Journal, which, with its worthy compeer, The Patriot, was supported by the public money. Why, he asked, had not the government exerted those powers, which, on other occasions, they were ready enough to make use of, in punishing the author of this atrocious work? Why had not they directed the Attorney General to file an information on the subject? But their thunders were reserved for other objects. They could prosecute the printer of the two first parts of The Statement, but they overlooked the false and malicious publication, purporting to be The Third Part, although it tended to fill the country with dissention and bloodshed.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he had no objection to the Petition being received, but it professed to be what it was not—a Petition from the Protestants of the county of Kilkenny. He wished to know, if the people who thought in the same manner with the noble lord, at the meeting in question, formed the majority of that meeting, why they allowed an adjournment of it? [Here the hon. baronet was interrupted by loud cries of Spoke, spoke! and after some-little resistance, was obliged to resume his seat.]
 Sir J. Newport  denied that the Petition could be considered as what it purported to be—a Petition from the Protestant inhabitants of Kilkenny. He would mention a fact, which would at once show the House the impropriety of considering it as such. At the place where the meeting was first convened, so adverse a disposition was evinced by the freeholders to the object of it, that the noble lord and his associates were obliged to remove to a private house, and pass their resolutions. At the first meeting, that at which this disapprobation had been evinced, there were several noblemen present, and it was the brother of lord Ormond who moved that the meeting should be dissolved; on which the utmost confusion ensued, those
 731
 Mr. Robinson  moved the third reading of this Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  supported the Bill upon the grounds of its always having been the practice during war to prohibit the exportation of these articles.
 Mr. Baring  argued against the Bill, and stated that no answer whatever had been given to the facts and arguments of his hon. friend.
 Mr. Rose  supported the Bill: but upon the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Robinson agreed to put off the third reading for a week, in order that the subject might receive further consideration of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. Yorke  expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should think it necessary to enter into so many topics that might occasion debate, merely on presenting a petition. It was not his intention now to reply to the remarks just offered, but he rose merely to state, that before the House entered regularly upon, the discussion of the Catholic Claims he should move that another document, besides that produced at the request of the right hon. gentleman, should be read, and as often as the subject should be debated he should submit the same motion; it would be that the 9th, 10th, and 11th sections of the Act of the 1st of William and Mary, chap. 2, commonly called the Bill of Rights, be read.
 Mr. Plunkett  rose and said: 796 797 798 799 800 801 802 803 804 805 806 807 808 809 810 811 812 813 814 815 816 817 818 819 820
 The Right Hon. Charles Yorke : 821 onus probandi 822 823 Religio Laici Religio Cleri. 824 Re-ligio Cleri Relation de ce qui se passa a Rome, dl'Envuhissement de Plus VII." 825 * * "The Pope is chief master and common father of all the faithful, to whom God himself has given the spiritual power ever the whole world."—Ibid. p. 189. "Intelligant illi (Reges sc.) aliquando, imperio ipsos nostro ac throno Lege Christi subjici; imperium enim nos quoque gerimus, addimus etiam præstantius."—Ibid. vol. 3, p. 76. "† "The new French code declares that all forms of worship shall be free and publicly exercised. But we have rejected this article as contrary to the canons, to the councils, to the Catholic religion, to the tranquillity of life, and to the welfare of the state, on account of the fatal consequences which must result from it." ‡ "It is desired that the bishopricks may be reformed, and the bishops made independent of us. But this being contrary to the intention of our lawgiver and Lord Jesus Christ, who has ordained that there should exist, between St. Peter and his Apostle, an union, represented, at this day, by that which exists between the bishops and ourselves, &c. &c. accordingly, we protest that we are determined to preserve, for ourselves, the plenitude of our primacy, and the dependence of all bishops upon our see, as it is ordained by the pontifical bulls, the sacred canons, and the councils."— Relation "His Holiness orders it to be stated that the original duty of subjection and allegiance ( i. e. "The Pope is not simply bishop of Rome, but pastor of the universal church, in virtue of which he has the right of choosing his own ministers and co-operators in the apostolate, from among all the nations of the earth. And the clergy of Rome has always, from the earliest times, been composed, not of Romans alone, but 826 of individuals of every nation."— Relation ║ ' * stranger spiritual indifferentism divine the only one; and cannot form any alliance with any other; "That man can neither know, nor love that most holy religion,  out of the pale of which there is no hope of salvation enormous sacrilege "It follows hence, 1st, That it can never be allowed to take an  unlimited oath of fidelity duns un état "But with a view to the public tranquillity, the Pope allows an oath of  passive Relation "Can we possibly dispense ecclesiastics from the pontifical law of the sacred canons, which prohibits them from taking any oath of fidelity to the lay (or secular power) from whom they do not receive  any Temporality Cons, de Lateran IV. des Sermens.—Relation, Sec. 827 § "Bull of Indulgences to the Cardinals, archbishops, bishops, and vicars capitular of France and Italy. Feb. 1809. Vol. 2, p. 109. " Indulgences concerning Marriage. "Some of you have requested the faculty of dispensing, or giving permission for marriages to be contracted between parties, one of whom professes the Catholic faith, and the other heresy. But you know perfectly well that the true Catholic Church has ever strongly reprobated marriages with heretics; the Church has them in  horror spiritual Christians Infidels Catholics Heretics. "6. Indulgence to dispense, in the case of marriage, with the impediment resulting from the crime of adultery between the parties, with a promise of future marriage, provided nevertheless that neither of the parties had efficaciously contributed to the death of the deceased husband. "13 and 14. Indulgences to dispense the incestuous parties, in cases, where the right to demand the conjugal duty has been lost by occult and carnal commerce with a near relative, either in the first or second degree, on condition of penance, &c.  Eleignement d'occasion, &c. "To dispense, where marriage  has been mother of the wife has not been yet 828
 Mr. Yorke  also, among other passages, quoted the following words, from the Manual of Doctrine and Discipline, now used by the college of Maynooth (Tractat. de Ecclesiâ): "Itaque maximo in pretio illud Concilium (Tridentinum  scilicet concluded, but is ready to take place, and cannot be delayed for the special dispensation of the holy see without great scandal."— Relation §§ Bull of Excommunication against Buonaparté and his adherents, 1809. "Hinc autoritate omnipotentis Dei et S. Sanctorum Apostolorum Petri et Pauli ac  Nostr "Declaramus eos omnes, &c. excom-municationem majorem aliasque censuras ac pænas ecclesiasticas à sacris canonibus et apostolicis constitutionibus et genera-lium conciliorum, Tridentini præsertim (Sess. 22. cap. de Reform.) decretis in-flictas, incurrisse; et eos excommunicamus et anathematizamus de novo.  Nonob-stantibus juramento Relation 829 ex Cathedrâ i. e. 830
 Mr. Yorke  then proceeded:—I have ever thought that there was less danger to be apprehended, to this Protestant community, from this foreign ecclesiastical influence, while the Pope was resident at Rome, and possessed of an open, independent, temporal sovereignty there, than as now, when the Pope, powerless and degraded as he is described to be (but still evidently possessing a most important spiritual influence), is completely in the hands of Buonaparté. In the former case it was possible that something might be accomplished (through negociation), for settling this question, between our Protestant state and the Roman Catholics of the British empire; but in the latter, it is apparent that nothing satisfactory can be within our reach. 831 832 833 * * Vide Appendix). † The Abbé de la Trappe. 834
 Mr. Protheroe  also opposed the Bill, stating that it was well known that iron mills for rolling iron had long been in use in America, and that those mills could be easily applied to the rolling of copper.
 Mr. Bankes .—Mr. Speaker, before I advert to the substance and material part of the speech of the right hon. mover, which forms by no means the largest portion of it, I am desirous of taking notice of some preliminary topics, with which he has introduced it. It is natural for the right hon. gentleman, connected as he is with Ireland, and strenuous as he has always been, in furthering the claims of the Roman Catholics, to observe, with dissatisfaction, and criticise with, perhaps, some little degree of severity, the sentiments of petitioners, so little in unison with his own. How such meetings have been convened, composed, or actuated, I possess neither the means, nor the inclination to inquire; but there is one main fact, which these petitions establish, most important for the consideration of the House; which is, that the wishes of the
 782 783 784 785 786 787 788 * * 789 790 791 792 793 794 795
 Mr. Grattan,  in explanation.—I never used the word 'foreign country' as applied to England. I said 'another country,' which I conceived to be a true description, as they are distinct countries, although united under one empire. As to the expression 'partizan-judges,' I never used it; that of 'partizan-sheriffs' I did use, but I did not use it by itself, nor intending to imply that Protestant sheriffs were necessarily prejudiced against the Catholics. The way I used the expression was, partizan-sheriffs, covenanted against the Catholic claims. I did not mean to cast an imputation on all Protestant sheriffs, but merely to state the hardship of Catholics being tried by juries, assembled by those, who might be fairly called partizan-sheriffs, covenanted against the Catholics. As for enacting any thing about the Protestant succession or the Protestant church, I never proposed any such thing. There is a great deal of difference between reciting it in the preamble of an act, and professing to enact it.
 Mr. Grattan  rose and said: 748 749 750 751 752 753 754 755 756 757 758 759 760 761 762 763
 Mr. Grattan  presented nine Petitions—of Roman Catholics of the county of Clare; of the county of Wexford; of the county and city of Water-ford; of the county of Sligo; of the county and city of Cork; of the county and city of Kilkenny; of King's county; of the county of Galway; and of the Roman Catholics of Ireland; whose names are there-undersigned, on behalf of themselves and of others professing the Roman Catholic religion; setting forth, 742
 Mr. John Henry Smyth .—Mr. Speaker, having concurred in the Resolution, which the House came to in the last session, of the last parliament, for going into a committee to consider the state of the laws affecting Roman Catholics, with a view to a satisfactory and conciliating adjustment, I should think myself guilty of a great inconsistency if I did not vote for the present motion. The petitions on the table of the House, against the Roman Catholic claims, are entitled to be treated with respect, and the petition from the University, which I have the honour to represent, is particularly entitled to this respect from me, from the personal knowledge I have of the character of many of its supporters: but, viewing the question as one, not of a local nor partial nature, but as affecting the common interests of the empire, I must exercise my independent judgment, whoever they may be from whom I differ. So far as the petition expressed an anxious desire for the security of our constitution in church and state, so far I cordially concur in it; but so far as it might be conceived to imply an opinion that the continuance of all the restrictions, at present in force against our Roman Catholic fellow subjects, is essential to that security, so far I must take the liberty to differ from it. It is clear, from a review of the history
 835 petitio principii 836 837
 Mr. Grenfell  rose to oppose it. He stated that the object of the Bill was to prevent the Americans, our enemies, from obtaining certain very important naval
 740 741
 Mr. William Courtenay  addressed the House as follows:—Mr. Speaker, upon an occasion of such expectation as this is, I am induced to offer myself to the notice of the House by one consideration alone. The vote which I shall give, in favour of the right hon. gentleman's motion, would have sufficiently recorded my opinion upon the subject now under discussion, but it would not have recorded the grounds upon which that opinion is founded. The House has listened, with admiration and delight, to the sentiments delivered by distinguished natives of Ireland, who, from their talents, their experience, and their intimate acquaintance with that part of the united kingdom, are entitled to the highest consideration. I could not help wishing to add the opinion of an English member of parliament, founded upon, and confirmed by, connection and acquaintance with Ireland. 838 839 840
 Mr. William Elliot  moved, "That the Resolution of the House of the 22d of June, in the last session of parliament, relative to the Laws affecting his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Great Britain and Ireland, might be read." The said Resolution being read.
 Mr. Elliot  said, he had taken the liberty of having this Resolution read, not only because it referred to a Petition which he
 743 744
 Mr. W. Smith  rose merely to observe, that the body of persons to whom he belonged, the Protestant Dissenters, had on former occasions availed themselves of the assistance of the right hon. gentleman (Yorke), and he was sorry to find that upon the Catholic question their opinions were completely at variance. The Catholics and this Dissenters differed it was true on points of faith, but in loyalty to the executive, and in attachment to the constitution, there was no distinction between them, and as a Protestant Dissenter he pledged himself never to stand up in that House exclusively to obtain the removal of the laws operating against the Dissenters, without coupling with it a motion for the restoration of their rights to the Roman Catholics, who were equally entitled to relief.
 Mr. William Edward Tomline  addressed the House, in a maiden speech, as follows: 764 765 766 767 768 769 770 771 772 773 774 775 776 777
 Sir Robert Heron  addressed the House, in a maiden speech, as follows: 778 779 780 781
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion that it would be highly improper to depart from the explicit resolution of an act of parliament.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, the complainant knowing the nature of the complaint which he proposed to bring, had the advantage in the readiness of making out his list over the person to whom he was opposing himself, therefore he conceived that reasonable time should be given to make out the lists of voters, especially those who lived so very remote as Pembrokeshire. Three days notice was a period infinitely too short to procure the necessary information, and the motion was, therefore, improper.
 Lord Kensington  urged, that justice would not be done, unless this exchange of lists took place. In the course of the election there had been a description of votes exhibited, than which nothing could be worse.
 Mr. Ponsonby  expressed his conviction, that the preferable way would be to adjourn the discussion till Monday, as some gentlemen might probably think it necessary that the whole of the evidence should be produced.
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that as the committee was now no more, the attendance of any of its members for the selection of the evidence was quite optional. In fairness the whole of the evidence should be laid before the House.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that it was the suggestion of the hon. chairman of the committee, that only part of the evidence should be produced. Indeed, if the whole of the minutes were laid on the table, the House would be trying anew the case as to the sitting members, which had already been decided by the committee. This would be a complete subversion of the Grenville Act.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that nothing of the description to which the hon. gentleman had alluded could operate as an inducement with his Majesty's ministers to neglect their duty; and if the hon. gentleman was desirous of bringing forward his motion on Monday, they were most ready to meet him. The hon. gentleman was best able to appreciate the importance of the subject, and would act as his own judgment dictated.
 Mr. Wynn  commented on the distressing situation in which these unfortunate individuals had been placed, and suggested the expediency of some permanent measure being adopted, to prevent the recurrence of similar circumstances in future. This he thought might be effected by making individuals who presented petitions against the returns of members, and who entered into recognizances duly to prosecute the allegations in such petitions, also to enter into a recognizance to provide for the maintenance of the witnesses summoned at their instance. At present, he thought it behoved the House to provide for the persons who had obeyed the Writ of the Speaker; and cited the case of some witnesses summoned on the Shaftesbury election committee, at a former period, as a precedent for such a proceeding. In conclusion, he moved—"That an humble Address should be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying, that he would be graciously pleased to give directions for the payment of a reasonable compensation to be individuals summoned to attend the Great Grimsby Election Committee, and assuring his Royal Highness that the House would make good the same."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the necessity of some such legislative provision as had been alluded to by the hon. gentleman, and commiserating, as he did, the situation of the unfortunate persons whose case had come under the consideration of the House, he should second the motion. The question was then put and carried.
 Mr. Yorke  said, that he had been misrepresented or misunderstood, by the hon. baronet. He had said, only, that in consequence of the protestation, a difference took place between the vicars apostolic and the Committee, and that the latter were obliged to submit. He had said, also, that three of the vicars apostolic had withdrawn their names from the protestation in consequence of the oath, the form of which had been introduced into it.
 Lord Castlereagh  remarked, that as it would be quite impossible to come to a conclusion on this important question that night, it appeared to him, that the only point of consideration was, whether the House would then adjourn, or at a later hour.—The motion for deferring the further consideration of the question to Monday, was then put and carried.—Adjourned at two o'clock on Saturday morning.
 The Speaker  suggested, that whatever the House might do, they must have the papers on the table of the House. If the whole were to be inspected, the whole must be on the table; if a part were only to be inspected, that part must be on the table.
 The Speaker  suggested there were two modes of meeting the apparent wishes of the House, to enable the committee to support their Report by evidence: either to get the entire of the minutes, and to deliver them immediately to the committee, to enable them to amend their report, or to refer the Report back to the committee, which should be constituted a committee for that purpose, with the ordinary powers of sending for persons, papers, and records.
 The Speaker  said, he must here beg to interrupt the noble lord, who must of course be aware, that such remarks ought to be abstained from, as tending to prejudice the minds of gentlemen, who might eventually sit in the Committee, on these very votes.
 The Speaker  begged to suggest, that for the sake of convenience and dispatch, only such part of the minutes as referred to this particular topic, should be selected from the mass of evidence; and that the selection might be made by the clerk of the committee, under the direction of the Chairman, and any others of its late members. If any new regulation were adopted by the House, with regard to the elective franchise of the borough, it would be better it should take place before a new writ was issued.
 The Speaker  observed, that it might perhaps be proper to put the House in possession of a decision of the last parliament, which seemed to bear strongly on the present question. It was a regulation of the House, that the sitting member and the petitioner should deliver in mutual lists of contested rotes, within a convenient time previous to trying the petition: and of that convenient time the House were to be judges. In the case of the Sussex election petition, decided in the last parliament, he recollected that the sitting member abandoned the defence of his seat, which was taken up by the freeholders in his interest. The trying of the petition was to take place on the 22nd of March, and on the 16th March an application was made by the petitioner, for an exchange of lists: but the House de-
 844
 Mr. A. Baring  considered it as a suspicious circumstance, that so much anxiety should be shewn that part of the evidence might not be produced. It would be a most irregular proceeding to permit the minutes of evidence to be garbled by a clerk; and even when the selection was made, it would give rise to a second discussion, whether the evidence had been garbled or not.
 Mr. Ayshford Wise  addressed the House in a maiden speech, as follows:— 875 876
 Mr. Bathurst  declared that his Majesty's ministers were engaged to dine with the Russia Company on Monday; but as far as he was concerned, he begged to state, that he had made no engagement of the sort. And he felt it his duty to decline the invitation upon the sole ground of business in that House requiring his attention.
 Mr. Edward Protheroe,  in a maiden speech, said: 871 872 Servus Servorum 873 * * 874
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  finally postponed his motion to Thursday.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  said, that understanding his Majesty's ministers were invited to participate in a turtle feast on Monday, as he was by no means desirous of disturbing their harmony, he begged leave to postpone his motion, which stood for that day, to Thursday.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  had no objection to bring forward the motion on Monday, but from feelings of courtesy, he was desirous of yielding to the accommodation of the noble lord and his friends.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  asked, whether the minutes had not been copied out fair, and signed by the Chairman; and said it was most important that the whole of the minutes should be laid on the table, as he understood that very improper interference had been exercised by an illustrious personage.
 Mr. Holme Sumner  conceived it would be extremely improper, to leave the business of selection to the clerk of the committee. He should propose, therefore, that the committee be reappointed, for the purpose of examining and deciding upon such parts of the evidence as they might think relevant to the matter on which they recommended the legislative interference of the House.
 Mr. Wrottesley  said, that the backwardness of gentlemen on the opposite side, to allow the production of the whole minutes, proved there was something that the House ought to be put in possession of: that the interference was probably so connected with the question, presented to their consideration, as not to be separated.
 Mr. James Daly :—Sir, I beg pardon of the House for offering myself to its notice, at a moment when it is naturally in expectation of the rising of some person, every way more entitled to its attention. I trust however that the extreme importance of the subject will plead my excuse. If I could be induced to believe, with the hon. gentleman on the floor, (Mr. Bankes) that there could be no other intercourse between the Protestant and Catholic, than between God and Belial, I would instantly espouse his side of the question and anxiously oppose the motion of my right hon. friend; but, convinced, by experience, that the contrary is the fact, and knowing that the utmost harmony and cordiality not only can, but actually does exist, between these two descriptions of his Majesty's subjects, I feel myself imperatively called on to support any measure which may procure, for the Catholics, those privileges, which, I must contend, are the natural rights of all subjects, born under the British constitution; rights which may indeed be withheld, but not except on very strong and urgent grounds. And what, Sir, is the motion of my right honourable friend? Does it pledge the House, at once, to say that there are no such strong and weighty objections? No, Sir; it merely asks this House to go into committee to consider whether there be any such objections or not. And he asks this in the name of above three millions of persons of whose courage and loyalty you have almost daily proofs. And what are the reasons urged against going into this committee? The danger apprehended from the Pope, and the disinclination of the Protestants. The danger of the Pope is attempted to be drawn from a series of pamphlets, to discuss which I shall not now trouble the House, but I remember that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Yorke), who seems so very much afraid of him, told us, in the course of his speech, that we were at this moment under sentence of excommunication by him,
 867
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  thought there was part of the evidence which there was no occasion to produce. He begged also to
 846
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  also acquainted the House, that the said Select Committee had come to the following Resolutions:
 
 1."That it appears to this Committee, that at the last election for the town and borough of Weymouth and Melcombe Regis, the right hon. Thomas Wallace, John Broadhurst and Henry Trail, esqrs. did by treating act in violation of the statute of the 7th of William 3, cap. 4, whereby they are incapacitated to serve in parliament upon such election. 2."That the right of voting in the said town and borough appears to be, among others, in persons seised of freeholds within the said borough; that gross abuses have of late been practised within the said borough by persons claiming and exercising a right to vote upon nominal reserved rents, arising out of freeholds split and divided into the most minute fractional parts, under wills either real or fictitious; and that it further appears to the Committee, that such evils can only be effectually remedied by the interposition of the legislature."
 Mr. Croker  said, when the hon. member should produce to the House any grounds for his assertion, it might be the subject of a legislative enactment; but the charge upon a member of the Upper House, for improper interference in the election of
 847
 Mr. John Round. —Sir, impelled by a strong sense of public duty, I would venture to solicit, for a few moments, that indulgence which I trust the House is not disinclined to shew, to one recently admitted within its walls. On a former occasion, when, in the discharge of the duty I owed my constituents, it had fallen to me to present, to the House, a petition from the borough I have the honour to represent, praying that the claims of the Roman Catholics to further political power might not be conceded, I shortly stated that my own sentiments, on this vitally important national question, were strictly in unison with those then expressed by my constituents. Though there is no member of this House more unfeignedly desirous than myself, to see the doors of parliament opened wide to the representations of the subject, and to enter into the serious and dispassionate investigation of grievances complained of by the people, I yet feel myself imperatively called upon to give my decided negative to the motion of the right hon. gentleman last night submitted to the House, recommended, as I admit it to be, by an animation, a fervor, and an eloquence, on the part of the right hon. mover, which, whilst it excited my admiration in art eminent degree, proportionably induced equal regret at the necessity I feel, of giving to it my strenuous opposition. In the view I take of this question, it becomes me manfully to avow my opinion that
 879
 Mr. Barham  contended, that it was not the fault of the petitioner, that delay had taken place: and, therefore he should not be precluded of availing himself from those standing regulations of the House, which were necessary to enable him to support his petition. He had no intention whatever of taking the hon. baronet by surprise; and, as a proof of it, his hon. friend the petitioner, would have no objection to postpone the consideration of the petition, that more time might be given for the mutual exchange of the lists in question.
 Mr. Barham  moved, That the Resolution of the House, of the 30th day of November last, "That in all cases of controverted elections for counties in England and Wales, the petitioners do by themselves or by their agents, within a convenient time to be appointed by the House, deliver to the sitting members or their agents, lists of the persons intended by the petitioners to be objected to, who voted for the sitting members; giving in the said lists, the several heads of objection, and distinguishing the same against the names of the voters excepted to; and that the sitting members do by themselves or by their agents, within the same time, deliver the like lists on their part to the petitioners or their agents," might be read; and the same being read: the hon. gentleman next moved, "That the hon. John Frederick Campbell, and the several freeholders, who have petitioned this House, complaining of the undue election and return of sir John Owen, bart. for the county of Pembroke, do, on or before Monday next, deliver to the said sir John Owen, or his agent or agents, lists of the persons intended by the petitioners to be objected to who voted for the said sir John Owen, giving in the said lists the several heads of objection, and distinguishing the same against the names of the voters excepted to; and that the said sir John
 843
 General Mathew  said, it appeared to him, after the very able speech of his hon. and learned countyman and friend (Mr. Plunket,) yesterday, that there was little for him or any one else to add on the subject. That speech, above all he had ever heard or read, afforded the most satisfactory and undeniable historical information on the subject, which probably had ever been given before in this country. He did not believe that ever a speech had been made in that House which so ably proved the right of the Catholics of Ireland to full emancipation. The hon. general, however, differed from his hon. and learned friend in some things. His hon. and learned friend was an advocate for Catholic emancipation, and in that he agreed with him; but he was an advocate for it, granting full and ample securities to the Protestant religion, and in that the hon. general said he differed from his hon. and learned friend. He would ask his hon. and learned friend if he had ever made out, or been able to make out from others, what those securities should be. He himself had often put the question in Ireland, and in England, and could never yet hear in what those securities were to consist. Who was to draw the bond? Who were to sign it? And on whom were the penalties arising from a failure in performance of the conditions of it to fall? He did not see by whom such securities
 854 855 856 857
 Mr. Richard Hart Davis,  (member for Bristol).—Sir; it is with extreme reluctance I rise to address the House at any time, but more especially on a subject which has called forth, so often, the ability of so many gentlemen, infinitely more able than myself to discuss this important
 860 861
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had made this a magnificent trifle, and begged leave to congratulate his Majesty's ministers on having obtained so able an advocate.
 Mr. Whitbread  remarked, that the hon. and learned gentleman had taken up this matter in much too grave a manner. It was well known that his Majesty's ministers were engaged to a dinner on Monday, and that being the fact, it was a proceeding of no novelty that the House should feel disposed to wave any claims on their attention, on such an occasion.
 Mr. Lushington  thought that anomaly easily accounted for, because the disputed votes were investigated by a commission, sent over to Ireland for the express purpose.
 Mr. William Fitzgerald  said, that the House had heard from the right hon. baronet who had addressed them last but one, the character of the petitioners, whose claims they were called on to consider. To the testimony of that right hon. baronet, he was willing to add any weight which his opinion might carry with it. He should not, perhaps, have thought it necessary to have addressed the House; but, entertaining the opinions he did on this subject, and standing, as he did, in a public situation, he conceived himself bound to state the grounds on which he intended to give his vote that evening. In giving that vote, he would be a traitor to his own feelings, a traitor to the cause which he supported, and a traitor to his country, if he gave to the sentiments of any man a greater degree of importance than they intrinsically deserved, abstracted from every
 868 869 870
 The Solicitor General  was prepared to admit that the courtesy intended was a course of no novelty; but when it went forth to the public, that his Majesty's ministers were neglecting their public duties to attend a turtle feast, he apprehended it became expedient that the circumstances should be put on a right footing.
 The Solicitor General (Sir W. Garrow) , said, that the postponement of the discussion would be a matter of accommodation on both sides, as the Army Estimates and other orders would be before the House, which were likely to occupy their attention for a considerable time.
 Sir Eyre Coote  said, he would not trespass on the time of the House by dilating on a question in its more general bearings, so much better understood by many persons in the House than he pretended to understand it; but in the capacity of a military man, he could not forbear offering a few observations on it, as it was connected with military affairs. He could not conceive from any thing with which his experience had made him acquainted, that there was any danger in admitting the Catholics to stations of rank and command in the army; their loyalty was known; the proofs of it were innumerable: and from them he would select a few prominent features snfficient in themselves to do away any jealousy that might be felt with respect to their views and wishes. He recollected, when in the year 1793, the expedition sailed from Ireland for the West Indies, which was commanded by that skilful and gallant officer sir Charles Grey, than whom no man ever deserved better of his country—a man, who was equally eminent in the field and the cabinet—that officer had uniformly praised the conduct of the Irish, troops, which formed a considerable part of his force, and had attributed principally to their valour the important conquests he had effected; now two-thirds of these Irish soldiers were Catholics. A number of Irish Catholics also served in Egypt under generals sir Ralph Abercromby and lord Hutchinson, and most materially contributed to the important successes which had been gained there; they had fought in numbers and with their wonted gallantry in Holland, and were now fighting in the peninsula. When he looked, then, at the devoted zeal with which these people were ever ready to shed their blood in defence of their country, or for the augmentation of her glory, he did not feel himself justified in voting against a Committee which was to inquire whether that country could with safety confer on
 858
 Sir Frederick Flood. —Mr. Speaker; the best apology I can make to this House, for rising at this very late hour, is to assure them shall be very short. But, on a question so deeply important as the present, which, whilst it involves the general interests of the empire, affects, in a peculiar manner, millions of the country to which I have the honour to belong; I owe it to myself, and to my numerous constituents (many thousands of all religious persuasions), to explain my reasons for voting to go into a committee. 877 878
 Sir John Cox Hippisley  rose and said: 851 852 853
 Sir J. Owen  objected in strong terms, to the hardships that would be imposed upon him, were the House to grant the motion. The standing order required that an application of this sort should be made by the petitioner within a convenient time. Now the motion was six weeks after the petition against his return was presented, and only three days before the time fixed for trying the election. It would be impossible for him to send down 200 miles into Pembrokeshire to procure such lists in time to be presented before the Committee.
 Sir J. Owen  replied, that farther delay must necessarily be injurious to himself. The time for trying the petition had been fixed by the House, and of course, he had made all his arrangements to meet it.
 Sir John Stewart,  (member for the county of Tyrone) said:—Mr. Speaker; in taking this great and most interesting subject into our consideration, I trust the House will be divested of all feelings but those, which sound justice and policy hall dictate, and that it will particularly be jealous of all those local and partial sensations, which deep rooted prejudices may have given strength to; or the recollections of former sufferings may call up, to baffle the cool deliberation, now so necessary for us to cultivate and encourage. But, while we endeavour to overcome our own feelings, we must turn our attention to the feelings of those who have petitioned this House; that, by understanding the extent of the danger apprehended on the one side, and the object required on the other, this House, in its sober judgment, may be better able to supply some remedy, which shall cool the heart-burnings of a disturbed and divided people, and, at last, lay the fever, which is weakening and destroying their civil constitution. 862 863 864 865 866
 Sir Nicholas Colthurst,  in a maiden speech, said:—Mr. Speaker, I trust I shall be excused from trespassing upon the patience of the House, in shortly stating the reasons which induce me to give my vote in favour of going into a committee. Every one must, I think, be aware that the question, now offered to be submitted to your consideration, is one most deeply interesting to the welfare, most important to the interests, of Ireland, and consequently to those of the empire. In this point, at least, all parties are agreed; all are aware of its importance, though they differ as to its merits. As such, Sir, it justly challenges every consideration, every attention, which the legislature can bestow upon it; that, whatever may be the ultimate decision, whatever the result, it may be one, which has been matured by deliberation, and corrected by inquiry. It was with this view of the subject, with this impression of its importance, and from a laudable anxiety to fulfil the first duty of legislators, by an ample investigation of the complaints of their petitioners, that the late House of Commons entered into that Resolution which is recorded on their Journals. With this view, they bound themselves by a pledge which, had not their existence been terminated by the election of the present parliament, they would now have been called upon to redeem. That such a pledge is binding upon their successors, certainly cannot be asserted; but I maintain, that, while the circumstances of the case remain the same, while the same importance attaches itself to the question, the present House are equally bound to entertain and deliberate upon, the measure. I trust that they will do so, that they will follow the precedent set before them by their predecessors, and show an anxious disposition at least, to promote that final and conciliatory adjustment, which every well-wisher to his country, every one who regards the unanimity of his fellow subjects as the best safeguard of the constitution, must look forward to, with anxiety and satisfaction. I think it is the bounden duty of parliament to shew
 859
 Sir John Newport  rose amidst loud cries of Question! The right hon. baronet observed, that as there were very many members who were anxious to speak on the question, he should move an adjournment of its consideration to Monday.
 Sir J. Newport  contended that in the case of Irish contested elections, there was often a mutual exchange of lists, even after the Committee was struck.
 Mr. William Fizgerald , in explanation. Sir, if the right hon. gentleman supposes that I am averse to any communication With the Catholic body, he must have adopted such a notion from some very vague and indistinct report of the speech, which I delivered in the Course of the present debate, which I am satisfied he could not have heard. Far from entertaining the opinion imputed to me, I conceive that constant, confidential, and affectionate communication with the Catholics is necessary to promote a beneficial adjustment of the present question. The right hon. gentleman reasons, not from what I have said, but from what I have not said, by the cheer which drew forth some of the right hon. gentleman's remarks. I do not mean to impute to him any dereliction of principles; but I cannot help now saying, that, however great the dissonance of opinion between me and my right hon. colleague, upon which he (Mr. Pole) has observed so freely, it is perfect concord, when compared to the manner in which the right hon. gentleman differs from himself.
 Mr. Secretary Peel .—Sir; the speech which the right hon. gentleman has just delivered, is the most extraordinary one which I ever heard. Sir, I defy the right honourable gentleman to reconcile the opinions, which he has just expressed, upon the Catholic claims, with those which, from his own avowal, at a former period, he was supposed to entertain. 901 902 903 904 905 906 sine quâ non 907 908 909 910 911 912 913 914 * * 915
 Mr. Ward  begun by saying, that he felt himself relieved from any necessity of entering into a detailed refutation of the arguments against emancipation, not only because they had been so often refuted already, but because they had in a great measure lost the hold they once had upon the judgment, and still more upon the feelings of the public.—Indeed, if he were to name the question upon which, so far as his knowledge extended, the progress of opinion in any age or country had been most rapid, most palpable, and most satisfactory, it would undoubtedly be this. If, for instance, we compared the situation in which the Catholics now stand, with that in which they stood only twenty years ago, when in the yea? 1792 not only was the prayer of their petition rejected by a vast majority of the Irish parliament,—(a parliament comprehending some of those that had since been numbered among its most distinguished advocates,)—but the petition itself was
 916 917 918 919 920 921 922 923 924 925 926 927 928 929 mutatis mutandis 930 931 932 933 à priori 934 935 936 937 pro formâ 938 939 940
 Mr. Peel  observed, in explanation, that he by no means intended any disrespect to the right reverend prelate (bishop of Norwich), he merely expressed his regret at the union of his name with that of a person whose society could reflect no honour upon him.
 The Hon. Frederick Robinson  said:—Sir; I have never approached the consideration of this question, without feeling the utmost doubt, and difficulty, and diffidence of my own judgment. It has never appeared to me to be a question to be decided by magnificence of declamation, exuberance of wit, or vehemence of invective. Such modes of discussing it appear to me altogether unlikely to lead to any beneficial result. Considering it, however, in the most dispassionate manner, I voted, last year, for the motion of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning), and it is now my intention to adhere to that vote. It then appeared to me that the question had arrived at such a point, that it was absolutely necessary that it should be considered, with a view to some determinate proposition. We have here, for more than ten years, been debating this question upon its abstract principles; and it appears to me infinitely more wise to bring it to some specific point, as the only means of reconciling both parties, to the decision of parliament. I had thought, therefore, last year, that it was advisable to support the right hon. gentleman's motion, and I did
 963 on in 964 965
 Mr. Charles Marsh  said, that the right hon. gentleman who spoke last had talked much of the alarm he felt lest the laws established by the Roman Catholic clergy should interfere with those of government; but if due enquiry had been made, it would be found that they had rather a concurrent than an opponent jurisdiction. The fears expressed lest the Pope should recover his power were equally futile: for what authority could that man exert over others, who could not command himself? A right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) had indulged in remarks unjustifiably severe upon the conduct of a right reverend prelate who had distinguished himself in favour of the Catholic cause: a man, the simplicity of whose manners, the integrity of whose heart, and the sagacity of whose understanding, were almost proverbial: a man, venerable from his age, estimable for his virtues, admirable for his learning, and who had ever distinguished himself as a friend to civil and religious liberty. Surely, because, this distinguished, learned, and revered personage had not refused to accept an invitation to dine with individuals to whose opinions he was favourable, he was not to be stigmatized as one who countenanced the drunken orgies of a riotous mob; nor because he coincided in sentiment, was it to be said that he had decended from the elevated dignity that a prelate of the church of England ought to maintain. The last speaker had asked
 950
 Mr. Hurt Davis , jun. (member for Colchester) rose and said: 978 979 980
 Mr. Henry Lascelles .—Sir, the subject, now under discussion, has been so fully debated, for several years, that I shall confine my observations solely to what appears, to me, to be the result. The House is now required to go into a committee, with a view to a conciliatory adjustment of the Catholic claims; but before I can consent to go into a committee, some practi-
 981 982
 Mr. Hiley Addington  believed there was not one gentleman in the House, except the hon. member, who could believe that such a paragraph as he had read was issued from his noble relation the Secretary of State's office. There was no authority whatever for this assertion, as far as he knew; from his knowledge of what passed at the office to which he belonged.
 Mr. Ryder  said he had not seen the memorandum alluded to.
 Mr. Ryder :
Sir; I have had so many opportunities of delivering my sentiments on the subject of the Roman Catholic claims, in former sessions, that I shall not trespass long upon the patience of the House: but as one of those who have uniformly opposed concession to those Claims, I am anxious that the grounds of that opposition be distinctly understood, and freed from those misconceptions which still prevail respecting them, and which have received some countenance from the speech of my honourable friend (Mr. Ward) who spoke last but one. 942 943 944 945 946 947 948
 Mr. R. Shaplin Carew  said, he feared he could hardly think himself authorised in trespassing on the indulgence of the House, more particularly as he was fully aware of the anxiety and importance with which every one must look forward to the decision of this question; but, as a native of Ireland, and feeling himself most deeply concerned in what related so essentially to the peace and happiness of his countrymen, he hoped he should not be deemed presumptuous in stating very briefly his sentiments. From every view he had been enabled to take of the subject, and from any experience which a residence in his native country might have afforded him, he was most decidedly of opinion that there was no one question so much calculated to strengthen the resources of Great Britain and to raise Ireland to that rank in the scale of the empire to which her natural advantages entitled her. It could not be for our interest that, when every energy should be exerted in resistance to the attacks of a common enemy, the right arm of the empire should be paralyzed by the incapacities under which the majority of the population of Ireland suffered. Give them but a free participation in the privileges of our glorious constitution—give them but a common cause and a common interest to defend, and, in the hour of danger, Ireland will not be then a vulnerable point. The hearts and the hands of Irishmen never had been, nor ever would be, backward in the defence of our rights. The violent language of the Catholic meetings had been urged as an objection to their claims. Did our ancestors, then, assert their liberties in such cool and temperate language? Was it in human nature not to feel some degree of warmth when the happiness or misery of
 941
 Mr. Whitbread  asked if this Police Gazette was not published under the authority of that office of the Secretary of State for the Home Department? It was not enough to say they had no cognizance of such a paragraph—they ought to have cognizance of it.
 Mr. Whitbread  rose and said:
I am anxious, Sir, once more to express to the House my sentiments upon this momentous question: but I shall do so the more briefly, because the side of the question which I espouse has been already soably supported by gentlemen whose arguments up to the present moment remain untouched. Glad I am, Sir, that the hon. gent, over the way (Mr. Marsh), provoked by unfounded insinuations and by daring assertions, felt himself called upon in the warmth of his resentment, to vindicate that distinguished and immaculate prelate, the bishop of Norwich, who had previously received a meed of praise (well bestowed on this, but little approved by the other side of the House), in a
 951 aye no aye aye 952 953 magnates 954 955 956 "But when at Heaven's gate St. Peter seemed To wait him with his keys— A violent cross wind from either coast Blew him transverse ten thousand leagues away Into the devious air: and there he saw Cowls, hoods, and habits with their wearers— ————————reliques, and beads, Indulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls." 957 958 all every 959 960 Romanists 961 'Pointing to the skies, 'Like a tall bully, lifts its head, and  lies.' Church on in 962
 Mr. Wellesley Pole,  in explanation, said—Sir, my right hon. friend has misstated (certainly not intentionally) what I said. I did not say that there was a Memorandum among my right hon. friend's official papers, declaring that I was of opinion that all privileges demanded by the Catholics could be granted, with perfect
 949
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  rose and said: 890 891 892 893 894 895 896 897 898 899 900
 Sir John Newport  rose and said, that if the question had been left to the consideration of the House, under the circumstances, and in the form in which it had undergone the discussion of last year, he certainly should not have felt himself then called upon to trespass on their patience, but would have rested the cause of the Roman Catholics on the statement so ably made by his right hon. friend who opened the debate; and on the eloquent appeal of another hon. gentleman (Mr. Plunket) whose speech was heard by the Mouse with so much attention, and which had been honoured with so much well-merited applause. 881 882 883 884 * * 885 886 887 888 889
 Sir Thomas Dyke Acland .—Sir, I am fully aware that, in delivering my sentiments, at any time, I have much to request from the indulgence of the House; and therefore, more particularly, at so late an hour, and on a subject of so great importance. Feeling, however, that I have the misfortune to differ from many (both in and out of this House) for whose judgment and opinion I entertain the greatest respect, I hope that I may be permitted shortly to explain the grounds of my vote this night. 966 967 968 969
 Sir Thomas Sutton  rose and said:—Sir, I should not have ventured to obtrude myself on the notice of the House, on this occasion, had I not thought that, in giving a silent vote upon this important question, I should have ill discharged my duty to my constituents, and to the populous and respectable county, which I have the honour to represent. 970 concordatum 971
 Viscount Palmerston .—Sir, I feel reluctant to obtrude upon the House, at this late hour, but I cannot suppress my anxiety not to give a silent vote upon this question. I shall certainly support the motion of the right hon. gent. but, on a question upon which there are so many shades and gradations of opinion, among those who will generally concur in their vote on the resolution, I am desirous not to be misunderstood as to the extent of opinion, which my vote will express. 972 973 974 975 976
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that no person could feel more thoroughly than himself the importance and delicacy of the present subject. But, as a notice was entered in the order book, of a motion at no further distant period than the day after to-morrow, relative to her royal highness
 985
 Lord Castlereagh  said, it was with great pain and distrust in his own individual judgment, that he felt himself, on the present occasion, compelled to differ from those with whom he usually acted; but a sense of duty alone would influence his vote that night. He never felt less prone to suffer personal considerations to enter into a discussion of a great public question, conducted as it had been throughout with the utmost moderation and temper; he hoped, therefore, that if he held himself bound to repel an accusation brought against him by a right hon. and learned gentleman, (Mr. Plunket) on a preceding evening, that right hon. gentleman
 1019 1020 1021 1022 1023 1024 1025 1026 1027 1028
 Mr. Rose  assured the House, that if he were convinced any real benefits were likely to arise from going into the proposed committee, no man could be more disposed to assent to that measure than himself. He fell it due, however, to his own feelings and conviction, to observe, as the noble lord had mentioned the authority of Mr. Pitt, as having undergone no change of mind with respect to the question before the House, that if the noble lord meant to say, that Mr. Pitt was of opinion relief should be extended to the Catholics of Ireland, he agreed with the noble lord; but if the noble lord meant to say that Mr. Pitt's mind had undergone no change whatever on the subject, he should beg leave to differ totally with the noble lord; for he was convinced that if Mr. Pitt were at that moment in the House, he would vote against the motion.
 Lord Castlereagh  contended, that Mr. Pitt had been uniformly consistent in supporting the expediency of the Catholic claims; and in advocating that sentiment, exclusively of his own individul experience of that great statesman's opinions, he begged leave to appeal to the causes which had influenced his going out of office. With regard to the particular line of conduct which Mr. Pitt might adopt, were he then present, he would leave it to the House to decide, whether either the right hon. gentleman or himself, could be justified in delivering a decided opinion.
 Mr. Robinson  explained, that what he had said, and to which the hon. baronet had alluded, referred to that remarkable expression in the hon. baronet's speech which he had used when speaking of the petitions received from the clergy. Those petitions he had represented as coming from men who had mitres  on
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, what had just passed showed to what perfection the critical taste of the House had been brought. This, however, had been amply illustrated in the course of the present discussion. They had, nevertheless, been told, that they ought not to criticise the petitions submitted to them too closely; yet one hon. gentleman who had spoken from under the gallery, had said he could not vote for the motion on account of the intemperate language held by the Irish Catholics, and this though the English Catholics, it was admitted, had urged their claims with singular modesty. Thus it would be seen, in whatever temper the Catholics pursued the object they had in view, with some it was impossible their prayer could have effect. Particular notice had been taken of what had been said by an hon. baronet, respecting a certain prelate, yet last night the chief secretary for Ireland had cast quite as strong a reflection on another reverend prelate, who was in every respect as venerable and as immaculate as the bishop of Lincoln.
 Mr. Ponsonby  resumed. The intemperate language held by the Catholics, he contended, was not to be wondered at when the slate of the press in Ireland was considered, which was understood to be under the controul of the right hon. gentleman's government, from which publications were constantly issuing, filled
 1038 1039 1040 1041 bona fide,
 Mr. Canning  rose and spoke as follows: 1042 1043 1044 1045 1046 1047 'Quos ego—sed motos præstat componere fluctus.' 1048 post obit 1049 ——" hates you while you live, "But die, and shell adore you." 1050 1051 res dura, et regni novitas, 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 Tuque prior, tu parce, genus qui ducis Olympo.' suppressio veri, suggestio falsi." 1057 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064 1065 1066 1067 1068 1069 pro forma, 1070 Ergo, negatur major. 1071 1072
 The Speaker  said it was not strictly regular for one hon. member thus to rise to explain what had fallen from another.
 The Speaker  rose, and staled, that he felt it to be his duty to inform the House, that he had received yesterday, while seated in the chair of that House, a Letter, purporting to come from her royal highness the Princess of Wales, and which it was expressed to be her wish should be communicated to the House. The Letter, however, being without date, and having been delivered to one of the messengers at the door of the House, the Speaker did not think that it came to his hands in such an authenticated form as warranted him in laying it before the House. This day he had felt it incumbent on him to ascertain whether the Letter was authentic or not, and from those enquiries, and from a letter which he had this day received from her royal highness the Princess of Wales, acknowledging that the letter of yesterday came from her, and enclosing a duplicate of it, he had now no longer any reason to doubt the Letter's being authentic. With the permission of the House, therefore, he should now, if it was their pleasure, read the Letter he had received this day, with the duplicate of the Letter of yesterday inclosed in it.
 Mr. Bathurst  proceeded. He reminded the House of the manner in which this question was carried in the last year;—that it was done in the confident expectation, in which he certainly had not concurred, that such an arrangement might have been made with the Catholic body, as would have enabled the promoters of the measure to bring forward in this session, a well-digested plan, mutually satisfactory,
 1073
 Mr. Wilbraham Bootle  would not have offered his sentiments, had there not been a call on those members who voted last year for the committee, and who did not intend to do so this year. He had voted for Mr. Canning's motion in the hope and expectation that the spirit of conciliation and concession shewn by the House would have been met by a corresponding spirit on the part of the Catholics of Ireland, which would have led to the conciliatory adjustment which was the object of the motion, but in this expectation he, in common with many others, was disappointed, for the account of the debate was received in Ireland as an insult instead of an act of grace, and was treated as such. 1005 1006
 Mr. Grattan  made a very brief reply. He said, that in all the speeches which had been made against his motion, the speakers had entered into a detail which was not sanctioned by the nature of the motion. The reason of which was, that they wished to go into the consideration of minute articles, in order to avoid the principle which they could not justly oppose. He had spoken with respect of the petitions, and therefore it was ridiculous to say that he had done otherwise. One argument was, that the oath which excluded Roman Catholics from parliament was a part of the Bill of Sights; and, of course, that when they should be admitted, part of that Bill would
 1074
 Mr. Croker  spoke to order. He wished merely to say that his right hon. friend had last night distinctly disclaimed any intention of casting the most distant reflection on the bishop of Norwich.
 Mr. Whitbread  enquired if the hon. member who had given the notice (Mr. Cochrane Johnstone) was in the House. If so, he trusted that he would enter into some explanation on the subject. The Letter which had been read by the Speaker, avowedly originated with her royal highness the Princess of Wales. The hon. member who had given notice of a motion relative to her Royal Highness, could alone say whether he was authorised by, or whether he acted in concurrence with her Royal Highness. He (Mr. W.) apprehended not. As it appeared that the hon. member was not in the House, it might be expedient, that when he came, he should be requested to declare whether his motion was or was not founded on any understanding with her Royal Highness. If the hon. member should state that he had no authority from her Royal Highness, it would then be for the House to decide on the propriety of taking her Royal Highness's communication into their most serious and deliberate consideration (as he trusted they would), independently of a notice with which it would appear to be wholly unconnected. Here the conversation dropped.
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the letter which had been just read by the Speaker, could not fail, not only to interest every person who had heard it, but to appear to all to be of such importance as to require the immediate attention of the House. He apprehended it was impossible that such a communication could be made from so high a quarter, and suffered to pass with being simply read, in silence. He had waited until a noble lord opposite, a minister of state, one of the confidential servants of the crown, when her royal highness the Princess of Wales's conduct was formerly taken into consideration, by that part of his Majesty's most honourable privy council, particularly and popularly designated under the name of the Cabinet, and who must have been one of that body of privy counsellors, to whom the consideration of her Royal Highness's conduct had recently been submitted—he had waited until he saw that noble lord take his place (an intimation, as he presumed, that it was not that noble lord's intention to make any proposition on the subject), before he had risen to address the Chair. Not seeing any other hon. member disposed to proceed in the business, he wished to ask the noble lord, whether it was his intention to call the further attention of the House to her Royal Highness's Letter.
 Mr. M. Sutton  repeated that the passage in the pamphlet which had been alluded to, did not deserve the construction which had been put on it, and contended he had a right to state such to be his opinion, and this opinion he would still maintain.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  rose and said: 1029 1030 1031 1032 1033 1034 1035
 Sir Henry Parnell  rose and addressed the House as follows: 987 988 fons et origo mali, 989 l 990 * * 991 * * 992 * * 993 994 * * 995 
 1. "Cursed is he that commits idolatry; that prays to images or relics, or worships them for God. R. Amen. 2. "Cursed is every goddess-worshipper, that believes the Virgin Mary to be any more than a creature; that honours her, worships her, or puts his trust in her more than in God; that believes her above her Son, or that she can in any thing command him. R. Amen. 3. "Cursed is he that believes the saints in heaven to be his Redeemers, that prays to them as such, or that gives God's honour to them, or to any creature whatsoever. R. Amen. . 4. "Cursed is he that worships any breaden God, or makes Gods of the empty elements of bread and wine. R. Amen. 5. "Cursed is he that believes priests can forgive sins, whether the sinner repent or not; or that there is any power in earth or heaven that can forgive sins, without a hearty repentance and serious purpose of amendment. R. Amen. 6." Cursed is he that believes there is authority in the Pope or any others, that can give leave to commit sins: or that can forgive him his sins for a sum of money; R. Amen. 7. "Cursed is he that believes that, independent of the merits and passion of Christ, he can merit salvation by" his own good works; or make condign satisfaction for the guilt of his sins, or the pains eternal due to them. R. Amen. 8. "Cursed is he that contemns the word of God, or hides it from the people, on design to keep them from the knowledge of their duty, and to preserve them in ignorance and error. R. Amen. 9. "Cursed is he that undervalues the word of God, or that, forsaking Scripture, chuses rather to follow human traditions than it. R. Amen. 10. "Cursed is he that leaves the commandments of God, to observe the constitutions of men. R. Amen. 11. "Cursed is he that omits any of
 996 12. "Cursed is he that preaches to the people in unknown tongues, such as they understand not; or uses any other means to keep them in ignorance. R. Amen. 13. "Cursed is he that believes that the Pope can give to any, upon any ac count whatsoever, dispensation to be or swear falsely; or that it is lawful for any, at the last hour, to protest himself innocent in case he be guilty. R. Amen. 14. "Cursed is he that encourages sins, or teaches men to defer the amendment of their lives, on presumption of their deathbed repentance. R. Amen. 15. "Cursed is he that teaches men that they may be lawfully drunk on a Friday, or any other fasting day, though they must not take the least bit of flesh. R. Amen. 16. "Cursed is he who places religion in nothing but a pompous shew, consisting only in ceremonies; and which leaches not the people to serve God in spirit and truth. R. Amen. 17. "Cursed is he who loves or promotes cruelty, that teaches people to be bloody-minded, and to lay aside the meekness of Jesus Christ. R. Amen. 18. "Cursed is he who teaches it lawful to do any wicked thing, though it be for the interest and good of Mother Church: or that any evil action may be done that good may come of it. R. Amen. 19. "Cursed are we, if, amongst all these wicked principles and damnable doctrines commonly laid at our doors, any one of them be the faith of our Church: and cursed are we, if we do not as heartily detest all those hellish practices as they that so vehemently urge them against us. R. Amen. 20. "Cursed are we, if, in answering and saying Amen to any of these curses, we use any equivocations, mental reservations, or do not assent to them in the common and obvious sense of the words. R. Amen. 997 998 999 * * 1000 1001 1002 1003 1004
 Sir Robert Heron , in explanation.—Sir; I am extremely unwilling to detain the House, even for a moment; but, after the violent and unexpected attack, which has been made upon me by the right hon. gentleman, who spoke last, the House will not expect I should remain silent. Another hon. gentleman (Mr. Robinson) last night accused me of having uttered a grosss calumny, and after that Charge had been brought, I must so far agree with him as to say, that it must belong either to me or to him; but the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, has entirely misrepresented me. I did not call the learned bishop my friend; that term with me is sacred; and I have no right to use it towards the learned bishop, with whom I have not had the opportunities of cultivating much
 1036
 Sir William Scott : 1007 1008 1009 1010 1011 1012 1013 * * 1014 1015 1016 de bene esse, 1017 1018
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider of the Finances of Great Britain; and that the several Accounts of the National Debt and of the produce of the Consolidated Fund and War Taxes, be referred to the said Committee. The House having resolved itself into a Committee, Mr. Hawthorne in the chair,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  addressed him to the following effect: 1079 1080 1081 1082 l 1083 1084 1085 1086 1087 1088 1089 1090 1091 l s d 1092 l s d l s d l s d 1093 1094 l 1095
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the leading objection of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney) was, that the plan now proposed would overturn the system of 1802, an objection coming rather oddly from that right hon. gentleman, who had constantly expressed his disapprobation of that, system, and contended that it was inconvenient and impracticable., He now, however, argued that the
 1099 l 1100 1101
 Mr. Baring  did not think it possible to go at all into argument on this subject, with the imperfect information which was then before the House. But the mere stating of the case comprised circumstances which shocked persons who were anxious for the firm state of public credit, and for the fair situation of the finances of the country. They could not hear those circumstances stated, without expressing regret and surprise. He felt considerable alarm at the progress this plan was likely to make; at the same time he must observe on the subject of interfering with the Sinking Fund, that a period might come, when it would be necessary to interfere with it, even if the new system had not been introduced. The circumstance of the Sinking Fund letting loose twenty millions at once, at the disposal of government, rendered some regulation on the subject necessary; but there was a great difference between that regulation which went to strengthen the fund, and that which would have the effect of weakening it. In making any alteration, they must necessarily look to the state of Europe and of the world at the time the alteration was proposed. They must consider whether their finances had been productive in that year, or whether the national expenditure had been diminished. They must examine, whether, for a year or two, the expenditure had not been greatly increased, and whether, in addition to this, they did not find, from the price of the public funds, that there was a difficulty in raising the supplies, by way of loan, in preference to taxes. Perhaps, on a review of these circumstances, they might consider the present an unfavourable period for touching the Sinking Fund at all. He thought it was desirable that the public should be apprised of the nature of the plan; its discussion, in his opinion, could create no immediate effect on public credit. What the measure itself would produce in two or three years, was another thing. As it was intended that, in the present year, taxes to the amount of 870,000 l 1102 l l
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that whatever were the merits or demerits of the plan, he thought no expressions should have been made use of, tending to create an immediate effect on public credit. In this point of view, the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had, in his opinion, placed the question on its true grounds, and corrected the doubts which had been thrown out, in' speeches made that evening—he was convinced that those by whom they were delivered, had no intention of producing any unpleasant feeling in the public mind; but still what had been observed, if it had gone out to the world, unaccompanied by the statement of the hon. gentleman, who spoke last, that no immediate effect would be produced, might have done mischief.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that his hon. friend was greatly mistaken in supposing that the Sinking Fund would ever be reduced 7 millions below its present amount. The greatest diminution would in fact be only about two millions, which would take place, in the course of about four years, after which the Sinking Fund would again gradually accumulate. He again contended that the plan was perfectly consistent with good faith towards the public creditor. Any idea to the contrary could only arise, as most of the objections made that evening had done, from a misconception of the plan. The faith pledged to the public creditor was that of an adherence to the Act of 1792, to which the proposed plan was strictly conformable. That act required that provision should be made for the redemption of the debt, within 45 years; the different plans of Mr. Pitt, of lord Sidmouth, and of lord Lansdowne, were all founded on that basis. The plan now submitted to the committee not only strictly complied with this condition, but actually made provision, for the redemption of the debt within a shorter time than the laws now in force. It was therefore capable of performing more than the stockholder had a right to look to, or the public to expect. 1104
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  referred to the inconvenience that might result from paying off the whole of the national debt: it would be little better than a national bankruptcy; and illustrated it by referring to the case of the elector of Saxony, who had been petitioned by a vast number of persons to continue to them the public security for money they could not otherwise dispose of.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  replied, that he saw nothing, in what had occurred, to alter his view of the subject. It was his firm intention, therefore, to bring forward his motion to-morrow.
 Mr. Tierney  lamented that he should not live to enjoy any of the fruits of this noble scheme, since the advantages were postponed to so remote a period. The right hon. gentleman might be content with this distant view of the promised land, but for his part, he had rather experience some immediate benefits.
 Mr. Tierney  rose to assure the Committee, that he shared most sincerely the sentiments just uttered by the last speaker, and that he would enter into the discussion with the same motives. To him this was no party question; and he professed himself ready to give the right hon. gentleman every assistance in his power,
 1096 1097 1098
 Mr. H. Thornton  noticed two objections: first, that by this proposed plan the amount! of the Sinking Fund would eventually be diminished, and the funds consequently reduced: second, he hoped that no unfair impression would go abroad. His own general opinion was, that it was better to pass a prospective measure of this description than to adopt it suddenly. It was not enough to look at it as it might affect taxation, but its future operation on the stock market it was equally important to attend to. Another point was, how far it was consistent with the public faith pledged in 1792, and the Act of Parliament upon
 1103
 Mr. Whitbread,  as he saw an hon. gentleman in his place, who had given notice of a motion for to-morrow, wished to ask him whether, under the circumstance that happened since his notice, of the Letter addressed by her royal highness the Princess of Wales, to the House of Commons, he still persisted in his intention of bringing forward the motion?
 Mr. Giddy  said, the plan proposed was, essentially, nothing more than calling on the Sinking Fund to bear the expences of the year. The best effects, moral and political, had been produced by the establishment of that fund, which, he was afraid, the right hon. gentleman's system would diminish, by altering and impairing it. The right hon. gentleman seemed to think that we might now have recourse to that fund, which would be the means of rendering additional taxation unnecessary for some years; and that, at a future period, those taxes might be resorted to for the public service. He was afraid, that those who entertained such an opinion would be deceived. For, after the public had been exempted for some years from additional burdens, he doubted whether any minister would be found hardy enough, under such circumstances, to propose an enlarged system of taxation. He would abstain from farther observation at that time, and conclude with saying, that he never had heard a plan proposed which had given him so much pain.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that he for one acceded to the postponement of the discussion upon the plan of his right hon. friend until a future day; and as he did not understand that plan, he should, for the present, carefully abstain from any comment upon it further than this; that it appeared to him, upon the face of it, to be the most important change in the financial arrangements of the country that had ever been proposed in the course of a long and eventful war. His right hon. friend had said, in the course of his speech, that Mr. Pitt had always looked to this practical effect; but though he could not see what that might be, he could not shut his eyes to the fact which had been stated by his right hon. friend in the last session, that the finances of the country were labouring;" a state of things, which he earnestly hoped the present plan might be effectual in remedying, He was well aware of the difficult situation in which his right hon. friend was placed; he should look at the proposed plan in the spirit of candour, and if he troubled the House more at length at a future period, it would not be until he had made himself acquainted with all the details.
 Sir John Newport,  without any declared opposition on his part to the plan, thought! it became the duty of the committee to: examine, in the most minute manner, the resolutions, with respect both to their immediate and futue operration on the financial system of the country.
 Mr. Wynn  wished to be informed by
 1107
 Lord Castlereagh  said, it was his intention to avail himself of the first opportunity to give such explanations as his duty required from him. It would not, however, be taking a fair part towards her Royal Highness, if after throwing herself on the House as she had done, he should originate any question. It was a singular situation in which her Petition stood, if there was no individual in the House to explain the nature of her complaint, and to propose some remedy for it. If any person was prepared to come forward, then it would be for the House to determine what course it was most proper for it to pursue. He was certainly the last person who could be charged with that task, but he should have no reluctance to explain such matters as his duty would allow him to speak of on a proper occasion.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that he would not consent to be put on his defence for any petition, or to give any explanations, if no individual thought proper to submit a motion upon it. It was his duty as a privy counsellor not to disclose the secrets of the council without the permission of the crown—nothing should induce him to swerve from his course of duty; but at the same time he would say, that he had given no advice which he was not willing to avow and to defend. If the hon. member had read the Report, he would find it was not open to the construction put upon it. The question for the consideration of the council was not one of charge, but one relating to regulations under which her Royal Highness was to be allowed to see her daughter.
 Lord Castlereagh  would still persevere in refusing to answer any questions arising
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that whenever any intention of that nature was entertained by the Prince Regent's ministers, due notice would be given of it,
 Mr. Bennet  declared, that whenever the gallery was cleared, he should persist in moving an adjournment and he now again moved that the House should adjourn.
 Mr. Yorke  expressed his regret that the
 Mr. Yorke  said, in explanation, that the
 Mr. Canning  said, that he had shewn his disapprobation of the question of adjournment by voting against it, as he should do again if driven to that necessity.
 Lord Castlereagh  trusted that the House would never be called upon to deliberate on the right of moving the question of adjournment. The mode, however, in which that right had now been exercised, was
 Captain Vyse  observed, that any gentleman who involved the House in this unpleasant dilemma, took the responsibility upon himself. The hon. mover (Mr. C. Johnstone) had withdrawn his motion expressly
 Mr. Bennet  rose to inquire whether if he withdrew his motion for an adjournment, the motion for clearing the gallery would be also withdrawn?
 Mr. Osborne  said, that the hon. member had better move at once that the standing order should be rescinded.
 Lord Stanley  asked whether it was the
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  felt anxious to comply with the wishes of the House, and therefore gave notice that he should bring forward his motion to-morrow.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  having thus refused, under the circumstances in which the House was placed, to bring on his motion, and lord Castlereagh having declined to give any explanation, unless some motion was before the House, or to originate any proceeding himself, the House of course adjourned, there being nothing to occupy its attention.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  rose and said, that as the hon. gentleman opposite had cleared the gallery, he should not bring forward his motion that night, but reserve to himself the right of renewing it on any future occasion.
 Mr. Stewart Wortley  explained his motive in moving an adjournment on a former occasion not to be a wish to have an audience hear his speech.
 Mr. Whitbread  thought the enforcement of the standing order, in this instance, unseasonable, though he considered that order essential to the independence of the House. It had happened to him to have the gallery cleared in consequence of something that fell from him in debate, but he had not thought it necessary to declare—immediately to declare, that he would speak no more. He would therefore recommend the same line to the hon. gentleman, and either to renew his motion at once, or to move that the Report which he had read should be laid on the table.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he was surprised that the noble lord did not, on the day the Letter from the Princess of Wales was read to the House, give notice of some motion on so important a proceeding; it was due to her Royal Highness, to the House, and to the public, that some investigation should follow such an appeal as had been made to them. No similar application was ever placed on the table without some proceeding suitable to its degree of importance. He did not know that the noble lord, or the Speaker, were called to that council, till he read the Pilot Newspaper of that evening, containing what was said to be the Report alluded to in the Letter of the Princess of Wales, and signed by 22 members of the council. The House, in his opinion, could not be satisfied without further explanation; and it was the duty of ministers, in the first instance, to have moved for an authentic copy of the Report that was agreed to * *
 Mr. Whitbread  was not calling in question the intentions but the acts of ministers—their intentions he did not know.
 Mr. Whitbread  then read the Report, and said the public were ignorant of all the circumstances which had induced the
 Mr. Lygon  said, that whenever the hon. gentleman did renew his motion, he should feel it to be his duty again to move the standing order for clearing the gallery.
 Sir J. Newport  trusted that the hon. member would exercise the power which
 Lord Milton  thought it the bounden duty of ministers to take up the business, which was of the greatest importance in every point of view, and not of so trivial a nature as the noble lord affected to consider it.
 Sir C. Morgan  opposed the altering a clause in an act which had been passed twelve years ago, and which was not objected to till very recently. He should, therefore, move as an amendment, "That the Bill be read this day six months."
 Lord Robert Seymour  supported the motion. If the Bill were not sent to a committee, he did not know how he and other hon. members would be able to decide on the merits of a measure, on which such contradictory allegations had been made. If the Bill went to a committee, perhaps the clause might be so altered, as to meet the wishes of all parties.
 Mr. Bennet  moved an adjournment; first, because he wished it to appear, that when one member exercised an acknowledged right of excluding strangers, another member exercised a right equally undisputed, that of moving an adjournment: and secondly, because he owed it to himself, as a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Yorke) had uttered an indiscreet menace on the preceding evening: he should not however press his motion to a division if contrary to the sense of the House.
 Lord Castlreagh  rose and said, he felt that he should act most consistently with his duty in confining himself to explanation, with respect to parts of the hon. member's speech, which would tend to guard the House against those false impressions which that speech might otherwise excite. The mode of proceeding adopted by the hon. member was somewhat singular. His first Resolution was, in fact, even in his own view of it, without any proof. His second Resolution called for those very papers, as matters of information on "which his first Resolution was founded; as if they were matters of certain knowledge. He did not mean to urge
 1138 1139 1140
 Lord Castlereagh  was particularly glad that he had reserved himself as to the Letter of her royal highness the Princess of Wales, till he had heard what had fallen from the hon. gentleman. He repelled with great indignation the charge of that hon. gentleman, that the duke of Portland's cabinet had been prevailed upon by Mr. Perceval to take the part of her Royal Highness. The fact was, that Mr. Perceval having been then out of office, was professionally concerned for the Princess; he had with that delicacy and honour which were peculiar to him, declined to take any part whatever in that proceeding. The hon. gentleman had also suppressed another fact of importance, and of which the documents must have informed him, in a manner not consistent with candour; namely, that the Report of the four commissioners had been submitted to lord Grenville's cabinet, who had come to a Resolution, of which the minute of the duke of Portland's cabinet was little, if at all, more than a confirmation. The noble lord would not enter into details, which it was inconsistent with his duty to explain, but he most confidently denied the charge of inconsistency that had been made against himself and his colleagues. The last commission was not to inquire into * 1149 1150
 Mr. Ponsonby  could not accede to the motion of his hon. friend, yet he was almost inclined so to do, from the admirable, incomparable, resistless eloquence with which he urged it. He would ask, was it competent for this House to grant the prayer of the Princess's Letter? The Report of 1806 ought not to be laid before the House. Was there any thing in it that ought to be submitted to their consideration? Suppose the Report to be on the table, what would they do with it? Could they address the Prince Regent for a trial? Could they condemn? Could they acquit? This was truly an attack on the government; and the defence of the noble lord was worthy of the newspapers which advocated his cause. He denied that any person in opposition had had any connection with the publication of the papers, or with any part of the transaction; he disclaimed all knowledge of all proceedings therein, and he should despise any one who could make the royal quarrel a stepping-stone to office: he had never so done; those he acted with had never so done; and he wished he could say as much for the living and the dead, and that all could lay their hands on their hearts and say the same. He despised such base and despicable conduct from the bottom of his soul
 Mr. Canning  could not sufficiently praise the honest and manly warmth shewn by the hon. member who spoke last: but all motions similar to the present he should resist. He never would consent to support that which, however plausible at the moment, would endanger the permanent interests of the country. Besides, the necessity of such motions was lessened, if the object was to declare the entire acquittal of the Princess; because, from the tone of the noble lord, as well as his repeated declarations of her innocence, any further proceedings were unnecessary. He was prepared to assert and maintain, that the
 1155
 Mr. Yorke  requested Mr. C. Johnstone to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Harvey  was of opinion that the clause ought to be amended. As it at present stood, a rail-way might be carried through any gentleman's garden, in spite of his representations against such a proceeding. The House, he hoped, would not consider this a proper liberty to be invested
 1130
 Mr. Protheroe  opposed the Bill. He observed, that the value of estates in the neighbourhood of the Canal, chiefly depended on the continuance of the clause now about to be interfered with.
 Mr. Cochrane Johnstone  then rose in pursuance of his notice, and said, that it was the undoubted right of the hon. member (Mr. Lygon) to act as he had done, in clearing the House of strangers: if, however, this precaution had been taken under the impression that any thing he had to say would be unbecoming the respect he owed to that House, or inconsistent with what was due to the feelings of every branch of the royal family, such apprehensions were utterly unfounded. He thought it a duty he owed, in the first instance, to the Princess of Wales, to declare, that for the motion he was about to submit, he had no authority from her, he had had no communication with any person or persons whatsoever, and that the proceeding originated entirely and exclusively with himself. He had had no communication with the Princess of Wales, further than to send her a copy of the Resolutions,
 1132 ex-parte ex-parte 1133 1134 1135 ex-parte 1136 1137
 Mr. C. Johnstone  refused so to do, adding, that it was a proud day for him, because it had completely established the innocence of her royal highness the Princess of Wales.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he felt very warmly on this occasion, as a man of honour and a gentleman, but he could not vote either for the original motion or the amendment. He must at the same time say, it was not the speech of the noble lord that induced him to come to this determination; for the noble lord had left the points which were the most material in the discussion without any answer. He considered this a most galling and disgraceful subject, no less than dragging the royal family before the House. The true question was, whether ministers had done their duty, first to their King, and secondly
 1152
 Mr. J. P. Grant  stated, that a Petition from 500 land-owners had been presented in favour of the Bill, and another from 100 land-owners, against it. Where there were such strong allegations on both sides, he thought the Bill ought to go to a committee.
 Mr. John Wharton  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, after the question
 1154
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the hon. member who had brought forward the present motion had stated his intention to him, and he had told him, that he thought his first Resolution could not be adopted. He therefore, did not rise in support of it, for he concurred in much that had fallen: from the noble lord opposite; and thought that, at this period at least, no such motion could be entertained by the House, as might render it the vehicle of communicating to the public at large, those matters which it was much better should be suppressed. He must, however, remind the noble lord of his expression of his readiness to make explanations, particularly with respect to the more recent parts of these transactions. 1145 1146 1147 1148 *
 Mr. Brand  said, he was disappointed in the speech he had just heard: he expected to have heard some reply to the allusions made to the learned gentleman. In his opinion circumstances had come out which made him think the country was exposed to much difficulty and danger. The noble lord had made no satisfactory reply to his hon. friend; it was not enough to say the Regent had the sole prerogative of educating his daughter. Statements had been handed about in which it was said, the Princess was accused by suborned witnesses, and to suffer the matter to rest here was a denial of justice to the Princess; for this reason he would support the Amendment of his hon. friend.
 Mr. T. Foley  expatiated, at some length, on the benefits which would be derived from the act, as it at present stood: 45,000 l s s s s 1131
 Mr. Lewis  contended, that no parliamentary grounds had been shewn for bringing in this Bill, and, therefore, it must be opposed on its principle. It was said that this Bill was necessary for the protection of the land-owners in the immediate vicinity of the Canal; but the fact was, they were not the persons who introduced this measure. On the contrary, he had presented a Petition from 100 land-owners, whose estates were likely to be affected by the clause. If therefore, the maxim, 'volenti non fit injuria,' was a just one, the Bill ought not to be permitted to proceed farther. The persons supposed to be injured did not complain; but those, who might be considered the oppressor's, were the persons who appeared to be dissatisfied; for the Canal Company, and not the land owners, were the supporters of the Bill.
 Sir W. Garrow  maintained that the Prince Regent was placed by the appearance of the letter in print, in a situation that forced him to take the opinion of grave honourable persons, as to the line he was to adopt upon this subject. He denied being a party to the publication of the extracts, which appeared in a newspaper some days back. What took place was this, he and Mr. Adam, and Mr. Jekyll, were not called to revise the proceedings of the council in 1806, but they were commanded by the Prince to give their opinions upon questions proposed to them. They met at his house, locked up all the papers while the subject was in discussion; they destroyed all the copies but one, and he had not seen the papers since, till he was shewn the extract that was printed in one of the newspapers the other day.
 Mr. Lygon  moved, that strangers should not be re-admitted after the division on the Brecon Canal Bill.
 Mr. W. Smith  fully participated in what fell from the hon. member who spoke last but one; if his sister had been treated as the Princess of Wales had been, he should feel himself extremely sore. He regretted he could not see his way clear how justice could be done to the Princess, and, therefore, wished his hon. friend would explain what further proceedings he had in contemplation.
 Mr. Wood  moved the second reading of a Bill for amending a clause in the Brecknock and Abergavenny Canal Act He stated, that in 1793, an Act passed, authorising the excavation of a Canal, from the town of Brecknock, to Pontypool, in Monmouthshire. By that Act, persons possessed of coal or lime pits, within eight miles of the Canal, were permitted to form rail ways, in any direction, an either side of it, without the consent of the proprietors of those lands over which they might pass. Certain individuals were now anxious that this clause might be amended, and the powers granted by it, altered. Although several land owners petitioned
 1129
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, that if the motion had been merely for a production of papers, he should not have taken any part in the debate, for there were circumstances which would make it extremely improper in him to state any opinion upon the conduct of her royal highness the Princess of Wales, but the motion conveyed a strong censure on the proceedings which took place in 1806, and, knowing what he did of those proceedings, he could not in justice to the persons concerned in them remain silent. He believed that no impartial man who was acquainted with the manner in which that Inquiry was instituted, and the mode in which it was conducted, could think that any blame was imputable to those concerned in it.
 1141 1142 1143 1144
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, the hon. member was mistaken as to the nature of the powers given to the commissioners in 1800. He had no-authority for saying the noble lords had officiously entered on other points besides those which were referred to them., He would ask the hon. member, if he had ever read the commission? He (sir Samuel) had seen it, and if he did not very much mistake it, it went to direct the four noble lords to inquire into all the facts contained in the statement of the Princess of Wales, which had been submitted to his Majesty; among which were other matters, besides those forming the ground of the principal charge against her Royal Highness.
 Sir Thomas Plumer  being alluded to personally, felt himself called on to make a few observations: he did not know whether he was called on to defend himself against a charge for having been an adviser of the Princess, or for having given his advice, or for not being any longer her adviser. As to the first point, he had to say, that he was commanded, in 1806, to attend her Royal Highness at Blackheath, to assist in defending her from the charge at that time made against her. Did he do wrong in not withholding that advice?
 1151
 Mr. Bennet  entered into a comparative view of the recruiting service, as introduced by Mr. Windham in his celebrated bill, and the mode which was now pursued; and contended, that, although a great number of men might be procured, the system which was acted upon had the effect of destroying the militia force of the country. The plan which Mr. Windham had in view was, to make the profession of a soldier not only acceptable to himself, but agreeable to his friends. It was his desire, that, when he entered the army, the soldier should not be looked upon as one who was lost, from that hour, to civil society. This system was calculated, by encouraging enlistment for a particular period, to induce many, who would not otherwise embrace a military life, to enter into it for a few years.—He observed, that the ordinary recruiting in 1807 produced 19,000; in the quarter before Air. Windham's plan was broke in upon, 11,000; and in the
 1164 arbitri elegan-tiarum? 1165 l l l l l l l
 Mr. Fremantlc  said, that the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Huskisson) had made it unnecessary for him to trouble the Committee at much length. With respect to one or two points, however, he wished to offer some observations. There was only an increase of 973 men in the household troops, and this was attended by an annual increase of 38,000 l l l l 1174 l l l l l l l l 1175
 Mr. Peel  said, he knew four of the places in Ireland at which barracks were established—Kilkenny, Newtown, New Bridge, and the neighbourhood of Dublin. No money was so well spent as that which was thus laid out, as he was confident that a great saving was effected by erecting permanent barracks.
 Mr. Peel  said, that detailed accounts could not be expected in such cases at that of the Irish barracks. The hon. gentleman should have moved for such account in an earlier part of the session, and it would have been produced.
 Lord Castlereagh  allowed that this was the time for entering into a detailed examination of the expenditure of the army, but thought that the arguments which had been brought forward respecting insufficiency of detail, were only some of those parliamentary shifts to put off a decision on a question which were so well known to the hon. gentleman. His noble friend had not expressed his contempt of small savings, but had merely told the committee that he should deceive them if he led them to suppose that any considerable saving could be made in the Army Estimates, without as considerable a reduction of our military force. Indeed, of all the proposed savings, that which had been suggested on the local militia, was the only one of magnitude, and this could not be effected without departing from the principles laid down by parliament in its act relative to this force; that this country should never be left without sufficient internal means of defence. Of this consciousness of security the country had often during the present war felt the advantage. In contradiction to what had been affirmed by an hon. gentleman opposite, he could assert that our army was on the increase, and particularly in the British part of it. The British recruits were, indeed, sufficient to cover the deficiencies
 1187 l
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the only expence incurred by sending the life guards to the peninsula was the raising of another troop; he thought it was but fair they should have gone, otherwise they would be deprived of the ordinary advantages of the army. The extraordinaries of a regiment of life guards on foreign service were not greater than those of any other regiment. Though it was not desirable that this heavy corps should perform the duty adapted to lighter troops, yet it was essential, in time of action, to have a body of cavalry, of such weight, and so efficient in every respect as that in question, to bear the brunt of the battle. It was by the desire of lord Wellington that they were sent in his rear to the Tagus, instead of having been forwarded by Corunna to Castile, and in that gallant general's last dispatches, he said, he had reviewed the life guards and the Oxford blues, and never saw such fine cavalry in his life. As to the saving proposed by the hon. gentleman who spoke last, as it related to the volunteer corps and local militia, there might be some, but it would be so trifling that the experiment would not make amends for it.
 Lord Castlereagh  was of opinion that the Committee could not, with propriety, postpone the staff estimate, because no material reduction could be made in that branch without injury. The number of troops in England and Ireland was very considerable, but the staff should not be proportional to the number of troops, but to the number of divisions in the districts over which the troops extended. The reduction of any part of the staff would be injurious, because it would cause a want of vigilance and regularity in the lower departments. There were not less than 130,000 men on home service in England and Ireland. This body required a large superintending staff.
 Lord Charles Somerset  said, that unaccustomed as he was to address the House, he should not have troubled them upon the present occasion, were it not for the allusion made to the office which he had the honour of filling. The hon. gentleman had stated that he founded his pro-
 1176 l l l l l
 Mr. Law  said, that although the noble lord had congratulated the House on the flourishing state of the army, yet, when the subject came to be inquired into, it would be found, that of the 10,000 additional troops which had been added to our forces, but 2,000 were British. By referring to the Gazette it would be seen, that the number of English troops who fell in action was far greater than that of foreign troops; but, to make up this loss, it would appear from the noble lord's account, that, for one Englishman, there were four foreigners enlisted—if this continued, our army would soon consist entirely of foreigners. By the noble lord's statement of casualties, it should seem that in the last three months, they amounted to near 4,000 men, in the peninsula; but in the account which had been laid before the country, they were estimated at only 1,500. Why, he would ask, were not fair accounts published? He was not afraid of looking the difficulties of the country in the face, but he wished to know them correctly. The hon. gentleman, in speaking of the means resorted to for supplying the army, reprobated the custom of draining the militia, which he considered most dangerous. He next adverted to the establishment of the Military College: he agreed in the necessity of such an institution; but thought it was not placed on a foundation sufficiently broad and extensive. In the junior department there was only the small number of 412 young men On whom a public military education was bestowed. This was a number altogether insignificant, when it was considered that there was a standing army of
 1166
 Mr. Bankes  said, that no explanatory answers had been given to the arguments of the hon. gentleman on the subject of the home staff. He would agree that they were not to judge by the amount of the staff what were the number of the troops at home; at the same time the estimates ought to be conformable to the expence. The noble lord said, it was not for the purpose of the Horse Guards, but for other purposes; then why not state the contingency fairly. They were intitled to be informed what the estimates were for. In the instance of barracks, they were not told where the barracks were that were included in the estimate. Another point was not explained, why the life guards were sent abroad: they were sent at a greater expence than any force of the same nature could have been sent, when it was acknowledged on all hands they were most unfit for foreign service. Out of this estimate, in his opinion, 600,000 l l l l 1189 l l
 Mr. Addington  said, that he wished to trouble the Committee with only a few observations on some topics that had been urged by his hon. friend who had just sat down, and an hon. gentleman (Mr. Law), who had spoken early in the debate, whom he had many reasons for having heard, then for the first time, with real pleasure, though he must own his pleasure would have been much greater, had not his opinions been so much at variance with his own. That hon. gentleman had contended against the practice of making the militia the medium for recruiting for the line on two grounds; first, that it gave offence to the commanding officers of the militia, and, secondly, on account of the expence incurred by the double bounties. He
 1172 l 1173
 Mr. Addington  assured the House that the pension granted to his right hon. friend, was given at the particular desire of his Majesty, for the important services Mr. Long had performed as Secretary of the Treasury.
 Mr. Long  said, that the pension was only 1,500 l
 Mr. Long  admitted, that in the Committee alluded to, the abolition of one of the pay masterships was recommended; but that office was not under the same circumstances as the paymastership of widows' pensions. The latter was an office in the gift of the crown, the abolition of which had been frequently recommended to parliament. He denied that there was a real excess in the expence of the department at all equal to what had been staled by the hon. gentleman. As to the office of paymaster of the forces, the emoluments had been nearly as high as at present for a century. The salary of paymaster of the forces had not been at all increased. In the year 1715, when the office was held by the earl of Lincoln, the emolument of the office was 3,730 l l 1178
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he regarded the day on which the Army Estimates were voted as an important day in every session, and he was a little disappointed on the present occasion, that none of those gentlemen who had maintained that our operations on the peninsula should be conducted upon a more extensive scale, had not come forward with some plan to shew how a greater force, and how more money to support that force, could be obtained. The object of the Committee, however, now was to see that so large a sum as 17,000,000 l l l 1184 l l l 1185 l l l 1186
 Mr. Whitbread  remarked, that in a Bill
 1188
 Mr. Whitbread  remarked, that the estimate should have contained an account of the sums expended, and likely to be expended, on each barrack, as was the case with the barrack estimates for England. As to another item of the Irish expenditure, nothing could be more galling to the public than to see sums of money voted annually to such an eminent public defaulter as general Delancy.
 Mr. Creevey  said, that he did not object to the competency of the right hon. gentleman, nor would he even complain much of the amount of the salary; but he complained of dividing the salary and splitting the office, not for the convenience of the public service, but for purposes of parliamentary influence, which was, unfortunately, more attended to often in that House. Besides, the loss of one half of his salary was amply made up to the right hon. gentleman by a pension of 2,000 l
 Mr. Creevey  said, that there was one part of the estimates upon which he meant to divide the Committee, and which he would again bring forward in the House when the resolutions should be discussed. An excels had been stated by the noble lord, of 34,000 l l l l l l
 Mr. Creevey  answered, that it was 1,500 l l
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had been in the habit of calling the attention of the House to the general state of the expenditure of the country on occasions similar to the present; but as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given the outline of a plan which he was soon to submit to them for their consideration, he should defer his observations on that subject till that plan came under discussion. He would only state at present, that if any person thought that he was less called on to retrench in consequence of that plan to render fresh taxation unnecessary for the next four years, he was most egregiously mistaken, and would be paying a very bad compliment to his right hon. friend. No person could look at his plan without feeling that it could be justified by necessity alone, and that if the war should continue for any length of time, the country would, in consequence of it, be involved in very serious difficulties. l 1167 1168 l l l l l 1169 l 1170 l l 1171
 Mr. Huskisson  confessed that the force of argument employed against the double-pay-master-ship, would compel him to give his vote against it, and expressed a wish that the vote as to the home staff should be postponed till further information was obtained on the subject.
 Mr. W. Smith  agreed with the noble lord with respect to the local militia, and thought that in the course of 20 years, if properly kept up, it would afford the most effectual defence for the country. He disapproved of the mode of enlisting men for life, in the moment of intoxication, or under circumstances equally improper; and thought that the way to ascertain the superior eligibility of the two methods of enlisting for life or for seven years, was not to ask a man who was enlisted the other day, whether he repented of his resolution, but to ask him seven years hence. With respect to the manner in which the army was clothed, he did not see why gentlemen in that House might not form an opinion on it, when their opinion was the same as that of every man they
 1190
 Lord Milton  spoke to the same effect, and in favour of the amendment.
 Lord Palmerston  explained, that what he had said with respect to small savings referred to the impossibility of reducing the great bulk of the estimate.
 Lord Palmerston  rose for the purpose of bringing before the committee the Army Estimates for the year. In executing this task, his lordship observed that it would not be necessary to occupy much of their time. Gentlemen on the other side were so well acquainted with the nature of the forms of these Estimates, that he had no observations to offer on that head; but might content himself with stating the variations between the amounts for the present and the last year. These variations he should premise, arose solely from the increase of our establishments, which, from a general view of the matter, would be found to have been augmented by the
 1157 l l l l l l 1158 l l l l l l l l 1159 l l l l l l l l l l s l l l l 1160 l l l l l l l l 1161 l l l l l l l l 1162 1163 l
 Lord Palmerston  rose to reply. With regard to what had fallen from an hon. member, respecting the recruiting service, he assured the Committee that the greatest care had been taken by the department to which he had the honour of belonging, to prevent any unfair practices in the en listing of soldiers He could not at all consider it unfair that the militia were al-
 1179 1180 1181 l l 1182 l 1183 l
 Sir F. Burdett  replied, that his time had been so much engaged by an election committee, that he had not been able to proceed further in the business of these petitions; and that he had no intention of pressing the matter any further upon the consideration of the House.
 Sir F. Burdett  replied, that the causes of the complaints preferred in the petitions had been removed.
 Mr. Fremantle  declared, that he would not press his amendment if the right hon. gentleman would assure him, that he would lay before the House all these details, which in his opinion were indispensible on the subject.
 Sir F. Burdett  answered, that it had been sent to him from Bath.
 Mr. Fremantle  drew the attention of the House to the item in this grant of 125,667 l l l s d l s d
 Mr. Ponsonby , with the most perfect respect for the right hon. gentleman, could not but say that he seemed completely to have misunderstood the nature of the Resolution, and it was in order to set him right he was anxious to address the House. 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215
 Dr. Duigenan  rose and read the Resolution on the subject of Catholic emancipation, which proposed security to the Protestant religion; but the present measure, he said, contained no security whatever. It was the same scheme as that of James the 2d, and therefore the necessary consequence of passing this Bill would be, that that king and his family were driven unjustly from the throne. The Roman Catholic religion was unchangeable: their enmity to the Protestant establishment was the same that it ever was; and the only question to be considered was, whether you would bestow civil privileges and political power on your eternal and inveterate foe. The doctrines laid down in their decrees and councils were really dreadful. To prove this, the right hon. gentleman went into numerous documents, and read copiously from their oaths, and the decisions of various councils unrepealed, which tended to shew their entire dependence upon the Pope, and that they were not bound' to keep faith with heretics. The spiritual supremacy of the Roman see, he
 1242 1243
 Lord Castlereagh  having stated his general
 1244 1245
 Mr. Canning , like the noble lord, would confine himself to the question immediately before the House, and avoid the temptation to wander into the general discussion which had already appeared so wearisome. He thought the speech of the noble lord, his declaration of support and limitation of the contingency on which his opposition might afterwards be determined, were stated with perfect candour. The noble lord had, in very strong terms, held forth the advantage which such a measure would, if carried, produce to the country. If the noble lord had gone a little further and promised to lend his own powerful aid to the measure, if it might turn out what in his opinion it ought to be, it would have been as much as the warmest friends of the Catholics could
 1246 1247 1248
 Lord Desart , after remarking that he hoped the example of the Catholic committee which had just been referred to, would be extensively followed, said he could not but express his concurrence in the proposition before the committee, for, connected with Ireland as he was, he could not be a stranger to the advantages which must result from conciliating the Catholics of that country. He was willing to grant to the Catholic much of what was required, but he must have securities for the Protestant establishment. The securities were to be contemporaneous with the concessions, if the expression could be made use of, as to the enactments of the same Bill. The regulations he should approve of would be such as might attach the Catholics to the constitution, and nothing could more attach them to it than liberty and security. He should approve of the select committee proposed by the hon. baronet (sir J. Hippisley) as there was considerable risk in legislating on subjects with which they were insufficiently acquainted.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that after the decided majority of the House for going into a committee, he should endeavour to confine himself to the question, on the footing upon which it stood. The Resolution of last session was for considering the question generally, with the view to two objects—the conciliation of the Catholics, and security to the Protestant establishment. It seemed to him, that the promoters of the question did not see their way. He objected to the mode of proceeding which had been adopted by the right hon. mover of the Resolution. He was aware, that in all questions relative to an alteration in the laws of the country, the regular mode was to submit the proposition to a committee; but the person making the proposition stated the measure he had in view, described its general
 1228 1229 1230 1231 1232 1233
 Mr. Grattan  rose and said, that he had thought it unnecessary and inconvenient the other night, when the House shewed the greatest anxiety to come to the question, to go at large into any reply to the arguments against his motion. He would now, however, remark upon several of them; and in doing so he thought it right to observe, that he had made an alteration in the Resolution, as it was originally proposed. It did not, however, at all alter the principle, but merely modified the terms in which it was expressed. The alteration which he was sure could not meet with the disapprobation of the opponents of the measure, was to this effect: That the House would take measures for restoring to the Catholics the privileges of the constitution, subject, however, to certain exceptions, and under such regulations as might be deemed necessary to support the Protestant establishment in church and state. This was a suggestion proposed by a right hon. gentleman, with whom, in principle, he completely agreed: and he did most willingly comply with it, not as any dereliction of the principle, but as a modification of the terms in which it was conceived. With regard to the church of Scotland and the people of that communion, they seemed to be perfectly acquiescent in the wisdom of parliament on this question. It was of great importance to his motion that he could say that the Presbytery of Scotland were not hostile to the measure of concession and conciliation. The Presbytery of Edinburgh were, indeed, against the Catholics, but that of Glasgow was favourable; and he might conclude from their not having petitioned, that the great body of the church of Scotland was friendly to the Catholic cause. Nor could it be maintained, that the church of England, generally speaking, was against the principle, though many of its members had been more active in opposing the measure, than the Scottish clergy had been; and though it might be granted that many of the clergy were not placable, yet it did not follow as a truth
 1198 1199 1200 1201 1202 1203 1204 Charles Abbot 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210
 Mr. Lushington  said, that as perhaps after the Speaker had left the chair, he should have no opportunity of delivering his sentiments on the important question then be-
 1195 1196 1197
 Mr. Creevey  intimated his intention, in consequence of the important business which stood for that night, to postpone until that day week, his motion relative to the second paymaster of the forces, and his deputy. l s d
 Mr. Dickinson  wished to ask the hon. baronet whether the loaf which he had produced had been sent from the Ilchester or the Bath jail.
 Mr. Dickinson  wished to know whether the hon. baronet had inquired into the truth of the allegations in the petitions which he had laid before the House?
 Mr. Dickinson  recalled to the recollection of an hon. baronet a petition which he had on a former occasion presented to the House, from some persons confined in Ilchester gaol, for a riot at Bath; and who, in their petition, complained of ill-treatment. He also recalled to the recollection of the hon. baronet the circumstance of his having produced a loaf in the House, which had been sent from the prisoners confined in some jail. He wished to know whether the hon. baronet meant to proceed any further with those complaints.
 Mr. Wilberforce  had listened to all that had been said with attention, and with a sincere desire to receive all the information possible on this important subject. He should vote for the resolution now before the committee. He, however, was anxious to make some few observations on the policy of concession to the Catholics. If it had fallen to his lot to choose the method of proceeding on this question he should have preferred, with the hon. baronet, to refer the state of the laws in question to a select committee. This he conceived to be the more desirable, as it must have been observed by all gentlemen who had looked into the subject, how different were the statements which had been propagated, for while some represented that the amount of the disabilities imposed on the Catholics, amounted only to exclusion from 32 great offices, others asserted that the disabilities were numerous, and met the Catholics at every turn and in every line of life, and entering into the most common affairs of life, irritated those whose political power they did not serve materially to abridge. This measure also would have tended to a calm consideration of the subject, as every one would know the extent of the grievances under which their Catholic brethren laboured. He did not, however, object to the present motion, because the appointment of a committee was not precluded in a future stage. The doctrine of the Catholics, he did not think could with advantage be referred to
 1239 1240 1241 nolumus leges Anglia mutari
 Sir J. C. Hippisley  rose and said: * data * 1216 primâ facie 1217 1218 1219 1220 Regium Exequatur Placitum 1221 1222 1223 1224 and 1225 1226 1227
 Sir John Newport  said, the right hon. gentleman was incorrect in stating, that the Roman Catholics, in their petitions, expressed a determination not to accede to any regulation whatever. Now, if he had read those petitions right, no such assertion was contained in them. They prayed, that every remaining penal statute might be repealed; that, while they conducted themselves as loyal subjects, they might be placed on a level with their Protestant brethren; and that no disability should be inflicted on them, in consequence of their adherence to the tenets of the Catholic church. Now, in the correct sense of the word, the Catholic certainly did want complete emancipation—but this was perfectly compatible with every necessary regulation—and the friends of the Roman Catholics, in moving for the repeal of the disabilities, were fully impressed with the conviction, that such a measure was completely consistent with the security of church and state.
 1234 Catholic Board, March 1235 1236 1237
 Lord Milton  and Mr. Plunkett rose at the same time, but the former was declared to be in possession of the committee. He said, that he had ventured thus to occupy the time of the committee, because his sentiments on this subject were not similar to those of most of the gentlemen with whom he should concur in his vote. He could not but premise, that in his opinion, the right hon. mover had been somewhat hardly used as to the course which he had deemed it right to propose for adoption. The main question before them had his warmest concurrence. As to what had been said by the right hon. the Speaker, it was the duty of that right hon. member to propose (as this was one of the few occasions on which he had it in his power) resolutions containing the substance of his opinion, that many laws operating to the disadvantage of the Catholics, might be abrogated. As to securities he thought, that the best securities were the good will and affection of the governed; all others were built on an unsound foundation, and were not worth contending for. It behoved those, however, who were of a contrary opinion, to submit their securities to the House. Conceiving, as he did, that no securities were necessary
 1238
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that his right hon. friend and himself had last night stated all that they could recollect on the subject of the hon. gentleman's inquiry. For several years a considerable number of barracks had been in progress in Ireland, in order to relieve the civil community from the great pressure of the troops, and to save to the public the expence of hiring buildings for the purpose. Several of those barracks were to have been completed by the end of 1812; although he was not aware whether they had actually been so completed. Another description of barracks was also in such forwardness in Ireland, as to be expected to be brought to a completion in the present year. The effect of agreeing to the hon. gentleman's amendment would be, that these works, so begun, would be suspended; and that the money already expended would be totally lost to the public. If the hon. gentleman wished for more detailed accounts on the subject he was sure that his hon. friend would be very ready to produce them.
 Mr. C. Grant , jun. seconded the motion in the following terms:—
 Mr. W. Wynne  expressed his entire concurrence with the Address; and he trusted that those parts of Europe which had been so long held down by the tyranny of France would now have an opportunity of restoring themselves. For himself, he felt peculiar satisfaction in the defalcation of the coerced troops of Buonaparté, even in the very day of battle: he drew the happiest augury from that fact. It shewed a distrust which, he had no doubt, spread from one battalion to another, and pervaded the whole army. He expressed his entire approbation of the sentiments of moderation displayed in the conclusion
 42
 Lord Morpeth .—I rise, Sir, to inform the House, that on an early day after the recess I shall submit a motion upon certain passages in your Speech, delivered at the close of the last session at the bar of the House of Lords.
 Lord Castlereagh  wished that the noble lord had not named so distant a period; as, if the Chair had transgressed the line of its duty, it would be desirable that the question should be discussed as soon as possible.
 Lord Morpeth  replied, that he could not well name an earlier day: as many members were absent, and especially those belonging to the country which the noble lord represented, and who were particularly interested in the question.
 Mr. Speaker —In rising to second the Address of the noble lord, I perceive with satisfaction that it is not necessary for me to use arguments in its support. I flatter myself that as to its principal topics there will be no different of opinion. In the situation, therefore, in which I am placed, I feel myself called upon, not to persuade a unanimity which, I trust, already exists; but rather to give expression to the general sentiment, and to participate in the general feelings of the House and of the Country. I beg therefore, to offer my congratulations upon the prosperous situation of this country, upon the internal tranquillity of our provinces, upon the restoration of commerce, and upon, the abundant harvest with which it has pleased
 30 31 32 33 Quod si immatura manebat Mors natum, cæsis Volscorum millibus ante, Ducentem in Latium Teucros, cecidisse juvabit. 34 35 36 37 38
 The Speaker .—Before I state the question, I hope I may be permitted, as so strong an allusion has been made to the speech I delivered at the bar of the House of Lords, last session, to say, that if that speech should be, at any time, taken into consideration by this House, I trust I shall be able to satisfy the House that what I did say was perfectly justified and warranted.
 Mr. Whitbread  spoke nearly as follows:—I do not rise. Sir, with any view to disturb, the unanimity of the vote to which the House will shortly come; but rather, if that were at all necessary, to add my cordial approbation to the Address moved by the noble lord. There may, indeed, be one or two exceptions to my entire approval of that Address, but they are not of sufficient weight to induce me to dissent from it in my vote. I will freely own, I did not expect, on an occasion like the present, to find, in the Speech of his royal highness the Prince Regent, that moderation of sentiment, and that, freedom from any intoxication of language which it displays; and so far, therefore, the manner of it has my approbation. Nor will I be betrayed into any debate, by touching upon several topics introduced by the noble lord who moved the Address, and by the hon. and eloquent member who seconded it; but at the same time it would be unmanly in me, and unbecoming that deep and rooted conviction which I feel, if I did not assert my firm disbelief of one thing, in particular, that has been advanced; that the deliverance of Europe, and the splendid events so recently achieved, are to be ascribed to the policy begun by a minister now no more, and to the following up of that policy, by his successors. Great, I admit, that ministers was;
 39 40 41
 Earl Compton  rose. He observed, that in now addressing the House, he had not the same apology to plead which gentlemen commonly had to whose lot it fell to move addresses in answer to speeches from the throne, having, on former occasions, taken the liberty of trespassing on the time of the House. The task, however, which he had to perform on the present occasion, he felt was infinitely lighter and easier than such tasks, in general were—much easier and lighter, he believed, than from the posture of our affairs, both abroad and at home, it had been for a great many years past. Every part of the task which he had to discharge, was of an agreeable kind, except that single allusion with which the speech of his royal highness the Prince Regent set out—namely, the unfortunate continuance of the distressing malady with which his Majesty was afflicted—a calamity which not only every gentleman in that House, but every person throughout the kingdom, must concur with his Royal Highness in deploring. In every other circumstance to which he should have to allude, he felt, and he was satisfied every one in that House would concur with him in feeling, there was room only for congratulation; and that the subjects to which, by the Speech, our attention was called, were calculated solely to inspire gratitude for the present, and hope and assurance for the future. This, he was certain he might say with respect to every step that the allies in Saxony had taken, with the exception only of the first attack upon Dresden. As the House was already fully acquainted with all the glorious details which had been lately received from the allied armies on the continent, he should not attempt entering into a recapitulation of them; but should content himself with saying, what he was convinced the fact would bear him out in asserting, that, previous to the last great battle, Buonaparté must have lost not fewer than 100,000 men. Last year, France, Austria, Bavaria, and Prussia, were all united in one common cause; now, the three powers last mentioned were united with Russia against France, and in support
 24 "Non tali auxilio, nec defensoribus istis Tempus eget."— 25 26 27 28 29
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  heartily seconded the motion; declaring, that in his opinion no case called more loudly for the interference of the legislature than that of the borough of Hellestone; the corruption and profligacy of which had been carried on so long, that those who were guilty of that corruption and profligacy were scarcely sensible of the crimes they committed.
 Mr. G. H. Summer , in pursuance of a notice which he gave on Saturday, rose to make a motion; the adoption of which could not, in his opinion, be postponed, consistently with the dignity of the House, and of the right hon. gentleman who sat in the chair. In the present stage of the business, there was but one step which he thought it possible to take; namely, to endeavour to put the House in possession of the document on which a noble lord (Morpeth) had intimated that his observations would be made. Those, on the one hand, who thought with the noble lord, that the speech made by the Speaker at the bar of the House of Lords, at the close of the last session, contained matter liable to animadversion, and those, on the other, who were of opinion that it was free from blame, or even entitled to praise, must equally feel the impossibility of discussing the subject, until an authentic copy of the speech itself should be on the table. Al-
 51 52
 Mr. Rose  detailed the history of the proceedings on the speech made by sir Fletcher Norton in 1777, The printing of that speech by no means implied the approbation of the House. It was made on the 7th of May. On the 9th of May, only two days alter, came on the question of its merits; and although the thanks of the House of Commons were voted to sir F. Norton for the speech, yet the discussion afforded abundant proof, that if, in the present instance, the House followed the precedent of 1777, they would not be precluded from expressing a free opinion on the speech in question.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that, having been so pointedly called upon by the hon. mover, he must be permitted to say a few words on a subject in which, as he had stated on giving his notice, the honour and dignity of parliament were so deeply involved. With respect to the inquiries made by the hon member for Surrey, he was apprehensive that he could not furnish the hon. gentleman with information that would prove satisfactory to him. He was not at present prepared to lay before the House the scope and extent, much less the frame and construction, of the motion that it was his intention to submit to them. This, however, be was prepared to say; that, if he was rightly informed of the nature of the Speech made by the Speaker at the bar of the House of Lords, in his view of
 54
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that the House and the right hon. gentleman in the chair were, upon this occasion, placed in a very painful predicament, and, highly respecting the character of the noble lord, he would appeal to his candour, whether it was not due to the House, and to justice, to bring forward with all practicable expedition, a question so materially affecting the character of the chair; whether it would be reconcilable with common fairness to allow a charge so derogatory to the Speaker, as the transgression of his duty to remain suspended over his head so long as the noble lord had mentioned. If it were only the object of the noble lord to discuss the Speaker's performance of his duty, or attention to privilege, that was a
 61 62
 Mr. C. W. Wynne  said, that this was an important subject, on which the fullest information should be procured. He differed in some degree from the hon. seconder of the motion. Its chief object should be, whether the speech of the Speaker should go forth to the public as conveying the sentiments of the whole House. He agreed, that the possession of the document itself was necessary; and wished, that, if it should arise from future practice, that the custom of addressing the throne should be allowed, the speech made by the Speaker on that occasion should be entered on the Journals of the House of Commons, in order to become a fair and open subject of discussion. He would request the hon. mover to add the words "for the use of the members" to his motion.
 Mr. Abercrombie  would not have risen, had it not been for one expression, which the thought should not go uncontradicted. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that the motion on the Speaker's speech ought to have been made at his return from the House of Peers, and not kept suspended for mention over his head. Was he ignorant that this was an utter impossibility, as this House no longer existed as the Commons House when the Speaker had just been attending at the prorogation of parliament? It was impossible that it should have been bound by any notice his noble friend might have given, and such conduct would have been quite un-parliamentary. He thought the charge of want of candour and of justice brought against his noble friend totally unfounded. The decision to which the House was called was most important. If it should be found that the Speaker had acted consistently with precedent and principle, all of course must approve his conduct. If he was deficient in precedent but right in principle it would become a consideration whether his act should be sanctioned by the approbation of parliament, and
 64
 Lord Castlereagh , on rising, in pursuance of a notice which he had given on this subject, alluded to the happy time in which he had this pleasant duty to perform; and said, in calling the attention of the House to this question, he was persuaderl that no doubt remained in the minds of any of them, that the battle of Victoria was that great crisis which decided the question of the military possession of the peninsula in favour of the allies since this great event, he might congratulate parliament on a series of successes on the part of the allied armies, which had placed the war in a situation not less promising
 65 66 67 "That the Thanks of this House be given to Field Marshal the Marquis of Wellington, knight of the most noble order of the Garter, for the consummate ability, indefatigable exertion, and admirable judgment displayed by him in the operations which succeeded the battle of Vittoria; by which the enemy have been compelled to abandon the western provinces of Spain, and the allied army finally established on the frontier of France."
 The Speaker  said, I hope I may be allowed to make a short observation before I put the question—(A cry of hear hear!)—I shall forbear, at present, from offering any thing in justification of my conduct, because the consideration of that question is not now before you—but I am prepared to assure you, that I feel the most confident Persuasion of being able to satisfy this House, that I hope in no respect whatever transgressed the duties of my office.
 Mr. B. Bathurst  observed, that the noble lord's conduct was calculated to place the House in a very awkward situation; for the noble lord had distinctly alledged, that the Speech of the right hon. gentleman in the chair, on the occasion alluded, to, was extremely questionable; and yet he proposed to postpone, to a distant day, the decision of a charge so materially affecting the dignity of the House, and the character of the right hon. gentleman who held the high office of presiding over its deliberations. Now he would put it to the House, whether it would be fitting or fair to pursue such a line of proceeding towards any individual whatever, whose conduct might be brought under the consideration of that or of any candid assembly? On this occasion, he felt himself at liberty to urge that which he was before prevented from stating, when he had endeavoured, perhaps irregularly, to press upon the attention of the House. But although at that time, namely, when the noble lord gave notice of his motion, he (Mr. B.) was properly interrupted, yet it must be in the recollection of the noble lord, and others from whom the interruption proceeded, that a practice had long prevailed, of putting questions to individual members when there was no motion whatever before the House. He therefore, although no doubt,
 55 56 57
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that there was no question before the House.
 Mr. sumner  said, he hid no hesitation in stating, that his sole and exclusive object was, to bring before the House the document on which a noble member had declared it to be his intention, at a future period, to observe. He repeated, that this step appeared to him to be called for by the honour and dignity of parliament. At the same time, it would be but fair and candid to add, that in conformity to usage on such occasions, the Speech must be entered on the Journals of the House. That proceeding, however. Would by no means imply the approbation of the House of its contents.
 Mr. Sumner  was proceeding to explain his object, when
 Mr. Tierney , notwithstanding the precedent adduced by the hon. gentleman, still contended, that the admission into the Journals, of a speech by the Speaker, had always been deemed a mark of the approbation of the House. Without intending the slightest personal disrespect to the Speaker, he must protest against this being considered to be the case in the present instance. For his part, he was at a loss to conceive what inconvenience could be occasioned by the production of the Speech as a simple document.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know, whether the hon. mover meant that the Speech should be printed with the votes, or merely for the information of the House? If the former, it should be recollected, that that was always considered as a mark of approbation, and he was sure the hon. mover did not mean that the Speech of the Speaker should be approved until it had been considered. If it was intended merely to print the Speech for the purpose of putting it into the hands of members, to that proposition no objection could apply.
 Mr. Tierney  said, "I have heard much of assertions, that the notice of my noble friend's motion has put the Speaker in a painful situation; whereas, in point of fact you, the Speaker, have put yourself in that situation, by a speech which you thought proper to make at the close of the last session of parliament; which speech, in my opinion, and in that of many thinking men, deserves the serious attention and consideration of this House; for in that speech you uttered an assertion, bearing an interpretation calculated to excite pain, not only among those who voted for the Catholic Bill in the course of last session, but among four millions of your fellow-subjects; who having been placed in a state of painful delicacy, for four months, during which there was no opportunity to call upon you for any explanation, it cannot be too much for you to wait for two months, until the Irish members, who are most interested in the question, are able to attend this House"—Adverting to the conduct of lord Morpeth, Mr. Tierney maintained, that it was marked by peculiar delicacy and candour. The noble lord had not attempted to excite any prepossession or prejudice against the right hon. gentleman in the chair; nor had he uttered any thing that could be even construed into an accusation, in the harsh sense of the word. All his noble friend alleged was, that the speech of the right hon. gentleman was such as deserved the consideration—as ought to
 63
 Mr. Bankes  expressed himself to be distinctly of the same opinion. It was not to be inferred, because the ordinary mode of inserting the Speech in the Journals could not be departed from, that the approbation of the House was thereby implied. The Speech made in 1777, at the bar of the House of Lords, by sir Fletcher Norton, was printed with the votes; but was that considered to imply the appro-
 53
 Mr. Bankes  observed, that the circumstances attendant on the Bill of last session for securing purity of election in the borough of Hellestone must be fresh in the recollection of the House. Having passed in the House of Commons, it had been carried to the House of Lords at a period not long before the termination of the session. This it was, perhaps, which
 50
 Mr. Ryder  complained that when there had been an opportunity three months ago of taking into consideration whether the sentiments expressed by the Speaker were of a questionable nature or not, the change had been so long suspended. He would ask, whether this was consistent with that bandour and justice which he knew regulated the conduct of the noble lord (he might say his noble friend) in private and public life? Such a mode he though entirely unprecedented. If the question did not relate to the first authority in that House, would the noble lord, or any other member, consider it consistent with justice and liberality to keep a charge so long suspended over any individual, without calling for a discussion? He was confident that no imputation of undue motives would be cast on the Speaker's conduct, and protested against the method pursued, as totally unsupported by precedent.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the course which had been taken by the hon member for Surrey on this occasion was quite unprecedented. It was indeed, he believed, the very first time that a notice of motion had been interfered with in such a manner as the hon. mover had thought proper to adopt with respect to that of the noble lord, who might in fact have brought forward his motion without any notice at all, or at least without any notice until very near the period at which he proposed to bring his motion before the House. Upon what just ground then could the noble lord be censured for the line he had
 58 59 60
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that whatever prospects might open favourable to retrenchments in our necessarily great public expenditure, the House might be assured, would be readily embraced by government. In no preceding year had the difficulties attending the due distribution of our naval forces been greater than during the last year. If we had not had assistance of the Russian fleet, he did not believe that we could have made it effectual for all purposes. That we had no formidable enemy actually at sea, was among the number of the existing difficulties. The House and the country ought to know, that, notwithstanding the immense pressure which had been made on the enemy's naval resources for many preceding years yet he had not relaxed his maritime efforts; and that he had still fleets in most of his leading arsenals, ready for sea. He had, in fact, been accumulating his marine forces by rapid strides. The demand on the American station had been prodigious. The Baltic had also been a great pressure on our means, in consequence of its vicinity to military operations. We might, but for our naval exertions there, have seen, not a part, but the whole of the army of Demark put in the motion under the direction of France. He trusted, that the House would feel, that government would not necessarily keep up our naval forces; if they shewed such a disposition, it was in the
 73
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would say a single word on the subject of reduction in consequence of the accommodation of different branches of his expenditure by the enemy. He thought the hon. member had been better informed respecting the state of the French finances, than to have made this assertion. His opinions might be corrected, by adverting to the published statements of them. It was quite clear, in this view, that France had not lost sight of her marine, nor had neglected any means of supporting it. All that we now proposed was, to maintain our marine at the same rate as before, should it be necessary. At any time previous to the Appropriation Act, the House had it in its power to make such alterations as it saw fitting.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that this question could only be discussed fairly at a future time. It should not have been opened up now. Whatever might be thought of particulars, the general exertions had enabled as to contend in America without any prejudice to operations in Europe.
 Mr. A. Baring , considering the numerous, but, he believed, necessary expences, which the state of affairs imposed on the country, was surprized that no relief was to be afforded from the naval service; but that, on the contrary, there was an excess in that department. It was with regret that he found this motion made at so very early a period of the session, for the service of 1814. He would not prejudge on the necessity of the vote; but in the present unsettled state of affairs, he could see no necessity for urging it immediately. Looking at the map of Europe, and considering what our navy had at present to do, he could not conceive the necessity for so large an armament. In France, he observed that, according to the pressure of circumstances, some branches of public expenditure were so proportioned as to assist the necessary demands incurred by others, which were of a more exigent nature: whereas we continued to keep up full charges in all branches, as it appeared to him, unnecessarily. For years past, we had had nothing like a formidable enemy at sea; and at the period of the battle of Trafalgar we had 10,000 seamen less than now. We had a few years ago all the ports of the peninsula against us and we had the Baltic to guard, besides our own operations against enemies' colonies. There was now a considerable prospect of our clearing the ports of Holland. He would venture to say, that there was no man, with tolerable information, who followed up the conduct of our naval administration for the last year, but must be surprised at the little that had been done effectually on the North American coast. On that subject, he should not then enter particularly; but, judging from the use made of our great navy last year, he saw no reason for giving to the Admiralty Such great means. Was it meant to be contended, that this immense armament was required on the American stations, for assuredly no where else could it be necessary? From the information he and many other individuals had received, he was inclined to think, that the force already on the other side of the Atlantic, if properly applied, was more than equal to the
 71
 Mr. A. Baring  said, that the enemy's fleets might not require to be watched by a fleet equal to theirs; but our numerous force on the American coast had done nothing essential, and the service appeared to have been much neglected. That was his decided opinion from all he heard respecting it, which had been from many quarters. Whoever was in fault, the navy had been neglected. It did not follow from what he said, that he was a good admiral. All he pretended to say was, that the force employed had been very ill directed to its objects.
 Mr. A. Baring  said, with respect to the point of time, that the House very seldom sat so early as they did this session. The motion might have been postponed till the matter was better understood. The 30 or 40 vessels in the Chesapeake to which he had alluded, had disgraced the country by their ineffectiveness, or rather by their injurious mode of warfare. All the arguments used on the opposite side would apply as well to the extension of one naval force to 150,000 seamen. Surely the fleet in the Scheldt could not be in a state of such perfect readiness for sea, and he doubted much whether that at Toulon was. The question with him was, whether, at present, greater exertions could not be made by land, through retrenchments at sea. Next year he thought that France could not be able to do much at
 74
 Mr. Bankes  brought up a Bill for securing the freedom of election in this borough; which was read a second time on Wednesday, after some observa-
 76
 Mr. Croker  rose, and stated, that not long ago the French fleet in the mouth of the Scheldt amounted to 16 sail of the line, to all appearance ready for service. In the Texel there were not less than five, sometimes ten, in the same condition of preparation. Although some might believe that the enemy had withdrawn many of his seamen from his fleets, yet it would have been an improper confidence on the part of government, on a public rumour, so as to reduce our armaments as to permit them, so near to our own coasts, to move about, insufficiently watched and guarded. The hon. Member's opinion concerning the Toulon fleet was monstrous; since it was but recently that government was accused of neglect in that quarter; of having a naval force inferior to that of the enemy; particularly on the occasion and of L'Emeriau's once coming out to sea, and returning to harbour. Did not an enemy's force of 50 sail of the line require watching? If the Admiralty were the victims of those illusions of the hon. Member, they would indeed become liable to reproach. As to the time at which the motion was now made, it became necessary to make it in the last month of the last year's expenditure. It was also necessary that our brave seamen should be paid and fed: but then it might be said, "put it off till January." Why the necessity of this motion was among the other important reasons, why parliament was assembled so soon this session! But all that was now intended or proposed was, to vote one half of what was wanted. All the civil part of the navel expenditure, new buildings, repairs, and other items, on which a difference of opinion might fairly arise, were kept back for the period of the ordinary estimates, three or four months hence. Government might have adopted another mode, by proposing a rateable sum, for a few months' expenditure; but they had not done so, because they must then have forced upon the House, at the early period, the whole affairs of the naval department, to be printed and voted. It was thought much preferable to ask now, for no more than what appeared necessary for the payment of our seamen, and the expenses of our ships actually at sea, leaving all the rest for future consideration and discussion.
 75
 Mr. W. Dundas  rose, to move for the number of seamen for the ensuing year. He observed, that the naval expences had exceeded in two branches—that of vic-
 70
 Mr. W. Dundas  would not now enter into any vindication of the Admiralty; but if any direct motion of censure were hereafter produced against the board, he should be happy to meet and to refute it. Until proof of negligence or inability were adduced, he knew the House of Commons too well, to think that they would condemn. With regard to the early period at which this vote was brought forward, the hon. gentleman would find, on consulting the Journals, that it was always the first vote of supply of the session, and he (Mr. Dundas) should have been deficient in his duty if he had delayed it longer. As to the charge, that 140,000 seamen, were not at this time necessary, the hon. gentleman had answered himself; since he acknowledged that the navy must not be disbanded; and because we had at present the superiority on land, were we to lessen our pre-eminence at sea? In his view no policy could be worse, than that because a peace might perhaps take place, it would be fit to reduce our naval strength. If at any, future period
 72
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no delay whatever had been occasioned, in consequence of the non-insertion of the amount of the judge's salary in the Insolvent Act. When an application on that subject was made, he was directed to recommend to the crown, that such a salary should be forthwith ordered, as the nature of the duties attached to the office might appear to demand.
 Major general George Anson  being come to the House, Mr. Speaker acquainted him with the Resolutions of the House of the 3d day of December, 1812, and of the 7th day of July last, respecting his services in the battles of Salamanca and Vittoria; and Mr. Speaker gave him the Thanks of the House accordingly, as followeth:
 Lord Castlereagh , in rising to propose his plan for the new arrangements in the army, said, he should not dwell upon the expediency, at the present moment, of giving every possible efficiency to the disposable force of the country. On that subject
 84 impetus momentum 85 86 * 87 88 89 90 esprit des corps 91 92 93
 Lord Castlereagh  stated, that the arrear of which he had spoken, was not on the two last years alone, but on all the time during which the system of draughting from the militia had been established—what the precise amount of this arrear was, he could not exactly say, but he believed it to amount to 6 or 7,000 men. The difference between the militia-men serving abroad, and those enlisting in the line for a limited period, was, that the militia-men would retain their privileges, while those who enlisted in the line would be on the footing of other soldiers. The exact time which would be considered as a campaign would be regulated by the Commander in Chief, according to the general acceptation of the term. The period during which the militia-men who had volunteered for foreign service might be called upon to serve abroad, would be until six months after the signing of a definitive treaty of peace; at which time they would be disbanded, even if their services as militia-men had not expired.
 Lord Castlereagh  accepted the support which the hon. gentleman proffered, and which was not the less valuable for the conditions which were annexed to it. He hoped, however, that this general spirit of amity with which the House regarded the measure would not prevent the most strict examination of the details.
 Alderman C. Smith  expressed a hope that no time would be lost in extending the benefit of the Act to those for whom it was intended. If only twenty cases were heard  per diem,
 Mr. H. Addington  wished to put the worthy alderman right on the point to which he had last adverted The circumstance of no salary having been inserted in the Act, had not occasioned any delay. When it came to the knowledge of the Secretary of State for the home department, he immediately stated the fact to the noble lord at the head of the Treasury, and the latter took upon himself the responsibility of paying an adequate salary; as he entertained no doubt that parliament would ultimately sanction his conduct.
 Mr. H. Addington  did not rise to oppose the Petition. Those who had a right to expect any benefit under the Insolvent Act, might reasonably be supposed to feel much disappointment at its not having been carried into effect; and it was natural for them to think that the blame originated with the persons to whom its execution was confided:—A report had gone abroad, the source of which he could not imagine, that a noble relation of his (viscount Sidmouth), the secretary for the home department, had been the cause of the delay complained of. Now, in point of fact, no blame could be attached to that nobleman. When he said this, he by no means wished to shelter the conduct of his noble relative from enquiry; for he would undertake to prove and demonstrate to any gentleman, that every possible effort had been made by that noble lord in the execution of his official
 78
 Mr. Whitbread  said, across the table, that there were some parts of the noble lord's (Castlereagh's) statement, which needed a little explanation. His lordship had not
 94
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that it might be better that this examination should take place after the Bill had been though a committee, and the blanks filled up; in which state it might be given to the members.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that as to the plan in general, this was not the time to stand still; and, to make any efficient exertion, a large additional force was necessary, which could be supplied from this source alone. I support, therefore, (said Mr. W.) the measure which has been proposed, in the just hope, that these increased means will only be applied to their legitimate object; and that no new project of ambition on our part, or on the part of our
 95
 Mr. Lushington  reported from the Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider of the supply granted to his Majesty, the Resolutions which they had directed him to report to the House; and the same were read, and agreed to by the House, are as follow: l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l, l. s. l. s.
 Mr. Kenrick  said, he felt very great satisfaction in seeing that Mr. Serjeant Palmer (one of his oldest professional friends, than whom a more honourable or a more learned man was not to be found in Westminster-hall) was by the fair and candid statement of the learned gentleman (sir S. Romilly) absolved from blame. After the observations made by that learned gentleman, he would only say, that the consideration of fixing a salary for Mr. Serjeant Palmer had not delayed the measure a single hour.
 Mr. Kenrick  said, when the Insolvent Debtors' Bill was before the House, he had distinctly stated, that, until the operation of the Bill was known, and the duty which was likely to devolve on the individual appointed to administer its provisions was fairly understood, it was utterly impossible to estimate the just amount of the salary to be granted. He had also
 79
 Sir Samuel Romilly  was very glad that the learned gentleman had made the statement which he had just heard, as it did away a gross mistake into which many persons had fallen. It was said, that the Bill had passed through that House, without any salary being annexed to the situation of judge, and that this circumstance was not observed at the time. Now this was not the fact. No neglect could be attributed to the House. Gentlemen were perfectly aware, that no salary was mentioned. They felt, that, as the duties of the office were quite uncertain, it was not possible to fix the salary at that moment. It appeared to them, that the same system might be pursued, which had been before acted upon in other cases; for instance, in the appointment of commissioners—that the question of remuneration should not be previously settled, but should be left for decision after the duties of the office were ascertained. They were of opinion, that the best thing they could do was, to leave the Bill in all respects as it was introduced into the other House, where, they supposed, it had received the tacit approbation of all the great law authorities.
 Sir S. Romilly  said, he felt it proper to present the Petition of these individuals, as soon as possible; but as it contained some imputations against a learned gentleman (Mr. Palmer), who was not a member of that House, and therefore had not an opportunity of defending himself, he thought that he should have acted wrong, if he had introduced the Petition before he had communicated its contents to that gentleman. He therefore delayed presenting it for 24 hours; and in the interim he stated to Mr. Palmer the allegations contained in the Petition.—Mr. Palmer observed, in answer, that as soon as he was appointed to the situation, he applied for a proper place in which he might hold his court. It was necessary that it should be in a public situation, where all creditors of persons claiming under the Act should have an opportunity of attending. Some difficulty arose in procuring a place of this description, but the Guildhall of Westminster was ultimately appointed for the purpose. He had then determined on hearing twenty petitions each day, till the whole were disposed of—the total number intending to claim being 1350. He fete it a duty incumbent on him to make this statement; at the same time he thought it was necessary to present the Petition, as it was of so much importance to a great number of debtors, both with relation to themselves and to their wives and families.
 Lieutenant general sir Thomas Picton,  knight of the most honourable order of the Bath, being come to the House, Mr. Speaker acquainted him with the Resolutions of the House of the 7th of July last, and of the 8th instant, respecting his services in the battle of Vittoria, and in the subsequent operations of the allied armies in Spain; and Mr. Speaker gave him the Thanks of the House accordingly, as followeth: 82
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the tax on sugar, consisting at present of three distinct duties, was productive of great inconvenience. At present, also, the drawbacks on sugar exported were charged on the consolidated fund, which caused an apparent diminution of that fund, and a correspondent increase on the sugar duties. This, though of no disadvantage to the public, produced a prejudicial inaccuracy in the accounts. He, therefore, gave notice, that he should during the present session propose some measure to remedy these defects.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  moved, that the sums of 10,500,000 l. l.
 Mr. Horner  said, he held in his hand a petition similar to four or five which he had before presented, not only
 96 "That during the time the Act was pending, which passed in 1811, for the relief of Insolvent Debtors in Great Britain, a clause was introduced extending the benefits thereof to persons confined for debt in the Isle of Man, which clause, upon consideration thereof in the House of Lords, was withdrawn; and that, in the year 1812, a Petition was presented to this House on behalf of the prisoners confined for debt in the Isle of Man, praying relief, but which Petition was withdrawn; upon an understanding that, during the ensuring summer recess, such steps would be taken by the Manks legislature as would render any further application to parliament unnecessary; and that, in pursuance thereof, the petitioners were in have hopes an Act would have passed so as to have relieved them before this period; and that the Manks legislature had passed last year such a Bill for their relief as could not receive the royal assent; and that, thought his Majesty's subjects in the most distant parts of the globe have been relieved by the Act of last session, the petitioners are still in the same unhappy situation, some having been confined upwards of seven years; and praying, that the House will take their case into consideration, and grant such relief as to them may seem meet."
 Mr. Lushington  reported from the Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider further of the Supply granted to his Majesty, the Resolution which they had directed him to report to the House; and the same was read, and agreed to by the House; and is as followeth: l. 97 l l.
 Mr. Lushington  reported from the Committee of Ways and Means, the Resolutions which they had directed him to report to the House; and the same were read, and agreed to by the House, and are as followeth: s.
 Mr. Baring  wished to know why no statement was submitted to parliament of the sums expended on the new Customhouse?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, no application was made to parliament for sums for the improvements at the Customhouse, and consequently no statements were laid before the House.
 Mr. Baring  said, the outlays were made from the customs, and consequently from the public revenue of the country. So important an article of expenditure ought to have the sanction of the House in some way or other.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remembered more of the name than of the circumstances of the case. The matter had been referred to Mr. Howard, and the augmentation refused on the opinion delivered by that gentleman; The emigrants came into this country under various circumstances; and were the allowances to be regulated anew, a very different distribution would probably be made; for some who came first over were treated with a liberality that, if extended to all, would have entailed a very heavy burden on us and posterity.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, one great reason for making this outlay without waiting for the sanction of parliament was, to prevent the public service being impeded.
 Mr. C. W. Wynne  asked, if any delay was to take place after the Bill had gone through the committee, for the purpose of discussing the principle of the measure; as much would depend upon the detail.
 Lord Castlereagh  saw no occasion for any delay The House would be best able to judge of the course it ought to adopt, after the Bill came out of the committee. He thought the matter so simple, that no difference of opinion could exist, so as to require a reconsideration of the measure in detail. If so, however, any minor parts would be open to consideration in a future stage; and the measure would be better appropriated, and equally open to remark, after the committee, than it was now.
 Mr. C. W. Wynne  said, he considered, as every gentleman, he presumed, must do, the present measure to be utterly subversive of the first principle of the militia force, intended as it was for the internal defence of the country. He did not, however, say, that this, was to be, weighed against the advantages which were likely to result to this country and to the world at large, from the adoption of this measure
 115 116
 Lord Castlereagh  agreed, that the hon. gentleman had stated the case fairly, though he presumed to think he had gone into it more in detail than was at present necessary. He begged, however, to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, who seemed to think that it would have been better had he confined his measure to one of the two plans, instead of extending it to both. He (lord Castlereagh), however, considered the second part of the plan as auxiliary to the former part, rather than otherwise. He believed the hon. gentleman had over-estimated the influence of the officers over the men. Those who knew the militiamen in general, best knew that they were not above a certain measure influenced by the advice of their officers. He did not see how it could have been possible, preserving due regard for the feelings of the officers in the army, to have introduced among them officers from the militia, with higher rank than that of captain; and the bounty already given to enlist from the militia into the army was so nearly equal to that now proposed, that he was afraid the present measure would be ineffectual, without some supplemental or extraordinary inducements, such as those now held out. If he had not held out the different species of inducements proposed by the present measure, he could not assure himself that he should be able to raise the force he expected. — He felt disposed to keep the bounties low, particularly as it was necessary to preserve a distinction between the bounties for the army and militia; but on the other hand, there were advantages attached to the militia, of which if the men now in that force were to be deprived by extending their service, he could not expect that they would be
 117
 Mr. C. Wynne  rose to suggest an alteration. He thought, when it was considered
 118
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that any alteration, such as proposed by the hon. member, would tend to destroy the militia, itself; a probability which, if it existed, would alone have discouraged him (lord C.) from proposing or prosecuting his measure. His object certainly was, not to destroy, but to keep alive, the militia system; and in securing that object, there was no fear of impairing the effective strength of the army. It was to be remembered, that there were in every militia regiment a certain proportion of men who were not fit to go on foreign service; and he felt quite certain also, that there were some officers who, from obvious reasons, would not be inclined to volunteer. It was his wish, therefore, to consult at once the fair freedom of the service, and the preservation of the militia, which he believed to be interwoven with the fundamental securities of the country. As the clause originally stood, it left an alternative, between three-fourths of the militia of a county, or of a single regiment; but he had now struck out that alternative, and confined the proportion only to single regiments.
 Mr. Wynne  suggested, that a proportion of four-fifths of each regiment would be more likely to render the clause as effective as possible. 119
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that many hon. members seemed to be of opinion, that the proposed measure was not sufficiently extensive. He was anxious to state the reasons by which he had been induced not to push it further at the present moment. On referring to the amount of men now owing from the militia to the line, it would appear that the number was 8,767. This deficiency chiefly existed in Ireland; in which country, in consequence of the number of married men that were in the militia, and of other circumstances, the impediments to carrying into effect the volunteering from the militia into the line were greater than in Great Britain. The ground on which he conceived it not expedient to push the present measure further than by filling up the blanks of the Bill with 30,000 men, 28,750 being the amount of the double quota, and arrears (besides the officers and non-commissioned officers), was, that it was not desirable to do so until there was reason to believe that a greater force could be advantageously used. Unless this were previously ascertained, it would be unnecessary to put the country to an expence larger than that which our view of military policy seemed to demand. Not foreseeing such a necessity, it did not appear to him advisable to recommend parliament to allow a greater scope to the impulse of the militia to volunteer for foreign service. The assistance which the number to which it was proposed to limit the Bill before the committee would afford, would be most powerful. On a recent occasion he had stated its probable amount; namely, after covering the waste of the ensuing year, about 15 or 20,000 men. He meant that, supposing the waste of the British army not
 120
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, a plan and estimate had been given in — the execution was thrown open to public competition, and fell considerably short of the estimate proposed.
 Mr. Wynne  said, the inconvenience to the public business would be nearly as great, in waiting the decision of the treasury as the decision of parliament.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  believed it would not be necessary for him at present to go at any considerable length into the particulars of the Supplies which had been voted, and the sums which were necessary for the carrying on the public business of the country. He should merely observe, that 13 millions had been voted for the naval service; and two issues of Exchequer bills of five millions, and two millions and a half, and that the whole sum voted amounted to about 27 millions. The Ways and Means to meet the public exigencies were only the annual taxes, amounting to about three millions, and the sum to be raised by the loan concluded that morning. Before entering on the particulars of the loan, he would proceed to explain some of the circumstances connected with it. He believed it was unusual for a loan to be contracted before a former loan had been altogether paid up. In the month of June last, when the loan took
 108 109 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. s. d. 
 
 Stock created in the 3 per £ 
 cent. Reduced 24,200,000 
 In the Consolidated 14,740,000 
 Making together 38,940,000 110 
 
 The interest amounted to 1,168,200 
 Sinking Fund 584,100 
 Charges of management 11,682 
 Total annual charge 1,763,982 l. s. d. l.
 Lord Castlereagh  admitted, that he had said that which was the conviction of his mind; namely, that peace was the only legitimate and justifiable object of all war. But he should certainly object to the introduction of the particular words moved for by the hon. gentleman, because that would imply that the other measures of parliament had not been adopted in the same spirit. It was to protect parliament from such an imputation, that he must decline acceding to the amendment of the hon. gentleman.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed, that the measure must, in the first place, have this effect; but that the original sinking fund would not thereby be ultimately impaired.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, whether the practice was good or bad, it was one which had always been followed.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, the expence of the improvements at the Customhouse was defrayed out of the public revenues of the
 107
 Mr. Whitbread  thought if any exception could be made in favour of any individual, it ought in the case of Mr. Remouy.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he had been applied to by a Mr. Remouy, a gentleman who was high in office in Toulon when the English were in possession of that place. He had rendered the greatest services to the fleets and armies of this country at Toulon. Among other things, he paid over a great portion of the aids to our government. This individual only received the small pittance of one shilling per day when the first came here. This allowance was afterwards raised to 100 l. 106
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that he would not press his amendment at present; but that on the report he would move it, in order that, should if it were rejected by the House, it might be entered on the Journals. He had abstained from commenting on the measure itself (however objectionable on constitutional grounds), for reasons which he had before stated; but he did conceive it to be highly important, at a period like this, when in France addresses had been presented to the ruling power, praying that the war might be brought to a speedy conclusion; and when in England, on the contrary, in unofficial papers, means were resorted to to inflame the people; that parliament, on adopting a measure such as that before the committee, should distinctly declare, that they were influenced solely by a wish to bring the contest to a speedy and happy termination. So thinking,
 121
 Mr. Whitbread,  in the course of putting them, asked if the effect of this system would not be, to take the whole sum required out of the sinking fund already created; and thus to diminish it to the extent of the sum required for the present exigencies of the country?
 Mr. Whitbread  begged to move as an amendment the introduction of a passage, to which, considering the observations made by the noble lord opposite on a recent occasion, he dared to say that there would be no objection. It was to state, that the object of the measure was, "to bring the contest in which we were engaged to a speedy and happy conclusion, and to obtain the blessings of peace."
 Mr. Whitshed Keene  rose and said: — Though I feel a scruple in detaining the House from going into a committee on this important measure, yet I must request their indulgence to submit some of the considerations which press strongly on my mind on the subject. This is the third great measure of the same tendency, which it has been the noble lord's lot, in the discharge of his official duty, to submit to this House. The first, the establishment of the local militia; a measure of which this House and this country felt the necessity at the time it was introduced. That noble body of men, the volunteers of Great Britain, nearly the whole male population of our country, started into, arms on the appearance of imminent danger of invasion. A spectacle admired
 111 112 113 114
 Mr. Lockhart  presented a Petition from certain insolvent debtors in the King's-bench, complaining of the delay which had taken place in carrying into effect the Insolvent Act of last session, and in consequence of which delay they had sustained many hardships. The hon. member proceeded to observe, that every motive which had induced the legislature last session to pass the Act in question ought now to induce them to take its deficiencies into immediate consideration. Though he (Mr. Lockhart) was a determined enemy to all Insolvent Acts in their principle, as tending to hold out temptations to practise a variety of frauds which were, indeed, the disgrace of the country; yet, as they had passed an Act for the relief of debtors, they certainly ought to take the necessary steps for rendering that Act as efficient as possible. For that reason, and also because the delays already experienced, as well those which must inevitably attend upon executing the provisions of the Act in question, from the numerous individuals who would claim under it, were really injurious to those persons whose relief the legislature contemplated, he should, unless he saw a disposition to do it in another place, propose on an early day to delegate to the courts of quarter sessions a concurrent jurisdiction for hearing and discharging insolvent cases, leaving the disposal of the debtors' property to the commissioner appointed under the Act.—The Petition was then ordered to lie on the table.
 Lord Castlereagh  began by expressing his regret, that in calling on the House to make provision for the fulfilment of these treaties, he was not in a situation to lay before them all the engagements with foreign powers into which his Majesty had entered in the course of the year. But he trusted, that his not being able to do so would not be attributed to any neglect on the part of the executive government; as, whenever the treaties to which he alluded were produced, the House would observe, on a reference to the dates, that there had not been time to exchange the ratifications, a form indispensable before any document of that nature could be laid on the table. At the same time, it appeared so material, before calling on the House to make any further provision on this subject, to put them in possession of the general nature and extent of the engagements which had been entered into by his Majesty's government, that he felt it would be very unsatisfactory, and even unfair, in his Majesty's government, willing as parliament had evinced itself on the present occasion, to call upon it to make a considerable further provision, without at least giving the House some notion of the proportion which the proposed provision bore to the general expenditure on the same head. He was anxious, on another consideration also, to bring every thing connected with this subject into one point of view. The motive was obvious. It was highly desirable that foreign powers should look in a collected view at the exertions which this country had made in their behalf. Painful as was the task, his Majesty's government had felt it their duty to resist many applications for aid which they would have been most happy to grant, and an acquiescence in which, if acquiescence had been practicable, would doubtlessly have been in the highest degree beneficial to the common cause. But the limited nature of the resources of the country had compelled them in some cases to deny altogether, and in others materially to narrow, the assistance which had been required of them. It was extremely desirable, therefore, that foreign powers should have an opportunity of seeing the aggregate of the exertions which Great Britain had made for the interest and advantage of the world; and of being
 133 l. 134 135 136 l.; 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 l.
 Mr. Canning  rose and spoke nearly in the following terms:—Having been unfortunately absent when the general assurances of support on the part of the House were given in answer to the Speech from the throne, of which the vote of this day is a partial performance, I am anxious to take this opportunity of expressing, as strongly and as warmly as I am able, both my concurrence in those assurances, and my disposition to make them good, by the way and in the proportion recommended by the noble lord. If in the present state of this country, and of the world, those who, during the course of the tremendous and protracted struggle, on various occasions called upon parliament to pause, to retard its too rapid and too rash advance, and to drawback from the task it had unwisely undertaken to perform, have manfully and honourably stepped forward to join their congratulations to the joyful acclamations of the nation, and to admit the present to be the period favourable to a mighty and decided effort; how much more grateful must it be to those, who at do time during the struggle have lifted up their voices in this place, excepting to recommend and to urge new exertions; to those who, when the prospects were most dreary and melancholy, insisted that there was but one course becoming the character and honour of Great Britain:—a persevering, an undaunted resistance to the overwhelming power of France. To an individual who, under the most discouraging circumstances, still maintained that the deliverance of Europe (often a derided term) was an object not only worthy of our arms, but possible to be achieved, it must be doubly welcome to come forward to acknowledge his transports, and to vindicate his share in the national exultation. If too, on the other hand, there have been those who, having recommended pacification when the opportunity was less favourable, are now warranted, as undoubtedly they are, in uttering the same sentiments, in the confidence that the country will sympathize with them; it is natural for those who, under other circumstances, have discouraged the expectation of peace, and have warned the nation against precipitate overtures, now to be anxious to embrace this occasion of stating their sincere conviction and their joy, as strongly felt by them as by others, that by the happy course of events during the last year, and by the wise policy we shall
 145 146 147 "Free, and to none accountable, preferring "Hard liberty, before the easy yoke "Of servile pomp." 148 149 —Ultro Inachias venisset ad urbes Dardanus, et versis lugeret Græcia fatis. 150 151 —"Ah me! They little know "How dearly I abide that boast I made; "Under what torments inwardly I groan, "While they adore me on the throne of hell!" 152
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  observed, that it was not to this particular treaty that he objected, but to the principle of granting foreign subsidies at a time when the annual taxes bore so heavy on the community, and when our finances by no means warranted us in such an expenditure; for the allied powers had never so effectually opposed the French as during the last two years, when almost unconnected and unsupported by pecuniary aid from England. If the people of the continent really felt the encroachments of France, they would continue to resist, without pay being afforded as a preliminary for the continuance of their hostility. He understood that the new loan was for 22 millions, with a prospect of more being required: in addition to this enormous sum, during the ensuing spring, some thought that loans might be pushed to any extent whatever; provided part of each was reserved as a sinking capital, ultimately to extinguish the debt. He conceived this to be dangerous, and every way burthensome to the present generation. The Prince Regent's Speech, from which the proposed measure originated, gave much satisfaction, on account of the moderate and liberal sentiments which it contained. Regarding the Speech as that of the ministers, he hoped that they would act up to it. They would do well to caution their agents, who write in the public prints, to abstain from violent language; as a suspicion might be entertained, that what was announced publicly in the House, was discouraged elsewhere; that when debating on subsidies caused by coalitions, it would be well to recollect the campaigns of 1799 and 1800. In the first, the allies were completely successful; but in the latter, the fatal battles of Marengo and Hohenlinden laid Austria again prostrate at the foot of France. No dependence could be placed on the small states in Germany; they were alternately with the strongest party. The system pursued, resembled too much that of a person in private life, who lived on the principal instead of the interest of his fortune, for him to think it a wise or safe course for the nation any longer to pursue. Ministers
 153
 Mr. Baring  objected to the mode of granting the subsidy. Remitting it to the continent by bills, or in paper, was the least advantageous mode that could be. Our bills on the continent would not be worth more than 40 or 50 per cent. Mr. Baring also conceived, that the postponing the payment of part of the debt incurred
 156
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, under all the circumstances, it had been judged advisable to postpone the raising one million of the subsidy to, Austria to a subsequent period, rather than incur the inconveniences of the immediate increase of expence.
 Mr. Bathurst , in rising, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to a subject with the merits of which many of those who heard him were well acquainted, expressed his conviction that when the details were known to the House at large, they would not hesitate to apply a remedy to that which appeared to him to be a great evil. About ten years ago an Act was brought into that House by a right hon. and learned gentleman, a doctor of civil law, to remedy the inconveniencies which were felt in many parishes in consequence of the non-residence of the clergy. That Act was certainly calculated to insure a sufficient residence, at the same time that it mentioned a variety of cases exempt from its operation, and left to the bishops the power, under certain circumstances, of increasing by licence the number of those cases. The Act to which he alluded had two principal objects in view, and for the attainment of those objects heavy penalties were attached to the non-observance of its provision. The first of these objects, that indeed which was evidently the main scope of the legislature, was, he repeated, to insure a sufficient residence of the clergy, providing exemptions which branched out into various heads, such as unhealthiness of the situation, impracticability of obtaining a house, &c. &c. but enacting for non-residence, without such exemption, or without licence from the
 129 l. 130 131
 Mr. Whitbread  rose, he said, merely to notice one or two remarks which had occurred in the declamatory speech of the right hon. gentleman who had spoken last but one. He, for one, must disclaim his having entertained any idea at any period of making a dishonourable peace with France, a peace of compromise or subjugation; but he did think, that many opportunities had been lost (and more particularly under the administration of the right hon. gentleman himself,) when there was a prospect of making a fair and honourable peace with France. He never wished this country to make a peace that should compromise her interests or her honour; but he at the same time wished that France should be fairly and honourably dealt by. Sure he was, as sure as he could be of any thing that did not admit of actual demonstration, that if the councils and policy of Mr. Fox had been originally adopted, those tremendous events which we had witnessed, would not have taken place on the continent; nor should we to night have found it necessary to vote the proposed subsidy, in order to make one more effort to put an end to the war. One part of the right hon. gentleman's declamation he was quite at a loss to understand, or where be had found the material for it. He did not know where he would find any individual in that House either among the friends who sat
 154 155
 Lord Castlereagh  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to explain and amend the Act of the 41st of his Majesty, relative to the circumstances under which persons, in official situations, could hold seats in that House. A question had arisen, as to the situation in which those persons stood, holding offices under the lord lieutenant of Ireland; and it had been doubted whether those persons appointed to fill offices by the lord lieutenant of Ireland must necessarily vacate their seats, like persons accepting situations under the crown. A question had also arisen, whether persons holding such offices under the lord lieutenant were not obliged by law to vacate their seats on a new lord lieutenant coming into power, as it was assumed that those appointed by the old lord lieutenant must go out of office with him. He apprehended that this was not necessary, any more than it was necessary that persons holding situations under the crown should resign them on the sovereignty being assumed by a regent. It might be very
 157
 Lord Castlercagh  said, that he should not object to the clause proposed, and expressed the gratification he derived from the statement of the hon. baronet adding that as the citizens of London had expressed such an honourable disposition to serve the common cause of their country it would be right to allow that they should render that service in the manner which they themselves thought proper to propose.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose and declared his
 161 162
 Mr. C. W. Wynne  would think such interference as the present necessary, if he saw any indisposition in ministers to enter fairly into the question of peace. But he perceived no symptoms of that kind in their conduct, and on that ground could not accede to his hon. friend's motion. If the words which he proposed had been originally in the preamble to the Bill, he should not have objected to them, but he thought their introduction unnecessary. In looking to peace, we only could look for a safe and permanent one; and none could be safe and permanent, that was not founded on the reduction of the enemy's power.
 Mr. Bathurst  was not satisfied that it was in his power to give the hon. and learned gentleman that detailed information which he might be anxious to receive. A Bill had been sent over from the local jurisdiction in the Isle of Man, the object of which was, to relieve the insolvent debtors there confined. This Bill had been laid before the privy council; and they, upon consideration, thought it right to recommend it to the crown to signify its dissent from the Bill. He believed the objection to that Bill was, that it was thought likely to open a door for persons, contracting debts in this country, to get relieved from such obligation, merely by going to the Isle of Man. Such, at least, it was imagined, might be the effect of this local measure. He, however, was not aware, that any objection was made to giving effect to such arrangements as would afford relief to those who were  bona fide
 Mr. Horner , seeing a right hon. gentleman in his place (Mr. Bathurst), who, he thought, would be able to give him some explanation on a subject on which he had presented a petition in the present session, as he had before presented one in the summer, wished to ask, whether any and what steps were in progress for relieving the insolvent debtors in the Isle of Man?
 Mr. Whitbread  then rose to bring forward a motion of which he had given notice, with regard to an amendment in the preamble of this Bill. He could not, he said, calculate upon being able to persuade the noble lord (Castlereagh) to assent to, or the House to adopt, the amendment which he had to submit; but yet he thought it proper to put on record the grounds upon which he was induced to give his support to ministers at this important crisis; namely, from a strong wish and confident expectation that the exertions which they had made, and which they were about to make, would tend to the attainment of the blessing of peace. He was not insensible to the burthens the country had to bear, or to the grievous weight which was to be added to those burthens by the resolutions to which the House had so lately assented; neither was he insensible to the invasion of the old constitutional practice which the measure under consideration involved, nor to the great injustice to which that measure was in its progress and execution calculated to subject many meritorious officers whose complaints had reached him, but whose case was obvious before those complaints were heard. He was not insensible either of the nature and tendency of the several similar expedients which had been resorted to, from time to time, to recruit our disposable force, and which expedients being from their character unfit and inadequate to their purpose, led to this last great exertion for the reinforcement of our army. He had also in his recollection several other points, which might at another time call for animadversion. The proposition, for instance, of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, upon the subject of local tokens, was a direct confession with regard to the state of our silver currency; while the measure brought forward by the noble lord (Castlereagh) respecting the acceptance of foreign bills, for the accommodation of our allies, was obviously calculated to aggravate an evil long and justly complained of, by increasing the amount of our paper currency. But still, with all these considerations in his mind—with his eyes fully open respecting them, he was ready to support and confide in government, from a strong reliance upon its disposition to obtain peace; and this reliance particularly rested upon the noble lord (Castlereagh); many parts of whose speech, last night, he heard with peculiar gratification. From that speech,
 160
 Mr. Whitbread  wished to explain, that he always thought it impossible to conclude any peace but such as that which the noble lord contemplated. He declared most sincerely, that in all the efforts which he had made in former sessions, and under different circumstances, to create a pacific disposition in the government of the country, he never advocated peace on other grounds than those now mentioned. He wished it to have been tried, because he thought that it had not properly been done; and that, if attempted in the spirit of sincerity, it might have succeeded. When, in contemplation of a great, arduous, and protracted struggle, he was willing to augment the means of ministers, to free them from all shackles of opposition, and to lavish the resources of the country; surely no one could doubt for
 163
 Mr. Lushington  reported from the Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider the Conventions between his Majesty and the emperor of Russia and king of Prussia, the Resolutions which they had directed him to report to the House; and the same were read, and agreed to by the House; and are as follow:
 
 158 1. That it is expedient to make provision for enabling his Majesty to make good such engagements as may be subsisting or be contracted between his Majesty and foreign powers. 2. That provision be made for enabling his Majesty to defray the expences which may be incurred in the execution of two Conventions between his Majesty and their majesties the emperor of all the Russias and the king of Prussia, bearing date respectively the 30th day of September last, for the issue of a subsidy by the means of bills of credit, not exceeding the amount of 2,500,000 l.
 Mr. W. Smith , feeling, in common with every man in this country, the most lively joy at the prospects which brightened upon us, would not throw any impediment in the way of ministers, and, if he thought this motion intended to oppose them, would not support it; but he thought its tendency very different. He considered it not amiss to state specific reasons for acceding to a measure like the present, at this time. He certainly thought that the militia would be more likely to volunteer, if it was understood that the end of their, exertions would be the acquirement of a secure peace; for he was not alarmed by, the noble lord's exposition of his view of peace; he regarded it in the same light, and wished for no other than that which, his lordship had described. But in saying this, he must own that he did not consider it as so near. He thought we should still have an arduous struggle before we could conquer such a peace as, after all we had done, and all the world had suffered, we were entitled to expect. He wished the words to be added to the preamble of the Bill, for the satisfaction of the country, and the popularity of the measure.
 Alderman Curtis  observed, that as doubts had arisen with respect to the nature of this Bill as affecting the city of London, he was desired to "introduce" a clause into it [a laugh], to save the rights and privileges of that city. At the same time he had the happiness to state, that the common council had this day come to an unanimous resolution to have an application made to that House, which would be presented in the usual way on Monday or Tuesday next, for leave to bring in a Bill to allow the militias of the city of London to do the same as was proposed by the Bill before the House with regard to the other militia regiments throughout the country.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the question having been already fully discussed, he should not now detain the House by any further argument. His object was, to carry into execution the determination of a former night to grant to his Majesty the sum of 3 millions on account, to be applied to the purpose of aiding our allies. He moved a Resolution for this purpose.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that during the last year, the Russian fleet had been eminently useful, and he had no doubt that it would be found equally necessary in the naval distribution of the present year.
 Mr. Whitbread  did not mean regularly to resist the motion, but he could not allow that part of the subsidy to go unnoticed which was appropriated for the Russian fleet. With our present naval strength, he thought any such addition wholly unnecessary.
 Mr. F. Wright  said, he hoped that the Bill, the third reading of which stood for that day, would be postponed; as he understood the petitioner intended to present another petition, to be heard by counsel at the bar. He then moved that the petition do lie on the table.
 Mr. B. Bathurst  said, that he could not consent to postpone the third reading of the Bill. No injury would be inflicted on the petitioner by the Bill; as it would
 172 bonâ fide
 The Attorney General  assured the hon. gentleman, that there would be no time lost in considering how to relieve the insolvent debtors. He thought it was likely that this day would not pass without a motion being made by a noble lord in another place.
 The Attorney General  then observed, that he might be allowed to say, he was assured that, a measure affording speedy relief to the persons who were aggrieved by the delay under the present Act, was in preparation, and would be passed before the recess. For himself, he did not find that there was any thing objectionable in the principle of the Bill; and if time were given, he conceived it might be made a very, wholesome law. But he agreed that it was necessary to do something, immediately, and for that reason he
 179
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  complimented the last speaker on the delicacy and discretion with which, in the difficult situation in which he was placed, he had treated the question. But in all the arguments of the hon. and learned member, he was so unfortunate as to differ from him. The Report, indeed, stated, that the transaction was illegal; but it also went on to state, that it was one contrary to the law of parliament, and to the purity of election. If this then was not a case in which it was proper for parliament to interfere, he did not know what was. He also differed from the learned member, who seemed to
 181
 Mr. Lockhart  postponed bringing forward his motion on the subject till Monday.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that if he did not bring forward the Bill for the speedy discharge of the insolvent debtors, he thought it necessary to state his reasons shortly. He never had intended to repeal the present Bill; but he wished to give a concurrent jurisdiction to the quarter sessions, for the purpose of accelerating the object of it. He wished much that the Bill should be fairly tried; but he was afraid that he might be doing an injury instead of a service to those insolvent debtors who expected a speedy discharge, if he were to bring in a Bill now, which might not be passed in the present session.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  presented a petition from certain foreigners confined in the Fleet prison, and in the King's-bench, praying that the benefit of the Insolvent Act should be extended to them. They hoped that the House would be the more inclined to view their case with favour, from the consideration, that they were the subjects of other countries, where they would not have been exposed to such severity of treatment. As he understood that the Act, passed in the last session, was to be suffered to expire, he perhaps owed some apology to the House for presenting a petition, claiming the benefit of an Act which was about to expire. He had really been surprised, at hearing that the Act was impossible to be carried into execu-
 178
 Mr. Horne  (member for Hellestone) rose and said, he should feel it a dereliction of his duty to himself as well as his constituents, if he did not state his objections to the present measure. In doing so, however, he acted solely from the individual conviction of his own mind, without concert with any persons in or out of the borough. The borough of Hellestone had been long in possession of the exclusive right of sending two members to parliament; a right not arising out of any usurpation on the privileges of others, or in prejudice to them; but arising out of the law and constitution of the country, and standing on the same basis as the best and most sacred of our institutions, or as the right and authority of that House. It was natural, then, for the burgesses of Hellestone, and in some measure a duty incumbent on them, to make a struggle for the preservation of such a right. He was at the same time not insensible, that this privilege was the last which ought to be considered as private property; that it had high and important duties connected with it; and that if any gross abuse were proved in the discharge of those duties, it was then the business of parliament to interfere and strike at the root of the corruption, provided the municipal law did not reach the evil. It would, however, be the duty of the House to proceed cautiously, on the fullest evidence, and to take care that in aiming to secure the purity of election, they did not destroy that which was the foundation of it, the elective franchise itself. This Bill might form a precedent by which hereafter, in times of faction and turbulence, or of extreme corruption, rather the quality of the members returned, than the corruption attending their return, might be made the ground of similar disqualifications. Thus far his remarks were general: he would now proceed to apply them more particularly to the Bill in question. This Bill stood upon the ground of the special Report only, or of that and the evidence delivered at the bar of the House. Now the terms of the Report stated, that there had subsisted a certain illegal
 180
 Lord Castlereagh  was conscious that only one feeling pervaded the House and the country, on the necessity of exertion at so propitious and so decisive a period, and on the propriety of arming government with extraordinary means.—Any thing, which might have a tendency to increase the disposable force of the country, would, therefore, he was certain, meet with general approbation. He would call the attention of the House to some further regulations, which, he thought, should be adopted in the militia, without altering the principle on which that establishment was founded. He had no doubt, but the ends and wishes of government would be fulfilled by the additional amount of force lately granted by parliament. But it would become a question for them to decide, whether the existing arrangements would be sufficient for the service of the interior, or whether other more advantageous dispositions could not be made to meet any exigency which might possibly arise. As far as he was able to judge, the regular and local militias were, on their present footing, framed and organized in a most excellent manner: but occasions might occur, in which the necessity of those bodies being disposable might urgently be felt. He did not intend to propose any alteration in their constitution and establishment, and would not require from them any other service than that which he felt confident would be found consistent with their own spirit and good will, without any departure from the militia principle. The regulations which he should suggest embraced two heads, the local and the regular militia. They were not, if adopted, to be acted upon immediately; but he only wished government to have the power of accepting extended services from those bodies, should any necessity arise. With respect to the local militia, it was liable to be called into action on two services: in case of rebellion or of invasion. These were not likely now to happen; and notwithstanding the grant of force made by parliament for foreign service, and the magnitude of the
 189 190 d. 191
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the duty, as at present regulated, bore extremely hard on manufacturers of various descriptions. It, therefore, became necessary, particularly now, when a variety of new openings for the trade of this country presented themselves, that the duty should be regulated. In consequence of the fluctuation in the demand for this article under the present system, he was informed, that it varied in price, from 25 s. ad valorem. 187 l. l.
 Mr. Whitbread  had no doubt but this measure of the noble lord's originated in the joyful event which had just taken place in Holland, and which made him desirous to employ a larger force out of this country, to assist that nation to be recover its independence. Never did a more favourable opportunity present itself to exert our whole strength, with more confidence of success; and the noble lord need not anticipate any opposition from him, to a measure calculated to facilitate the emancipation of a brave people. But for the presence of the French prisoners, who, he sincerely regretted, still remained in this country, he would say that there never was a moment when less force was required to conduct the police at home. Tranquillity was reigning within our island; and he trusted that the abundant harvest with which Providence had blessed us, the cheapness of provisions returning with returning employment, would maintain it; would dispel any apprehension of its again being disturbed; and would convince men, that the riots which had some time since alarmed the country, were only occasioned by the dearness of provisions, and, the had therefore ceased with them. There could be but one voice in favour of our assisting the Dutch. They had already so far succeeded because theirs was a contest of the people, and not of the government. Because it was a contest of the government and not the people, the single battle of Jena had crushed the Prussian monarchy. Because the people and not the government now waged it; the Prussian monarchy was restored. When Buonaparte marched his immense army to the centre of the Russian empire, the people fought, and he was destroyed. In Sweden, the people had rid themselves,
 192
 Sir W. Curtis  then stated, that although only a proportion of the London militia were thus placed by the Bill at the disposal of the country; yet, it was the wish and desire of the good citizens of London, in common council assembled, that if government found the services of the country required it, they might consider both regi-
 188
 Mr. Swan  was in favour of the clause.
 Mr. Banks  thought it was not of importance to alter the returning officer, and was rather inclined to think that the mayor should continue to act in that capacity.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  was decidedly in favour of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in a Committee, moved that a sum of 10 millions and a half of Exchequer bills should be issued for the service of Great Britain. He thought it right to state, that from the regular system of taking up the Exchequer bills monthly, the quantify now in circulation did not much exceed that of January last.
 Lord Castlereagh  brought up the Bill for the augmentation of the 60th regiment from seven to ten battalions; as also the Bill for extending the provisions of the Act of the 46th of the King, to serjeants in the militia. He also brought up the Bill, for enabling his Majesty to accept of the voluntary offers of the local militia, for an extension of their services to a time to be limited; and a Bill for amending the 51st of the King, with respect to the interchange between the militias of Great Britain and Ireland.
 Mr. Banks  moved the second reading of the Hellestone Election Bill. He then proposed, that the blank in the Bill respecting the amount of freehold which should give a qualification to vote, should be filled up, by inserting ten pounds. He argued at some length on the great depreciation of money since 40 shillings was the qualification for a vote; and thought it was only bringing back the constitution to its original principles, to require such a qualification as would place the elector above the necessity of corruption.
 Mr. Swan  contended, that the effect of such an alteration would be to disqualify the many who were the furthest removed from corruption, and give the elective franchise to those who were the most corrupt. It was notorious, that in Cornwall it was among the most opulent that corruption had taken the deepest root, and established itself into a system. He believed that there was not a peer in Cornwall who did not hold his rank from corruption of this sort. He was sure, however, that the effect of such an alteration would only be, to transfer the borough to one or two peers who could decidedly influence the few ten-pound freeholders to whom it was proposed to give the right of election exclusively.
 Mr. Grenfell  preferred the qualification remaining at 40 s. l.
 Mr. P. Grenfell  opposed the clause.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  had no wish to press that part of the clause, not conceiving it to be material to his object.
 Mr. Whitbread  presented a Petition from
 198
 Mr. Lushington  reported from the committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider further of Ways and Means for raising the supply granted to his Majesty, the Resolution which they had directed him to report to the House; and the same was read, and agreed to by the House, and is as follows: l.
 Mr. Bennet  expressed some surprise at this Bill being hurried through at such an early period of the session.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he was perfectly prepared to concur in the general reasoning of the hon. gentleman on this subject; but he hoped, that under the peculiar circumstances of the present period, there was nothing to rouse the jealousy of parliament, or to induce them to believe that the crown wished to possess the power which this Bill conferred for any other purpose than for the sake of public convenience. In the existing state of affairs, it was the opinion of the crown, that the parliament might adjourn to a period so distant, probably the beginning of March, as would render it difficult to pass the new Bill before the expiration of the old one. He was sure the hon. gentleman, and all who heard him, would agree in the expediency of not running the slightest risk of having no law in existence on this subject. The Bill was proposed as a matter of essential convenience; and the adoption
 201
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that it was by no means inconsistent with the prerogative of the crown to communicate to parliament the expediency of an adjournment for any particular purpose; which communication was generally answered by an adjournment, as a matter of course. All however, that he meant to say on the present occasion was, that in the judgment of the minister is of the crown, the general state of affairs was such, that the meeting of parliament, after the recess, might be deferred until a period somewhat later than ordinary.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in a tone of voice which would not allow us distinctly to hear his statement, proceeded to make the propositions of which he had given notice. He observed, that considerable alarm had been excited among the West India interest on this subject, and that it was most desirable to afford that interest a just protection. It was his intention to propose such an increase of the duties on East India sugar, as, compared with the duties on west India sugar, would make them 10 s. s. d. s. 202 s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. gentleman who had just spoken had anticipated the observation he was about to make. He allowed, that the matter was of great importance, and deserved serious consideration. He could not think, however, with the worthy alderman, that the shipping interest would be materially affected by it, when he considered the disadvantages under which East India sugar must at all events come to this country. It was only brought as a dead weight, and in a certain degree to defray the expences of the vessels. It was by general trade, and not by the importation of sugar, that the East India shipping was augmented.
 Mr. C. Idle  could not allow that the restrictions on the trade of the West Indies were so great as they had been represented by the hon. gentleman. They were permitted to export sugar, coffee and cocoa, to all parts south, of Cape Finisterre; and the other restraints were only nominal.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  referred the worthy alderman to the 35th of the King; by which it was provided, that as the price of sugar increased, that bounty should diminish; thereby making the foreigner participate in the burden.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  said, that, notwithstanding all he had heard, he must repeat, that the objections he had before mentioned still struck him to be of considerable importance. He viewed the Bill with jealousy, and was averse from the measure as it now stood; for he
 204
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  observed, that the measure proposed by the right hon. gentleman might be very proper one as it regarded the dealers in sugar; but that permission to import East India sugar would materially affect and injure the shipping interest, by the great encouragement that it would afford to India-built shipping. He trusted, that the proposition would not be hastily acceded to, but that due time would be given for its consideration.
 Mr. Marryatt  compared the freedom of the East India trade with the restrictions under which that from the West Indies laboured. It was a well known fact, that for the last twenty years the West Indies had supplied the mother country with sugar at a much cheaper rate than that at which it had been manufactured. Half the estates in Jamaica and the other islands had in consequence been sold, or given up to creditors, with in that period. The duty had fallen on the plantar, not the consumer. It was true, that hitherto-ships from the East Indies had been chiefly ballasted with saltpetre. But how the trade would be open to all adventurers
 203 s. s. s. s.
 Mr. Marryatt  said, he had no doubt, that should his hon. friend, who had just sat down, think proper to bring forward any proposition with respect to the commercial system of our West India colonies, the House would willingly give it all due consideration; for himself he should say, that he would be most ready to attend to it.
 Mr. Benson  observed, that opportunity would be given for its consideration during the progress of the Bill through the House.
 Mr. Whitbread  was perfectly satisfied with the statement made by the noble lord. All that he was anxious about was, that the present practice should not form a precedent, which, if it were to pass wholly unnoticed, it might do. He should not have risen again, but for a single word which had dropped from the noble lord in the course of his observations. The noble lord had said, that in the judgment of "the crown," a long adjournment might take place. Now, as it was to be an adjournment, not a prorogation, he did not see what the judgment or opinion of the crown had to do with it.
 Mr. Whitbread  could by no means agree with the hon. and learned gentleman, that this was a mere matter of course. Nothing but circumstances of a very peculiar nature could justify the highly unconstitutional introduction of a new Mutiny Bill, at a period so premature. The existing Act would not expire until the 25th of March. It had hitherto been the invariable practice not to introduce a new Bill, until such a period of the session as would just allow of its receiving the royal assent before the expiration of the old. It was certainly easy to see, that under the existing circumstances it might be convenient for parliament to give the crown the power which this Bill conveyed for 16 months, instead of for a year, as usual; but a district and good cause made be stated for so doings. If the hon. gentleman or the noble lord opposite would say, that under the present circumstances the approaching adjournment might be so much extended as to reader it a matter of inconvenience to pass the new Bill before the expiration of that now in force, he would not object to it; but he repeated, that something more was necessary than the explanation given by the hon. baronet.
 Mr. W. Smith  observed, that the statements and reasoning which the committee had heard from gentlemen on both sides, with regard to this measure, but particularly from his hon. friend under the gallery (Mr. Marryatt), were calculated to excite very serious reflections, into the consideration of which, however, he did not at present propose to enter at any length. Still he could not help saying, that although he would be one of the last to recommend any proceeding likely to produce a convulsion in trade, or a serious injury to any class of merchants, the main object of legislative consideration being the interest of the public, he could see no objection to the revision of any commercial system to effect that object. Into this train of reflection he was naturally led by the comparison which had been drawn by his hon. friend (Mr. Marryatt), with respect to the produce of our West and East India possessions. According to his hon. friend, the produce of our western colonies was in every respect beaten out of the market by that of the east, with the exception only of sugar. Then it would appear, that the whole produce of the West India colonies was a forced cultivation, kept, up for some sinister purpose, merely to answer the ends of individuals, but by no means with the view to cheapen the price to the consumer—to answer the interest of the public. Was his hon. friend aware what an onus he imposed upon himself by this assertion?—that he became bound to prove this proposition, that advantages arose to this country from the East India monopoly, which more than counterbalanced the admitted disadvantage of an enhanced price of sugar to the public in order to favour the West Indian produce, by giving it a decided preference in our market to
 205
 Mr. Manners Sutton  observed, that when the House had come to the resolution of the number of men to be voted for the service of the year, it appeared almost a matter of course, that the Mutiny Bill should be brought in for their regulations.
 Sir George Warrender  said, it was necessary that the marines, when serving on shore, should be subject to regulations similar to those of the land forces. The
 200
 Mr. Abercromby  opposed the continuance of the Act, on the same grounds as Mr. Horner, and used nearly the same arguments.
 Mr. Courtenay  lamented the discussion that had taken place, in consequence of the predilection of the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. H. Addington) for a former measure. The Bill now would become an instrument of cruelty against many who might be brought within its operation, though originally directed against a very different description of persons—those engaged in illegal combinations. Nothing but necessity, could justify such a measure as the present; and
 214
 Mr. J. Smith  rose and expressed a wish, that as peace and tranquillity were now, and had been for a considerable time back, completely restored in the districts to which the Act referred to was originally intended to apply, the severe penalty prescribed by that Act should cease. He saw no objection to a Bill for extending to lace-frames the same provisions which, according to an old statute, applied to stocking-frames; because otherwise, should the Act under consideration be repealed or allowed to expire, the lace-frames would not enjoy the due protection of the law. But he had serious objections to the continuance of a law which he would take the liberty of saying was wholly ineffective; he knew from local observation, that the penalty of death had the effect of indisposing persons to prosecute for such offences as the Act had in view, and therefore, there had been no conviction under it. Much information had indeed reached him which fully satisfied his mind upon this subject. He would be the last man in the world to resist any measure calculated to prevent such outrages as disturbed certain parts of the country when this Act was originally enacted; but he was then,
 209
 Lord Castlereagh  stated, that it was essential to carrying into effect the Act of last session, that bullion should be found to carry on the trade with India; and that, therefore, a trade must be carried on with Asia and Africa, under certain limitations, particularly respecting the trade to the Mediterranean. At present, he should steer clear of the question about India-built shipping, reserving that as a subject for future and distinct consideration. The noble lord concluded, by moving for leave to bring in a Bill, to regulate the trade of the subjects of this kingdom to and from any of the countries within the charter of the
 215
 Mr. Brown  should be guided by the necessity of the case, and no necessity now existed; he did not choose to legislate upon speculative grounds.
 Mr. Bennet  again rose, and, after alluding to a number of cases which had come to his knowledge, of a degree of severity and cruelty in the infliction of corporal punishment, which made the blood run cold, the hon. member moved a clause, that any officer attending the first execution of a sentence, and suffering the remainder to be afterwards inflicted, should be cashiered.
 Alderman C. Smith  was in favour of the Act being continued.
 Mr. B. Bathurst  observed upon the grounds alledged by the learned gentleman for the repeal of the law under consideration; namely, the state of the country, and the severity of the punishment prescribed by the law. As to the first ground, the question for the House to decide was, whether, from the short time that had elapsed since the disturbances had ceased against which the law was pointed, it would be prudent to repeal it; for himself, he could have no hesitation in deciding in the negative; and he felt that many circumstances might be adduced to justify that decision. Then, as to the second ground, it was asserted that the law was inefficient—that there had been no convictions under it, because there had been no prosecutions, in consequence of the severity of the punishment. But no facts were quoted to sustain this assertion. If, however, there were no such facts, which might be doubted, he should still maintain, that although some men were
 212
 Mr. Horner  supported the argument, of sir Samuel Romilly, illustrating the severity of the law under consideration by stating, that even an apprentice, who should wilfully cut any of his master's stockings or lace in the frames, or any, or the utensils used in the machinery, would be, under this Act, liable to capital punishment, without any proof of confederacy or combination whatever; while the master would, be subject to punishment for misdemeanor, if he declined to prosecute the apprentice detected in such an act. After pointing out this case, which could not be denied, he thought it unnecessary to urge any farther argument against the cruelty and injustice of a law, which the right hon. mover notwithstanding proposed to continue, without even the plea of necessity. There might be circumstances which would render that an offence at one time, which, would be quite innocent, at another. An act of parliament had once existed against drinking healths, because that was a badge of hostility to the crown—the sign of a disloyal conspiracy. The cutting of stockings or lace might two years back be deemed a capital offence, because such was the conduct of a dangerous combination; and yet such, cutting might be consistently met at this
 213
 Mr. H. Addington  admitted, that there no longer existed a necessity for the measure. The office, with which he was connected, carried on a correspondence with most parts of the kingdom; and in that correspondence nothing had appeared that called imperiously for the present Bill; but from the recent date of the disorders for the suppression of which the Bill had been enacted, he was led to infer, that it still ought to be continued, as a measure of precaution and prevention, which had originally been productive of the most beneficial effects.
 Mr. H. Addington  expressed his happiness in confirming the statement of the hon. gentleman, that tranquility was completely restored in the districts alluded to, and therefore he should be the last person to originate the measure under consideration. But finding the Act in existence, and aware of its influence in putting down an alarming disturbance, he thought it his duty to propose its continuance, as a matter of prudence and precaution, to guard against the possible recurrence of any such outrages and in the hope that it would operate  in terrorem,
 Mr. H. Addington  disclaimed any such intention.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  thought, that while the Navigation Act subsisted, the commerce of this country had nothing to fear from foreign competition.—Leave was given bring in the Bill.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that the present time was very different from that when the Bill had been introduced into the House. Conspiracy and murder, with crimes approaching to high treason, then prevailed in the districts assigned for its operation; and the penalty of death which it imposed served as a warning to the country at large. The crimes, however, which he mentioned, were now all done away, and not a loom was now unemployed, unless from want of hands to work it. He should vote now against the Bill, for the same reason that he had formerly voted for it.
 Mr. Benson  expressed his satisfaction that the present discussion had arisen; as it would, at least, produce the good effect of communicating to the world the declaration of the right hon. and learned gentleman, that it was illegal to inflict upon a soldier the remainder of any corporal punishment after he had undergone as large a portion of it as he could endure.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  admitted the general reasoning of the last speaker, but denied its application to the measure before the House. He said, the law had been found beneficial, and that was an argument why the House should continue it.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  said (in allusion to what had fallen from sir S. Rommilly with respect to himself that he had no hesitation in declaring his opinion of the impropriety, injustice, and even illegality of inflicting the second part of a sentence after the first had really produced all the suffering that was intended. But, he thought it possible to evade the punishment altogether by means of the proposed clause, and therefore he should vote against it. He was not, he said, prepared for the clause which the hon. member had submitted, nor, indeed, for the discussion of the Bill at the present moment. It was brought forward thus early, that it might pass before the recess.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  thought the hon. and learned member's argument would be much stronger if any thing new were proposed to be introduced into the Bill by that (the ministerial) side of the House; when it might be urged, perhaps, that they were taking an unfair advantage of the presumed state of the House; and it was to that supposition alone that, he alluded, when he used the expression adverted to. It should be remembered, however, that the Bill in question would not have any operation till the 25th the next March, and its actual duration would be no greater than if passed at that period
 217
 Mr. M. Sutton  stated, that very few instances had occurred of solitary imprisonment. If, by the Act as now worded, courts martial had not that power, they ought to have it; but he was inclined to think that the term imprisonment included all kinds of confinement whatever.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, that he might refer to a high authority in that House, who had stated it to be, in his opinion, illegal to bring out a man a second time to receive the remainder of his punishment, after he had once suffered as much pain, as human nature was capable of enduring. Besides, the terror of this renewal of the punishment was, he knew, often held out to compel the soldier to enter into other service, or what were called the condemned regiments. He hoped that a country which boasted of the mildness of its punishments, and from which the torture had been long banished, would not continue so disgraceful a practice, and that the House would receive some satisfaction on the subject. The idea that this sentence could in any case be evaded, in consequence of such an amelioration of the law, was entirely chimerical, as a surgeon constantly attended to see how the soldier could bear.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  was aware that the actual duration of the Bill could only be a year; but then it was a year to commence three months hence, and that was a perfect novelty.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he had been misconceived if he was understood to say, that he knew, from any particular information in his own possession, that the practice had prevailed, of calling out men to receive the remainder of their punishment after as much had been inflicted as they could bear: what he had asserted was, that after receiving as many lashes as could with safety be given the threat of undergoing the remainder was held out to compel them to enter into particular kinds of service. The right hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. M. Sutton) said he should, negative the bringing up the clause, because it would retard the progress of the Bill; but that argument only afforded another reason for not passing the Bill at all, at this unusually early period of the session; for it now appeared, that they were not only going to pass a Mutiny Bill for a much longer time than heretofore, but all discussion was also to be excluded.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, that he could not think the House, disposed to accede to this measure upon such, grounds as were stated by the right hon. gentleman. In fact the right hon. gentleman had not offered any reason whatever to justify the adoption of his measure, but brought it forward apparently as a mere matter of course; and such, was the right hon. gentleman's line of proceeding upon a measure of no less, importance than the infliction of a capital punishment—than the increase of our already enormous mass of capital offences. The House, in considering this question, should bear in mind the circumstances under which the Act referred to was originally passed. A conspiracy prevailed in certain parts of the country—houses were broken open in the day-time, stocking and lace frames were destroyed; and to meet those evils this Act was adopted, by which that, which
 210 211
 Lord Palmerston  did not think the objection
 216
 Lord Palmerston  moved a clause to prevent persons, not authorised, from advertising for recruits; which was ordered to stand part of the Bill.
 Mr. Rose  presented a Petition from certain artisans and manufacturers (including employers and journeymen) resident in the county of Angus. The right hon. gentleman stated, that he last year presented a petition from this county different in its object from that which he had now the honour to submit; for the Petition which he held in his hand, and which was signed by between 6 and 7,000 persons, prayed only that the House would make such alterations in the Act of the 5th of Elizabeth, as to its wisdom might seem meet. With respect to the measure before the House upon this subject, he should express no decided opinion at present, but reserve himself for the debate. The clauses in the statute of Elizabeth, prohibiting men from following certain trades unless they had previously served an apprenticeship, were, no doubt, in many cases, subject to very serious objections. The courts of law, indeed were not willing to countenance prosecutions under them. It had, in fact, become exceedingly unpopular; but yet he felt and must suggest for the consideration of the learned proposer of the measure alluded to (Mr. Serjeant Onslow), that the total repeal of these provisions would be productive of as much inconvenience as its total enforcement. For instance,
 218
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that, in consequence of the exportation of our colonial and other produce to the
 220 l s.
 Mr. Brown  expressed his dissent from, the proposition, because it involved an absolute violation of one of the first principles of our commercial interest, which was that of giving encouragement to our own colonial produce, to the exclusion of foreign brandy. That such a system of encouragement rested upon the wisest grounds, he thought a proposition quite, indisputable; and therefore the best course for government and parliament would be, firmly to maintain that system. He was extremely sorry then to witness the disposition of the right hon. gentleman, to depart from the principle of that system. If the right hon. gentleman would allow himself to be urged to such departure by
 221
 Mr. Rose  denied that the proposition of his right hon. friend would involve the departure which the hon. gentleman who had just sat down professed to apprehend from the principle which he maintained; that principle was, to secure to rum an advantage over brandy in our home consumption; and did not the very material difference of the duty on those articles produce that security? Nay, would not the security be augmented by the very proposition before the committee? for by this proposition the difference between the duty on rum and brandy would be still farther increased. The duty, indeed, on brandy would by this proposition become much higher than it had ever been before. It could not be unknown to the hon. gentleman, that the duty on foreign spirits had been always greater than that on domestic spirits; and therefore the legislature never lost sight of the principle, that every due preference should be given to our own produce. But he could not agree to the hon. gentleman's principle, if pushed to the extent which he seemed disposed to maintain. For, suppose in our commerce with friendly nations we were to raise our duties very high, with a view to the hon. gentleman's principle, the consequence might be, that they would so raise their duties in retaliation, as very materially to injure our trade. As to the West India interest, he could not see that it had any right whatever to complain of the proposition brought forward by his hon. friend; for it was through a wish to serve that interest, that the brandy alluded to was brought into the country. But with respect to the hon. gentleman's observation, that the consent of that interest to this measure ought to be obtained, he could never agree to the extraordinary principle that that House should not proceed
 222
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to be clearly understood, that the proposition before the committee applied only to the brandy already warehoused, and that it was by no means intended to render the measure permanent.
 Mr. Rose  maintained, that no such preference as the hon. member had asserted had at all appeared, particularly in this transaction. If, indeed, any disposition to such preference existed—if a solicitude for revenue were the paramount consideration of the government, this brandy would not have been allowed so long to remain in the warehouses.
 Mr. Brown , in explanation, stated, that he did not say that upon which the right, hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) argued. He only said, that if the parties interested in. this proposition approved of its introduction, his objection to it would be diminished.
 Mr. Protheroe , concurred with the right hon. gentleman, that the West India interest could have no right to complain of his proposition; but protested against the principle, that a consideration of revenue should be preferred to that of our commercial interest; or that any encouragement should be given to the produce of the enemy, because such encouragement must obviously tend to lessen the pressure of the war upon him.
 Mr. Horner  submitted to the consideration of the right hon. gentleman, whether it would not be much more advisable to abstain from farther proceeding upon this Bill, and to substitute another measure. Upon the propriety of making a great part of that a permanent law which by this Bill it was proposed to render a temporary Act, there could, he thought, be but little difference of opinion. That the provisions of the 28th of the King, applying to stocking-frames, should be extended to lace-frames—that one branch of trade should enjoy the same legal protection as another, was obviously just and necessary. With respect to the extent of the punishment proposed in the Bill before the House, the learned gentleman re-urged his objections to it with increased force, and pressed upon the right hon. gentleman the propriety of reconsidering the subject, particularly as he had advanced no reason for prolonging the duration of such an extraordinary law, but that he had found it in the Statute-book.—In consistency, however, with the professed deference of the right hon. gentleman for the Statute-book, he ought, as he found this law expiring, to submit to its prescription, and allow it to expire. The learned gentleman concluded with expressing a hope that the right hon. gentleman would decline to persist in a measure, the object and policy of which was obviously never meant to be permanent.
 Mr. H. Addington  expressed his readiness to attend to any suggestion from the learned gentleman, and should propose to move the postponement of the committee until Thursday, in order to afford time for further consideration. The right hon. gentleman added, that the finding of this law upon the Statute-book was not, as the learned gentleman had asserted, his only reason for bringing forward this measure the recency of the disturbances against which the Act was originally pointed, being, as he before stated, the principal reason that influenced his mind.
 Mr. H. Addington , in moving for a committee to consider the expediency of granting an increase of salary to the Police Magistrates, observed, that these meritorious officers had had no advance of salary since the year 1792, when the salary of each was settled at 400 l. l.
 Mr. H. Addington  moved the committal of this Bill.
 Mr. Marryatt  supported the motion; and observed, that the brandy had been imported into this country under the licence system; the object and policy of which was, not to encourage the produce of the enemy (as the hon. Member for Bristol appeared to apprehend), but to promote the disposal of our own.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  acknowledged the public spirit which induced the suggestion of the worthy alderman; but after due consideration, the amount of the advance which he felt it his duty to propose to the House, was deemed sufficient under all the circumstances.
 Mr. Serj. Onslow  said, he by no means rose to object to the petition being brought up; but merely to observe, that he thought much misapprehension had gone abroad respecting the Bill which he had given notice it was his intention to bring in on this subject. If he should receive permission of the House to bring in his Bill, he could assure the House and the public, that it had never been within his contemplation, to interfere in the smallest degree with chartered rights, nor would it affect those descriptions of persons who appeared to have taken alarm on the subject. As to attornies, he believed they did not come within the limits of the 5th Eliz.; for by an Act of Geo. 2, serving a clerkship of five years to any attorney regularly admitted by the courts in Westminster hall entitled any person to practise the profession; and he had always though ape the caries were exempted from the Act of Elizabeth. His only aim in bringing in a Bill on the subject, if he should be permitted to do so, was to removed a great number of difficulties and inconvenience to which many trades were liable from the provisions of that Act.
 Mr. Rose  said, there might be a doubt whether attornies were within the Act of Elizabeth; but he thought apothecaries certainly were; for no man could act as an apothecary, without having served an apprenticeship of seven years.
 Lord Castlereagh  felt no hesitation in expressing his concurrence with the hon. member's principle, as to the propriety of throwing open to British merchants every description of our trade, that to the colonies alone excepted; those colonies having their own system, upon the merits of which system he did not at present think it necessary to state any opinion. But while, he thus concurred with the hon. member, he could not think this the proper time for proposing, the extension recommended by him. Upon bringing forward the proposition before the House, he stated the reason on which he acted. He thought that as there appeared difference of opinion as to the degree of extension proposition had in view, it was desirable to have it enacted before the recess; while the propriety of a further extension, which might give rise to controversy, should be postponed to a more convenient period. For himself, he was free to declare, that he saw no reason why British merchants should not be enabled to compete with foreigners in the sale of Indian produce in any market whatever; and particularly in that which was the most valuable, namely, the mar-
 228
 Mr. Protheroe  said, that he felt peculiarly happy from the statement of noble lord. He confessed that he had been disappointed to find that the principle of the bill before the House was not carried father; but be was satisfied he was satisfied with the noble lord's explanation. As to the India Company, he could not see upon what ground they could feel any jealousy against the proposed or desired extension of the British merchant's trade in Indian produce; because the object of such extension was not to interfere with their interests, but with the interests of foreigners, to whom it was impossible the India Company could be disposed to grant any preference.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  thought that the duty upon brandy should be farther advanced at least two shillings a gallon; which would produce between 40 and 50,000 l
 Mr. Finlay  rose, not, he said, to oppose the motion, but to submit some observations upon the line of policy to which the measure referred. It seemed extraordinary, that the British merchants were in all cases upon at least an equality with foreigners, excepting in places under the dominion of our India Company; and it must strike every reflecting equitable man with surprize, that such a system of inequality should be allowed to exist with regard to territories acquired and maintained by British arms, in which indeed so much British capital was invested. B the Act of last sessions it was, no doubt, provided, that British merchants were allowed to trade with India; but under very many restrictions and limitations, from which foreign merchants trading to the East were entirely free. The foreigner
 226 227
Upon  lord Castlereagh's  moving the committal of the East India Circuitous Trade Bill;
 Mr. C. Grant , after expressing his regret that he was not in the House yesterday, when some observations were made upon the subject of this Bill, which he deemed of considerable importance, requested that any further progress upon it might be postponed. As it materially concerned the interests of the India Company, they naturally required more time for the consideration of a measure, with the merits of which they had but very recently become acquainted; for it was only that day that a copy of this Bill came into the hands of the directors.
 Lord Castlereagh  felt great pleasure in complying with the request of the hon. member, and should therefore postpone his motion until, Monday next. He, however, thought it proper to observe, that he was not aware of the existence of any difference of opinion upon the merits of this Bill; and in agreeing to the postponement required, he did so in the understanding that the measure would be carried before the holidays.
 Mr. Fawcett  observed, that the India Company were not alone interested in this measure, as our manufacturers were also materially concerned. For if British merchants were allowed to carry India produce to the Havannah, the Brazils, and other contiguous places, that produce would be very likely to find its way into our colonies, and interfere with the British manufacturers, whom the trader in East India commodities could easily undersell, from the comparative cheapness of labour and materials in the East. In this view, he thought that the measure before the House required time for very ample consideration.
 Mr. Finlay  rose to correct a misconception of his hon. friend who spoke last, and, who appeared to conceive that the Bill before the House proposed to grant some extraordinary advantages to British merchants; whereas it only went to allow them the same advantages as were already enjoyed by foreigners. For, as the case stood at present, if any Swedish or Russian subject should think proper to trade to India, they might carry India produce to the places mentioned by his hon. friend, and so engage in the competition, he deprecated. But, as far as he was acquainted with the sentiments and interests of British manufacturers, they had no apprehension of any competition likely to be created by this or by any Bill of a similar nature.
 The Attorney General  expressed his wish to state to the House his ideas on a subject which had created a great diversity of opinion. He then adverted to the circumstances of the times in which that law was passed, and to the peculiar situation of the districts which had rendered that law necessary. If, by the salutary terror it had created, order had been re-established, they certainly had obtained an invaluable blessing at a comparatively trifling inconvenience. The present state of Europe, too, added to the operation of that law, had so contributed to restore order and perfect tranquillity, that should the Bill be
 239 240
 Mr. Homer  said, that he should wait to see how this Bill came out of the committee before he made any further observation upon it.
 The Attorney General  said, that the subject last referred to by the hon. gentleman, was under the consideration of government; and that papers were before him (Mr. G.) respecting those courts, which would have been decided upon before now, if he had not wanted that assistance which a recent appointment had happily afforded him [alluding, we suppose, to Mr. Serjeant Shepherd's appointment as Solicitor General].
 Mr. J. Smith  expressed his satisfaction with the change which was proposed to be made in the measure under consideration; and he had no doubt that in consequence of that change it would prove more effectual for its object than the measure to which it was to succeed.
 Mr. Eden  stated, from his experience in the committee respecting transportation to Botany Bay, that evidence appeared directly contradictory to the statement of the learned gentlemen, respecting the comparative conduct of the several classes of transports. According to that evidence, indeed, the persons transported for limited periods were very often reformed while those transported for life generally continued depraved and desperate. The hon. gentleman concluded, with expressing a wish that government would attend to the suggestion of the committee alluded to, with respect to the improvement of the civil and criminal courts.
 Mr. Lockhart , conceiving this Bill to have a natural reference to the principle of the Act of last session, which principle had not then, in his judgment, undergone an adequate discussion, took this opportunity to make a few observations upon it. It was impossible, indeed, as it appeared to his mind, to consider this Bill without adverting to the Act of last session, the difficulties in the execution of which this Bill proposed to remove; and so doubt these difficulties were likely to be obviated by it, the noble author of the original Act having evidently applied great industry and ingenuity to the consideration of the measure. This Act, however, proposing to make a very material alteration in the common law of the country, it was peculiarly the duty of the House to consider the effect of that alteration. The common law had given to a creditor the body of his debtor as a security for payment, and that security this Act proposed in a great measure to take away. As to the crowded state of our gaols which was emphatically dwelt upon as an argument for this extraordinary measure, he could, not believe that that circumstance was owing so much to the obduracy of English creditors, as to the extravagance of debtors. In adverting to the principles of the common law with respect to debtor and creditor, he did not mean to contend that creditors should, possess an uncontrolled discretion over the custody of debtors. On the contrary, he approved of the interposition of the legislature to modify the principle of the common law. But the question was, how that modification should be regulated. If too strict, opportunity would be af-
 233 cessio bonorum, 234 crim. Con. 235
 Sir S. Romilly  thought the hon. member's observations inapplicable to the Bill before the House, and rather referring to the Act of last session; the principle of which was simply, that a debtor should obtain his freedom upon giving up his property. To this Bill, which merely had in view the carrying that principle into effect, and the execution of the Act of last session, he hoped that no obstruction would be given.—As to the hon. member's observations, there was no doubt, that, notwithstanding the present Bill, we must wait to see the operation of the original Act before every defect could be provided against; and probably the hon. member, by turning his attention to the subject, might be able to suggest some useful improvements. The hon. member had stated, that no distinction was made in the Act alluded to, with respect to such debtors as availed themselves of certain legal expedients to increase the costs of their creditors; but the way to cure that evil was not, in his opinion, to make any distinction in this Act, but to do away these expedients themselves. For instance, he could not see the justice of allowing writs of error where there was no substantial error, and where the proceeding only served to produce delay and costs. He thought, therefore, that no writs of error should be allowed, unless such error were certified by two counsel. This change would, in his judgment, prove a very material improvement. He was anxious to attend in all cases to the interest of the creditor as well as that of the debtor; and the state of our law between debtor and creditor appeared to him to be such as to require many serious amendments. It was too harsh towards the person, and too relaxed towards the property of the debtor. He could not; for instance, imagine any reason why freehold and copyhold property, and property in the funds, should not be rendered responsible for the payment of a man's debts. So strongly indeed was he impressed with, this opinion, that it was his
 236
 Sir S. Romilly  thought there was some objection against proceeding in the way recommended by the right hon. gentleman (the Attorney General). It was proposed to continue a law which had been originally introduced as a mere temporary measure, and to keep the terror of that law still in existence, though no occasion for such terror existed. The nature of the original measure would be entirely altered by thus making it permanent. In his opinion, it would be much better to drop the Bill altogether, and bring in a new one. The present Bill had reference merely to stocking and lace-frames. The machinery used in cloth and other manufactures were not at all protected by it; and yet there was no reason why they should not be protected as well as the others—they came under the very same principle. It was a very momentous question, that should not be decided in so hasty a way. With respect to what the right hon. gentleman (the Attorney General) had said on the subject of Botany Bay, there was an important difference of opinion upon that point. The opinion of a gentleman who had been many years governor of Botany Bay was quite contrary. The opinion of that gentleman was, that the persons transported for life were the most desperate and the most incorrigible of the whole colony. They were the very worst there; and the reason he assigned was, because they considered their case desperate; and for that reason they had laid aside all thought of amendment, and corrupted the rest of the prisoners. The report of the committee which had sat upon this subject should be taken into mature consideration. The number of persons likely to suffer under this Bill was extremely small. There seemed to be no necessity for the Bill, but certainly none for making that permanent which was originally temporary, and changing entirely the nature of the punishment. When it was stated the other day in the House, that the Bill might possibly have such an operation, as to subject to death an apprentice for injuring the frames of his master, a worthy alderman said it was monstrous and incredible that such a Bill could have passed the House. Yet the Bill did pass the House, and that worthy alderman himself voted
 241
 Mr. Horner  said, that if the hon. gentleman pressed the postponement of the committee he had little objection to it; but he would suggest to him, that it was desirable this Bill should pass as soon as possible. It was not to be expected, that so great an innovation on the 1aw as this was, could be made perfect at first He thought the exceptions of the hon. gentleman to the Bill required more deliberation than could be given them before the adjournment of the House; and it was probable that, when they met again experience
 243
 Mr. Lockhart  wished that the committee should be postponed till Monday, in order that the House might be better able to consider what amendments it might be necessary to make in the Bill. He had himself looked over it with attention, and had found in it many things which required to be amended. The first was, that the debtor must first swear to his schedule, and then be examined touching the truth of it afterwards. This he considered incongruous, and likely to lead men to perjure themselves. The statement in the schedule of the apparel of the petitioner's wife and family would lead to great inconvenience. The inventory would, in many instances, be very long, and take up a great deal of time. His next objection was, that the debtor was not to be discharged until he had made an assignment of his property to the proper officer. Now he understood that nobody would accept of the office, because, whoever did, would be involved in constant litigation respecting the property so assigned to him. A great inconvenience would arise from the debtor being brought up to be discharged, in custody of the jailor. That would occasion a great expence, when the place of discharge was at a distance from the place of the debtor's confinement. In this Bill also there was no exemption made from the duty on stamps, as in the former. The serving of notices on each of the creditors he thought would be tedious and expensive; and the insertion of the debtor's schedule in the Gazette, and in the newspapers, would be quite sufficient. For these reasons he requested the hon. gentleman would allow the committee on the Bill to stand over till Monday, when he should produce some clauses which he hoped would obviate these defects.
 Mr. Kenrick  said a few words against delay; and in answer to an observation that had been made on a former occasion, that creditors could not compel their debtors to give up their property, he observed, that when the Bill came hereafter to be discussed and amended, it was his fixed determination to propose a clause to compel all debtors who had property of any kind, and were living extravagantly on the same in prison, and laughing at their creditors, to take the benefit of the Act, and to give up their property to their creditors.
 The Attorney General  said, that though the judges could not themselves avoid pronouncing the sentence of the law in cases of felony, yet they could recommend the prisoner to the clemency of the crown, as was always done where there were circumstances of mitigation. He had no objection, however, to have the punishment
 247
 The Attorney General  explained. What he had said with respect to apprentices was, that if an idle apprentice wantonly destroyed the frames of his master, he would not come within the operation of the Act; but that if he wickedly and maliciously did so, either alone or in concert with others, he would be subject to its punishments.
 Mr. J. Smith  expressed his great satisfaction at the abolition in the Bill of the punishment of death. He was fully convinced that it had deterred many persons from prosecuting offenders. Nor would this be surprising, when it was considered that many of those offenders were boys and girls of 16 or 17 years of age. He confessed that he wished the term of transportation had been limited to seven years.
 249
 Mr. Abercrombie  observed, that the object of his hon. and learned friend's proposition to postpone for six months any further proceedings on this Bill, was by no means to leave the property of the lace manufacturers unprotected, but to give time for a more ample consideration than they had hitherto received of two most important questions in the Bill; namely, the quantum of punishment, and the description of the offence. He protested against the doctrines of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite (the Attorney General), which he confessed appeared to him to involve the most severe censure on the existing laws of the country that had ever been uttered within those walls. That hon. and learned gentleman had contended, that no person ought to be transported save for life. If so, where was the justice of annually sending, as we did, so many persons to New South Wales, for seven and fourteen years? Adverting to the condition of that colony, he felt happy, from the inquiries which he had been enabled to make in the committee on the subject, and from other sources, to bear testimony to the progress of that colony in improvement, and to the vigilant attention of government with respect to it. The result of all his examinations was, that the two great purposes of the prosperity of the colony, and the improvement in morals of the inhabitants, were commensurate. This fact afforded an argument against the hon. and learned gentleman, who wished that all transportation should be for life, because, as he contended, in cases of transportation for a limited period, the individuals so transported were restless and unhappy; nothing but the exclusion of all hope of a return to their native country being able to reconcile them to their exile. To the description of offence contained in the Bill he had great objection. The original cause of the measure was the combination of offenders, and to combination alone ought the punishment to apply.
 The Attorney General  proposed an amendment to the clause comprehending the punishment—namely, after the words that "the offender should be transported for life," to add the following, "or for such a term of years, not less than seven, as the judge before whom he may be tried shall think fit to pronounce."
 The Attorney General  repeated his objections to striking the punishment of transportation for life out of the Bill. If no case could exist in which a greater punishment than transportation for 14 years ought to be inflicted, he would adopt the proposition of the hon. and learned gentleman. Besides, that which was called transportation for life, was not, as it had been in the infancy of the colony
 252
 Mr. Bathurst  supported the necessity of enacting a severe punishment to prevent the recurrence of scenes, the terror attendant on which in the neighbourhood in which they had occurred was much greater than that occasioned in London and its neighbourhood by the riots of 1780. The question was, whether or not it was fitting that such a law as that before the House should be on the statute-book? The decided opinion was that it was fitting. He trusted there would be no occasion for its exercise; but if, unfortunately, there should, it was more likely to call for the utmost severity of the law than for its utmost mitigation. The capital punishment was gone from the Bill; and the least that could be substituted was the punishment of transportation for life; and under circumstances in which the gradation of crime must be so extensive, the judge ought to have the power of inflicting the highest punishment on the most atrocious offenders, and of obtaining a milder punishment for those whose guilt was not so extreme.
 Mr. Horner  said, he believed no other person in the House had misunderstood his learned and hon. friend in the same degree as the learned and hon. gentleman who spoke last. He had totally misconceived, not only his expressions, but the whole scope of his argument. He had represented him as palliating the crime of the Luddites. No such thing. He had merely stated that it was a crime arising out of temporary circumstances and temporary irritation, and which might be effectually prevented by temporary punishment. As to the distinction between the idle apprentice, acting wantonly in violation of the law, or in concert with the Luddites, there was no such distinction laid down in the Bill. The question respecting the punishment to be inflicted by the Bill became the more important from the nature of the general doctrine on which it had been supported by his Majesty's Attorney General. The specific punishment denounced by the Bill was transportation for life. But the hon. and learned gentleman contended that the diminution of their punishment would be at the discretion of the judge. The House knew but too well the practice that had prevailed on this subject. The recent discussions on the proposed repeal of some of the old statutes had put them in possession of it. In the times when those statutes were passed, a more extended discretion might be necessary; but was it to be endured, when passing a new penal law, that parliament should be told, "Make the punishment as severe as you can; the judges will take care that it shall seldom be inflicted?" He had always thought that it was the peculiar praise of the British law, possessing as we did judges of great wisdom and unimpeached integrity—that, nevertheless, their discretion in cases of a criminal nature should be narrowed as much as possible. In the best works on jurisprudence it had always been laid down as
 248
 Mr. Horner  declared that it was not in conformity to his opinion that this clause was proposed. He objected to a discretion so large being vested in the judge. It was true, that transportation for life seemed to him to be an unsuitable punishment for the offence described in the Bill; but if it were deemed by parliament suitable, he would much rather it should be absolute, than that the judge should possess such an extensive discretion as the amendment proposed by the hon. and learned gentleman went to give him. If it were not irregular to move an amendment on an amendment, he would move to leave out all the words of the clause after the words "the offender shall be transported," for the purpose of substituting the following, "for a term not exceeding fourteen years, or less than seven."
 Mr. H. Addington  argued against the substitution of the punishment of transportation for seven years for the punishment of transportation for life.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought, that when there must necessarily be so many shades of guilt, discretion was indispensable to the judge.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  denied that his hon. and learned friend (the Attorney General) had said that transportation ought in all cases to be for life. What he had maintained was, that unless the hon. and learned gentleman opposite could show that no offence of the kind described in the Bill could by possibility occur, to which the punishment of transportation for life ought to be applied, that punishment ought to be left as the highest punishment in the power of the judge to inflict, leaving it to his discretion and that of the executive government, in other cases, to reduce the quantum of punishment in proportion to the diminution of the guilt. It had been contended, that the crime described in the Bill ought not to be made a felony, because it was not so immoral an act as the acts which were usually termed felonious. For his part, he could not conceive any act much more immoral than a malicious destruction of the property of others. There were other acts not more atrocious in their character comprehended among felonies. To destroy a turnpike was a felony. With respect to the discretion to be vested in the judge, he maintained that it was not too great. The judge was obliged to pass a particular sentence; transportation for life. But no bad consequence would thence result to the individual, if there had been any favourable circumstances in his conduct; because a representation of those circumstances to the executive authority, would reduce the quantum of punishment. He did not understand, however, that his hon. and learned friend would object to the introduction in the Bill of a clause, giving to the judge, instead of to the executive authority, that discretion, if such a clause would satisfy the hon. and learned gentleman opposite. He would like to know what view the hon. and learned gentlemen opposite took of the crime? Some punishment they would undoubtedly affix to its perpetration. Would that punishment be transportation for seven years? Why in that case, and if that punishment, on the principles of the hon. and learned gentleman, were to be inflicted indiscriminately on all offenders, by far the greater part of them would be in a much worse situation than under the inflictions of the Bill as it stood. He confessed that he, for one, should have been better pleased had the capital punishment not been abolished in the Bill: not, he trusted, because he had any disposition capitally
 251
 Sir S. Romilly  was sorry that the learned and hon. gentleman persisted in this Bill, for which there appeared to be no existing necessity. The conspiracies and disturbances which had occasioned its passing into a law had ceased; and it seemed a strong measure in legislation to make that felony, for which, as a simple act, no legal punishment had, he believed, before existed. The sentence for this offence was to be transportation for life. Now, whatever reasons there might be for preferring transportation for life to transportation for a limited time, in cases of habitual depravity, they could not apply to the present crime, which was the effect of ignorance and momentary delusion. As an instance of the loose and incorrect manner in which the Bill was drawn, sir S. Romilly observed, that the punishment was denounced against all those who entered a dwelling-house with intent to break frames, either by day or by night. How they could enter it, except by day or by night, he was at a loss to conceive.
 Mr. Abercromby  expressed his satisfaction that this motion should have been brought before the House, and met in the cheerful manner it had been. It was impossible to speak with too much regard of the attention and humanity of Mr. Newman; but he must own, that having occasion to visit Newgate two years ago, in his capacity as a member of that House, the state in which he found it made him consider it as a disgrace to this metropolis, especially the wards of the women. He agreed with the last speaker, that women might be less disposed to cleanliness, yet the place was not such as humanity required should be provided for them. Comparing the returns of the average number of prisoners with the capacities of the gaol itself, it was evidently impossible to class the prisoners according to their various shades of offence. That could only be effected by a particular provision for that purpose.
 Mr. Abercromby  contended, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had much misrepresented his hon. and learned friend, whose only regret was, that the hon. and learned serjeant had deferred his objections to the Bill until a stage so late; and who, so far from treating with indifference the opinions of the hon. and learned serjeant, had expressly declared, that there was no one from whom he would more eagerly court discussion on such a subject. He was sure the hon. and learned serjeant must, however, be aware, that even if ultimately he could prevail on the House to adopt his propositions, it could not be until after such mature consideration, and such nice balancing one difficulty against another, that it would be highly inexpedient to press them at the present moment.
 The Speaker  then stated, that, consistently with the regulations of the House, the Bill must how be read a third time; and then any hon. gentleman might offer clauses as amendments, or move to postpone the passing of the Bill.
 The Speaker  said, that the stage at which this could be done was past; and that, according to the regulations of the House, the Bill must be now read a third time.
 Mr. Alderman Smith  spoke generally on the depravity and ill conduct of prisoners, which greatly impeded any exertion made in their behalf.
 Mr. Horner  stated, that if the hon. and learned Serjeant supposed that he had agreed to the recommitment of the Bill, he was in an error; as, instead of advancing it, it would have been taking a step backwards.
 Mr. Horner  expressed his wish to trouble the House with a few words on the subject. As the hon. and learned serjeant had declared that he was favourable to the principle of the  cessio bonorum, 260 cessio bonorum, 261 262 263 l.
 Mr. Horner  observed, that, this was another instance of the inaccuracy of the hon. and learned serjeant, who, nevertheless, had so freely charged others with carelessness and inaccuracy. A great part of the hon. and learned serjeant's invective and declamation had been bestowed on a clause which he had contended constituted a crime unknown to the law, and enacted a punishment destructive of the rights of the subject; and it now appeared, by the hon. and learned serjeant's own confession, that no such clause was in existence; but that, though introduced in the Bill of last session, the House in its wisdom had thought proper to expunge it!
 Mr. Eden  rose to make his intended motion for Papers relative to the present state of Newgate. It was a duty not enjoined by law, but acted upon by grand juries, to visit gaols, and to report on any faults which they might find in their management. In pursuance of this practice, the grand jury of the city of London last week visited Newgate; and their report stated, that in that part of the gaol in which women were confined, and which was not intended to accommodate more than 60 prisoners, not less than 120 were now contained. In the other, consecrated to the debtors, and where only 100 ought to be, they had not found less than 340. To state, that most of these were in want of clothing and bedding, and that the rain beat upon them, might be sufficient to authorize his motion; but he would add a few facts from the evidence of Mr. Newman himself, given before a committee, at the same time that he would do justice to the exertions of that gentleman to do every thing in his power to render the situation of the pri-
 253 254
 Mr. Alderman Combe  followed the same line of argument.
 Mr. Hammersley  declared, that in his opinion, the public were extremely indebted to the hon. and learned serjeant for his endeavour to make a distinction between the unfortunate and the guilty debtor. Any Bill which might pass without such a distinction, would in his opinion be very injurious to the community.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  vindicated Mr. Newman from any blame which might by implication have been attached to him in consequence of the present motion. Every thing was done to keep Newgate in the best order, and in the most cleanly state. If any member of the House looked at that prison in the morning, he would not be ashamed to compare it with any dairy in the country. Much of its inconveniences were to be attributed to the prisoners themselves, and especially the women, whom it was impossible to keep clean. The great grievance was, the too great number of prisoners.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought, that there were two causes of the distresses experienced in Newgate—the one temporary, and the other lasting. The first related to debtors, and he hoped the present Act would remove it. The second, to the hardship of prisoners being compelled to wait till their number was sufficiently considerable to allow of their being transported. To remedy the latter, he thought it would be preferable to select a new place of banishment, and form a new settlement nearer
 256
 Mr. Lockhart  suggested that the clause should be made operative, not on those now in prison for debt, but on those who might hereafter be so.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that the Act of last session had proved wholly inefficient up to the present moment, not a single debtor having been discharged under it. He had no hostility to the Bill whatever. On the contrary, he thought that, properly modified, it might be very serviceable. The hon. and learned serjeant had been unjustly charged by the hon. and learned gentleman with an attempt to introduce a great innovation in the law. All that the hon. and learned serjeant proposed was, to discriminate, if possible, between the unfortunate and the criminal debtor. It might be difficult to do this completely; but the attempt was laudable, and even an approximation to success would be attended with the highest benefits. It was no novelty whatever, to give to persons not in trade the option of taking the benefit of the Insolvent Act. How easy was it now for any person to make himself a trader! He had only, in confederacy with others, to draw and re-draw bills, and he would thus qualify himself to take the benefit of the Insolvent Act. It was so also with the bankrupt laws. An individual had only to prevail on a friend to take out a commission against him, and he could then avail himself of all the benefits of the Act. For his part, he thought the hon. and learned serjeant entitled to the applause of the House and the country, for endeavouring to introduce the discrimination he had alluded to. He was sure, that all the commercial world, and every honest man, would wish, now that parliament was modifying the law on the subject, that some such discrimination should, if possible, be adopted; and that, the
 265
 Mr. Serj. Best  here stated across the table, that he found the clause alluded to,
 264
 Mr. Serjeant Best  thought, that were the Bill to pass without the amendments which he had to propose, it would not perform the office which it was intended to perform. In the original Bill passed last session, there was a clause which he was astonished should have escaped the attention of the members, and should have been allowed to become part of the British law. It was therein enacted, that if a party concealed property to the amount of 20 l. † 257 cessio bonorum, 258 cessio bonorum 259 l.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  proposed his first clause, allowing debtors, whether any action had been brought against them or not, to have the benefit of the Bill.
 Mr. Serj. Best  acquiesced in this suggestion.
 Mr. Serj. Best  next proposed his clause for punishing debtors who defended the actions of their creditors against them as
 266
 Mr. Serjeant Best  had understood, when he gave notice yesterday of his intention to move for the recommitment of the Bill, that his proposal had been agreed to by the hon. gentleman opposite.
 Sir James Shaw  thought that the more the House should inquire into the management of Newgate, the more it would find that everything was done, consistent with existing means, to accommodate the prisoners. The overfulness of the gaol was the cause of their distressed situation; and this was occasioned by the failure in the operation of the Insolvent Debtors' Act. The number of persons confined for debt in Newgate now amounted to 355. It was the object of the city of London to remove all debtors from that gaol; and for that purpose a building was erecting, which would contain about 500 debtors. Nothing, therefore, was wanting on the part of the city of London, in disposition to accommodate that class of individuals. The room provided in Newgate for felons and convicts was not intended for more than 370, and now contained 479.—This was chiefly occasioned by the necessity in which many convicts were placed of waiting till a sufficient number had accumulated to be sent to New South Wales. The sheriffs of London, with that due attention to every branch of their duty by which they had distinguished themselves, had about three weeks ago represented to the noble lord holding the office of his Majesty's secretary of state, the necessity of procuring shipping to ease Newgate of the number of convicts sentenced to transportation which it contained. The reply which they had received was, that every thing possible should be done by government to procure the necessary shipping. When the debtors should be for ever removed from that gaol, and 200 convicts transported, the number that would remain would not then much exceed 300; and the capacity of Newgate would then allow that separation between hardened and new offenders to be made, the propriety of which everyone must acknowledge, while lamenting its present impracticability. He had thought these explanations necessary, when he found that the motion of the hon. gentleman opposite
 255
 Sir W. Curtis  seconded the motion; at the same time, he expressed his firm opinion, that however unfortunate the situation of the prisoners in Newgate was, no blame could be laid on Mr. Newman, who had done every thing which his limited means allowed to improve it.
 The Attorney General  said, the same objection might have been urged last year to the temporary measure, which was then made to the permanent one. He had no objection to the repeal of the former Act, which he believed, however, was not the same as the present.
 Sir S. Romilly  thought that this might be true, where the offence was altered from a misdemeanour into a felony; but not where a more severe punishment was demanded against the same description of offence. l. l.
 Sir S. Romilly  moved, as an amendment, to leave out two words in the Bill. As it at present stood, the debtor was required to make oath as follows:—"At the time of passing this Act I was in custody, and have ever since my commitment been a close prisoner." He proposed to leave out the words "my commitment," which would deprive the prisoner of the benefit of the Act, if at any time since his being first committed to prison, he had either escaped from prison, or had his liberty allowed him, though it might have been ten years ago.
 Sir S. Romilly  stated, that an Act of the 28th of the King, making the same offence, or nearly the same offence, felony, was already on the statute book; and asked whether there was any intention to repeal that Act on passing the present?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the greater part of this subject had already been discussed. He admitted, that difficulties generally arose in the collection of ad valorem duties. In the present instance, the collection was experimental, and might be improved by the respite of experience. Notice had been
 268
 Mr. Grant  said, he could not help expressing his apprehensions, that the proposed Bill would be found to militate against a principle which, till of late, seemed to have been considered as fundamental in the commercial policy of this nation; namely, that the metropolitan country should be the centre of all the foreign trade of its distant dependencies; India, as well as those possessions strictly called colonies. This was the doctrine held in the long administration of Mr. Pitt, and particularly applied to India by the late lord Melville. Upon the first intimation, in the discussions on the renewal of the charter, of a wide departure; from this policy, Mr. Grant said he had lifted up his feeble voice against it. 269 270 271
 Lord Castlereagh  flattered himself that he had so narrowed the operation of the Bill, that it would not occasion any very serious difference of opinion. He had
 272 273
 Mr. Grant , in explanation, said, he had not considered India as if it were tinder our colonial system, having expressly spoken of the rights of other European nations settled in that country. Nor had he treated the present question as the India Company might be affected by it, but upon principles of national policy.
 Mr. Robinson  re-stated several of the arguments urged by his hon. friend (Mr. Grant), though he admitted that the expulsion of the islands from the Bill would remove much of his objection to it. He condemned, however, the privilege which private vessels were to enjoy of carrying on the coasting trade in India. He had understood that those vessels were to be permitted to go from port to port in India, for the purpose of selling their outward, and of purchasing their homeward cargo; but he had not been aware, that it was intended to allow them to interfere with the Company's shipping interest in the coasting trade.
 Mr. Harvey  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better Preservation of Wild Fowl; such as wild ducks, teal, widgeons, &c. The Acts of Anne and George 2 on this subject contained no provision against the destruction of wild fowl which were the property of individuals, by firing at them: and he was desirous of proposing a penalty for this offence, when committed within a certain distance of a decoy, by persons not entitled to do so. Leave was given, the Bill was brought in, read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time on the 3d of March, 1814.
 Mr. Fawcett  made several observations on the Bill. It seemed necessary that those who were to apportion the ad valorem duty at the outports, should understand the quality and value of the articles imported: particularly the cotton goods. Sugar also required some regulations; there being a great difference in the prices of East and West India sugar, the freight of the former being so much more expensive.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  was proud to see that this Bill was likely to extend the intercourse to India through British shipping. He thought the noble lord had most accurately laid down the true principles which should guide the practical merchant, as well as the statesman. If, in order to gain exclusive advantages, we were lay on duties, or embarrass the trade of foreigners, they might also lay on counter duties; and in this manner the general interests of commerce might be injured, with out our obtaining those advantages which the fair principle of competition might
 275
 Mr. Finlay  thought it evident, that the Capital of the East India Company was not sufficient to embrace the whole trade of India, as well as China; and that it
 274
 Mr. R. Thornton  expressed the satisfaction which he felt, and which he was sure the India Company would feel, at the noble lord's having consented to except the islands from the Bill; apprehending, as they did, that those islands would otherwise form a depôt, whence to supply England at present, and foreign Europe at a future period. Neither were they very partial to the concession which was now to be made to British merchants, of allowing them to embark in the coasting or carrying trade of India. They knew that the merchants were to be allowed to go from port to port in India, for the purpose of disposing of their cargoes, or collecting freight; but they conceived that the coasting trade should be left to the country ships. Although he was not much alarmed at the present Bill, he confessed that he did feel alarm at what had fallen from the noble lord, as to measures that he might propose at a future time. He hoped that evil day, however, would never arrive; and while be thanked the noble lord for the liberality he had shewn upon the present occasion, be trusted, that it would be an encouragement to him to continue that liberality.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had been asked last year whether any measures were in the contemplation of government to remedy the abuses arising from the debasement of the copper currency; and he was now happy to confirm the answer which he had then given. The consideration of expence would no longer deter them from calling in the old Tower halfpence, and the issue of a new coinage would soon make the counterfeit halfpence and tokens disappear. He wished the intention of government to be made as public as possible, as it might prevent persons from incurring considerable loss by the manufacture of copper tokens.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  asked for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Madder Act, just passed; and to bring in another on the same, subject. There was, unfortunately, a material omission in the Act; the word. 'Madder,' which was the principal word, having been omitted throughout. [A laugh.]
 Mr. Pascoe Grenfell  rose to move for certain papers respecting the state of the copper currency. He had at the close of the last session offered some observations on this subject to the House. The information he had since received, and the observations he had made in passing through several parts of the country, convinced him that he had not over-rated the inconveniencies and mischiefs arising from the redundancy of the copper coin in circulation. They were not owing, however, to the redundancy of the legal coin, but of the counterfeit halfpence and copper tokens, not authorized by the law of the land. He had made some calculations, to shew the mischief arising from the circulation of the counterfeit halfpence. It appeared, that a pound of real copper was made into 76 of these halfpence, which were in value equal to 3 s. d. d. l l. 277
 Mr. Whitbread  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Whitbread  expressed his high satisfaction in the measure which was thus announced to be in the contemplation of government.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, to express his entire concurrence express his entire concurrence in the sentiments of the hon. and learned gentleman, and his satisfaction at the manner in which he had introduced his resolutions. Whatever might be his opinion of the Bill that was to act retrospectively, it was undoubtedly proper to prevent the introduction of clauses which would cause so great a disparity in the condition of the poor in different parts of the kingdom, and place them under such very different treatment.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  also concurred in the sentiments of his, honourable and learned friend (Mr. Horner), and begged leave to offer him his thanks for the care and attention he had bestowed on this subject. None of those clauses would have been passed, if the attention of the House had been properly directed to the subject. When renting a house of 10 l.
 Mr. Harney  approved of the proposed regulations; but trusted, that they would not exclude such clauses from being moved in a committee of the whole House, in cases where it might be necessary and beneficial to alter the common law of the land, as applicable to particular districts. With regard to the power vested in the governors of poor-houses to inflict corporal punishment, he apprehended there could be but one opinion upon the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished the hon. gentleman to take a little time for consideration before he incorporated the proposed amendment; as there were many cases in which it was proper to allow of the employment of the poor under the discretion of the trustees.
 The Speaker  suggested to the hon. mover, that a standing order was a perpetual order; and that, as he meant these to be only experimental, it would be better to move them in the way of resolutions; it being competent to him or any other hon. member, at the end of the session, to move, without amendment, if thought proper, that they be considered as standing orders of the House.
 Mr. Horner  rose to submit
 279 280
 Mr. Horner  expressed his willingness to adopt the suggestion of his hon. and learned friend, and proposed to alter the first resolution by inserting the words, "or employment," after the word "settlement."
 Mr. Kenrick  concurred in the resolutions which were proposed; and postponed the introduction of his Bill till the 3rd Match.
 Sir S. Romilly  said he did not wish to press the alteration at present; after which it was withdrawn, and the several Resolutions then passed unanimously.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  concurred in these resolutions; but suggested that they ought to be carried still further. There was another description of clauses, as exceptionable as those which had been stated by his hon. and learned friend, and to which he had himself called the attention of the House. He meant those clauses which empowered the trustees to employ the poor in a manner not authorised by law; such as farming them out at their pleasure, or disposing of them to those who wished to hire them by the day, or such other term as was agreed on.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that it was his
 284
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he was not privy, before the Prince of Orange's departure, to any determination on the part of his serene highness with respect to the government that was to be established; nor did he believe that his serene highness had come to any such determination; as what was called the provisional government already exercised the administration from which he had received the invitation. That the form of government which had been adopted was the result of the spontaneous and unanimous wish of the people of Holland of all parties; as much of those who were formerly the enemies of the House of Orange, and who were now among its most, zealous partizans, as of those who had always been attached to it. That what appeared in the Gazette was a notice of the appointment of our ambassador to the government of Holland. That in making this appointment the King's government had an anxious desire to abstain from any interference with the domestic concerns of that country. That the credentials to lord Clancarty had been purposely delayed, until his Majesty's government knew what form of government was established in Holland; and it was not until it was communicated to our ambassador, under what title the Prince of Orange was to exercise the government, that the credentials were sent to him in the form it had appeared.
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose to state, that in consequence of what had passed, and upon other grounds of constitutional and parliamentary policy, he should, with his present views of public duty, feel himself bound to resist an adjournment for a much longer period than, the usual recess of parliament; unless the mover should lay as strong ground for such a proceeding, before the House, as a minister would think necessary, if upon his ministerial responsibility he had brought down a recommendation to the same effect from the crown.
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose and observed, that, in consequence of having observed in the London Gazette of last Saturday, a new designation given, to his Majesty's ambassador at the Hague, and a new sovereignty announced as subsisting in the territory which, in the ancient order of Europe, had been subject to the Republic of the United Provinces (a government which after two centuries, generally of the closest amity with England, had at length been destroyed upon the sole and avowed ground of alliance with his Majesty), he had deemed it his duty to come to the House yesterday, as soon as he had seen official and authentic evidence of so great a revolution, to put a question respecting it to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Circumstances known to that noble lord had induced him to postpone the question till to-day. He was aware that he was precluded by the usage of parliament from introducing it by any preliminary observations; and if he had not been so, he should have imposed the same restraint voluntarily upon himself; for he could assure the noble lord, that, though he trusted he should always boldly perform his public duty whenever he thought that he clearly perceived it, yet be felt, as strongly as the noble lord could, the painful delicacy of the subject; and he should assuredly, do nothing, either now or hereafter, to aggravate the difficulty which naturally be longed to it. He then stated his question as follows: 283
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, that the House, on its rising, should adjourn to Monday next; on which day, he begged leave to state, it was the intention of his noble friend (lord Castlereagh) to move an adjournment, till the 1st of March.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for the House resolving itself into a committee of Supply. He hoped that it would not be thought irregular in him, to take this opportunity of endeavouring to remove a misapprehension which had taken place, in consequence of a statement of what had fallen from him in answer to a question which had been put to him by an hon. gentleman (Mr. Grenfell). The misapprehension and alarm which it had caused had already produced very serious inconveniencies, particularly among, the lower classes. The question was, with respect, to the copper currency; and he was sorry to find, that from some misapprehension of what he had said in reply there had been a pretty general discredit of the Tower halfpence, which were issued by his Majesty's proclamation, were the legal copper currency of the land, and unquestionably a lawful tender in those payments which could be made in copper currency. He was sure, that no person who had at-
 285
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that the statement now made was precisely what he understood the right honourable gentleman as having said upon a former occasion, The only object of his question was, to remove from circulation the base and adulterated copper coin, or local tokens, which were before taken in payments; and to have the Tower halfpence called in at their full value; either to be paid in Bank notes, or to be replaced by a new coinage. He could not avoid returning his thanks to the right hon. gentleman, for the very fair and manly way in which he had met the question; and he hoped that he would not allow himself to be diverted from his resolution by any clamour that might be setup by persons interested in continuing the circulation of a base and adulterated coin.
 Lord Castlereagh  said that he felt no difficulty in replying to two of the questions put to him by the hon. and learned gentleman. The document which he had mentioned was authentic. He had also the satisfaction to state, that a perfect concert existed among all the allies with respect to the measures that had been adopted; every proceeding having been marked by the utmost spirit of cordiality. What those measures were, however, or what had been the result, of them, he trusted the hon. and learned gentleman would not press him to declare.
 Lord Castlereagh  then proceeded to move, that, at its rising, the House should to Tuesday the 1st of March. It was the state of parliamentary business that induced him to propose this long adjournment. The House had sat uninterruptedly from its meeting; and in the
 301
 Colonel St. Paul , in a maiden speech, observed, that when he had understood that the adjournment was to have been opposed, he had expected to have met with some solid objections to that measure; but instead of this he had heard a most feeble opposition, in which it was singular that there was not a word applicable to the question of adjournment. He had much respect for the talents of the hon. member who had opposed the motion before the House; and he had hoped to have received the benefit of them on the questions respecting the East India Company, with which that hon. and learned member must have been conversant; but, instead of this, they had a display of his eloquence on the subject of an adjournment, in which the whole House concurred. The question was one of confidence in the ministry; and from what he had heard that night there were grounds of confidence, and not of distrust, in the advisers of the crown; nor was the hon. member entitled to arrogate to himself more solicitude for the general welfare than any one of those members who concurred in the adjournment. He was happy, however, at the opportunity which this opposition afforded him to express his confidence in his Majesty's ministers. For though the hon. and learned gentleman had placed his opposition on the more delicate footing of the critical juncture of affairs; yet the main point of the question was, whether the House had enough confidence in the ministers to trust them for two months? A more finical opposition to any measure he had never heard in that House; but he trusted they had enough confidence in the ministers, and in the Regent, whose provident and comprehensive mind—[Here calls of order, and laughter, prevented the hon. gentleman from concluding his sentence]—To the heads of the adminis-
 318
 Mr. Abercrombie  said, that the declaration of his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread) had much relieved his mind; for he held it to be of the utmost importance on great occasions, to maintain as an inviolable rule, that we should not interfere in the internal affairs of other states. The change of the constitution in Holland was to be regretted, he thought, on account of the other states on the continent, and might be injurious to the alliance; because the concurrence of many states in the attempts to effect the deliverance of Europe must have been in the hopes of ameliorating their internal condition. As to the reasons which were to induce them to concur in a measure perhaps not sanctioned by the principles, certainly not by the practice, of the constitution, it had been stated, that there were grounds for confidence in ministers. He (Mr. A.) should belie his whole conduct if he had said that they possessed his confidence. The sentiments in the King's, speech did honour to the advisers of the crown, and their acts since had concurred to prove them sincere; the Declaration of the Allies, also, he confessed deserved all
 321 322
 Mr. Prothcroe  agreed in general with the hon. gentleman who had preceded him (Mr. Abercrombie), and deprecated the inversion of the seasons among the fashionable world, which the parliament was about to countenance, by allotting to a residence in town that part of the year which nature designed for a residence in the country. He gave credit to Mr. Whitbread for the conduct which, as the hon. gentleman expressed it, combined all that was honourable in loyalty with all that was consistent in patriotism. Never (he remarked) had there been a session when so much had been done and so little said. The House had hitherto invigorated the powers of government by an almost unparalleled unanimity; and he hoped that there would be now no disposition to impede their proceedings. They might address the House in the eloquent language which Mr. Burke had used to his constituents: "If we droop, encourage us; if we fall, console us; if we succeed, applaud us; let us pass on, for God's sake, let us pass on."
 Mr. Horner  observed, that the first part of the noble lord's reply afforded sufficient proof of the property of his (Mr. H.'s) enquiry.
 Mr. Horner  begged leave to ask a question or two of the noble lord, his Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. A document had been received in this coun-
 300
 Mr. P. Grenfell  said, he was more convinced than when he had entered the House of the propriety of the lengthened adjournment. As to confidence to be reposed in his Majesty's ministers, he thought that if there was a time when it became the ministers to ask, or the House to repose this confidence, it was the present. The late glorious events showed the title of ministers to this confidence; and as far as his individual voice went, they had it.
 Mr. Whitbread , I heard with pleasure from the hon. member who has just spoken, who, from his manner of expressing his feelings, must have felt very strongly when silent [a laugh], his satisfaction at my conduct; but when I afterwards heard also his approbation of the conduct of the member for Liverpool, I felt rather surprised that the hon. gentleman was able to chime in with both of us, as there are no two men whose views of political subjects can be more discordant. As to the speech of my hon. and learned friend (sir J. Mackintosh) who has opposed the adjournment, on the accession of whose talents I congratulate the House and the country and than whom, on questions of public law, there is no one more competent to instruct the House; I wonder at the application made of it to any party; and still more at the epithet finical, which the hon. gentleman who spoke last was pleased to bestow
 319 320
 Sir James Mackintosh  then rose and spoke to the following effect:— 302 303 304 305 306 307 308 309 310 311 312 313 314 315 316 317
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, that the adjournment of parliament to so distant a period was not proposed on the ground of confidence in ministers. Indeed, if it had been, still it would not have met his concurrence; for the House had no right to repose such a confidence in ministers as would lead to a virtual abdication of its functions. He should not attempt to follow his hon. friend (sir J. Mackintosh) through the various points of his admirable speech; for which, in common with the House, he felt himself highly indebted to him, and which he was astonished to
 323
