333 said, the reason, which induced him to wish for the postponement of the committees was that, in consequence of the existing state of public affairs, he had a communication to make to the House from his royal highness the Prince Regent, which communication he would make; namely. "That, it being the pleasure of his royal highness the Prince Regent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, that the parliament should be adjourned until Monday the 21st day of this instant March, his Royal Highness desires that this House, will adjourn itself until Monday the 21st
333The Chancellor of the Exchequer
335, in reply, defended, on the ground of precedents, the propriety of his having moved for the postponement of the committees before the made the communication to the House from the Prince Regent; but the right hon. gentleman spoke in a tone of voice
335The Chancellor of the Exchequer
336 said, that no man could
336Mr. Ponsonby
, when he considered the advanced period of the session, and the length of the adjournment which had already taken place, felt himself compelled to resist the motion of the right hon. gentleman. He would ask the House, whether, if they could have foreseen, when they agreed to the late adjournment, that at the end of two months a still farther delay would be asked, they would have consented so readily as they then did? He wished to throw no embarrassment in the way of his Majesty's ministers; but he really could not see in what way the sitting of the House would embarrass them. The quantity of papers exhibited that day in the House was a strong reason for opposing the adjournment.Lord Archibald Hamilton
 expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman had abstained from assigning any reasons for these propositions.Mr. Tierney
334 observed, that although every one had anticipated the communication which had just been announced by the right hon. gentleman, yet it was certainly surprising that the right hon. gentleman had not preferred making the communication the preliminary step to the postponement of the committees, instead of making the postponement of the committees the preliminary step to the communication. If he were not aware, that such was the usual style of a communication of that nature—namely, that it was his Majesty's 'pleasure' the House should adjourn, he confessed that he should think it rather an ungracious mode of expression. It was certainly, however, justified by the precedents on the Journals. He did not rise by any means to oppose the adjournment; to which, on the contrary, he should assent with the same readiness as he did to the last proposition of that nature. Nor would he express either disappointment, or hope, or fear, with respect to the events that had taken place since their last meeting, or that might be taking place at that moment. It was his wish cautiously to abstain from any observations on the subject; reserving himself until the period when that information should be afforded, to which he, the House, and the country, looked with confident expectation. But although he had no hesitation in voting for an adjournment, and for an acquiescence in the pleasure of his royal highness the Prince Regent, yet he owned that he entertained some apprehensions lest the present proceedings should be drawn into a pernicious precedent. He was not without his fears, that when the circumstances of the times should not be well recollected, posterity might accuse those who consented to the present proposition, of an abandonment of their duty to their constituents.—He was aware, that in 1799 an adjournment of a much longer duration even than that, the termination of which had this day assembled the House, had been proposed, and without difficulty acceded to; but that was at a period of the session at which the public business did not press so heavily as it had pressed during the late recess, and would necessarily press during that which was about to take place. Therefore, although he did not regret having voted for the last ad-
334Mr. Whitbread
332331 observed that the appointment which had occasioned the necessity for the motion just made by the hon. gentleman appeared to him to be so objectionable in its nature, that he should not consider himself as having properly discharged his parliamentary duty, unless he called the attention of the House for a few moments to the subject. It was not his intention to make any motion respecting it; he had not heard that such was the intention of any other hon. member. The present, therefore, was the only opportunity which he could ever have to make the observations that seemed to him to be so necessary. He understood that his Majesty's Attorney General, who had recently accepted the high judicial office described in the hon. gentleman's motion, had not resigned the office of Attorney General, and did not mean to resign it; but that it was his intention to hold the two offices together. To him (sir S. R.) it appeared that the two offices were wholly incompatible. To appoint a gentleman holding a lucrative office at the sole pleasure of the crown (and removable from that office the very moment that he might give dissatisfaction to the crown) to a high judicial situation, was in his opinion extremely inconsistent with that independence of the judicial character which it was so important to preserve inviolate. It could not be out of the knowledge or the recollection of most of the honourable persons who heard him, that early in his Majesty's reign, and on a very memorable occasion, his Majesty was pleased to state to parliament, that it appeared to him that the independence of the judges was essential to the impartial administration of justice, to the preservation of the liberty of the subject, and to the maintenance of the honour of the crown. He could not think that these sacred considerations were attended to in the appointment of a gentleman to a high judicial office, who, as he had before observed, held at the same time another office, very lucrative, in its nature, and from which he was removable at the pleasure of the crown at any moment at which the crown might think fit so to remove him. Besides, it was evident that to place as judge over the subject an attorney General,
332331Sir Samuel Romilly
 said, that nothing of the kind was intended; but it must be obvious to the House, that supplies were necessary to be taken for the public service; and all he should propose would be, to take such sums as were expedient for the different branches, whenever they might be wanted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in reply, said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that various sums had been voted for the purposes in question: of these, there had certainly, been a considerable portion remitted. But he could not take upon himself to say that any sum had been sent beyond what was authorised by parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
338 then rose to call the attention of his Majesty's ministers to a subject that appeared to him of the utmost importance. At a time when it was known that the word 'peace' was so unpleasing to many ears, he thought that if we were now to conclude a peace with France, care should be taken that the country should not be reproached with having deserted those interests which were entitled to protection.
338Lord Ossulston
 spoke to order. If the noble lord had either risen to ask a question, or to give a notice, it was irregular to introduce his notice, or his question, with so many observations.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it seemed to be the general feeling that a peace was soon to take place. He did not know upon what foundation this hope was built; but whether or not the expectation should be realised—Lord Ossulston
 said, that the Address proposed by the noble lord embraced a political question of very great importance. He conceived, that his lordship had gone beyond the usages of the House in bringing forward such a subject without previous notice. He doubted whether the gentlemen on the same side with his lordship were not as much taken by surprise as he was. He would decline discussing a matter of such moment, and thought, that in abstaining from any observations he should best consult the common feeling, of the House on the present occasion. In order to get rid of the question of the noble lord, he should simply move the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose, and said, he was quite surprised that the day had passed over, without any gentleman on the other side giving notice of a motion of thanks to lord Wellington for his late brilliant victory. Such motions usually came from men in office; but if they did not think proper to give such notice, it might then become the duty of some gentlemen not in office to bring it forward.Mr. Wynne
 replied, that the gentleman was mistaken; as there were several instances on record of meetings of that House for more than a single day after news of a victory, without voting thanks to the conqueror. However, he would merely hint, that ministers had this particular motive for delay, that they had reason to hope very shortly to hear, from lord Wellington, of another victory, and other events equally brilliant.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 presented several Financial Estimates; on whichMr. Arbuthnot
 said, that it did not follow, from no notice of such motion having been given on that night, that it was not the intention of ministers to propose such a motion.Mr. Bathurst
 said that this was, he could venture to say, the first time the House had met a single day after news had been received of a great victory, without voting its thanks to the hero who had gained it.Mr. Whitbread
.—"You mean to club them both, then." [A laugh].—Adjourned.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that although, in the present state of affairs, it was by no means his wish to provoke any discussion, yet it were to be wished that ministers would give some information to the House of their intentions respecting the supplies. At all events, he trusted that nothing conclusive on this subject would be adopted before the Easter recess.Mr. Whitbread
 repeated his question, and received a similar answer.Mr. Whitbread
 then expressed his desire to know, whether it was true, that considerable sums of money had been transmitted during the recess to foreign powers our allies, without any communication having been made to parliament on the subject, or even without any fund being appropriated for that purpose?Mr. Whitbread
 rose, from a sense of what was due to his own character, and more especially as a member of that House, to contradict certain statements which had appeared in the public prints, implicating him in an imposition that had lately been practised in the money market. For the present, he should content himself with solemnly declaring, that those statements were utterly unfounded; and that he had no hand in, and no knowledge of, the fraudulent transaction in question. It was his intention, in a few days, to publish a statement which would be found fully to confirm the declaration that he now solemnly made to the House.The Hon. Cochrane Johnstone
341 rose to move for a new writ for the borough of Inverness, &c. The right hon. gentleman stated, that his hon. friend (Mr. Charles Grant), having accepted the office of one of the lords of his Majesty's Treasury, had in consequence
341The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that no one could possibly have any objection to such a Bill. But the necessity of it, in the present instance, proved still more the propriety of doing away altogether the oaths taken out of the House. He had introduced a Bill to that effect in the last session; but it had been lost elsewhere; owing, as it was stated, to a most unaccountable fear manifested by what was called the Protestant interest, that Roman Catholics might, in the first session of a parliament, introduce themselves into the House, to influence the nomination of a Speaker—[a laugh.]Mr. Wynne
 expressed his satisfaction at the measure proposed by the hon. gentleman; but wished to know whether, or not, Gibraltar and Malta were to be within the scope of the Bill.Mr. Baring
 replied, that Gibraltar would; and Malta if it should become a cession to the crown.Mr. Goulburn
340 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend an Act of the 22d of the King, which went to provide that no office in
340Mr. Goulburn
346345 declared that he must object even to the introduction of such a Bill into parliament. He did perfect justice to the motives of the hon. and learned gentleman in again proposing the measure; and he hoped equal justice would be done to his (Mr. Yorke's) motives in resisting it. He regretted this the more, because he must always be disposed to doubt his own judgment when put in competition with that of the hon. and learned gentleman. He was however, one of those who thought that a trifling inconvenience was no ground for an innovation on the ancient law of the land. He was sorry to understand that the Bill was the same as that which the House so properly rejected last session; for he had hoped that what had been urged on that occasion would have inclined the hon. and learned gentleman to omit at least that part of the Bill which related to at-
346345Mr. Yorke
342 presented a Petition, signed by two thousand useful artisans, whose business was, that of building ships in the port of London; complaining of an evil, extending not alone to themselves, but to the interests of the country.—The Petition stated, that shipbuilding in the private yards, on the river Thames, had, of late, not only sunk into decay, but had been totally annihilated. As illustrative of this fact, it stated, that there were belonging to different persons, on the bank of the Thames, private yards, in which there were forty-one slips for building ships; and in the whole of these yards, there was but one ship building. That of docks for repairing ships, double and single, there were fifty-one
342Sir S. Romilly
344343 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to take away the corruption of blood, in cases of attainder for high treason and felony. He expressed a hope, that in again bringing forward this subject, which had been so fully discussed in that House during the last session, he should not be accused of improper perseverance. He was apprehensive that the real object of the Bill which he had introduced on a former occasion had not been correctly understood—a circumstance which was perhaps attributable to the imperfect manner in which he had explained himself on moving for leave to bring it in. The Bill, the introduction of which he had now in view, was precisely similar to that presented to the House before. The House would call to their recollection, that, by the law as it at present stood, a man convicted of high treason forfeited all his lands, all his goods and chattels, and all his personal property. With regard to persons attainted of felony, they only forfeited their lands for one year, and all their goods and chattels, and personal effects. The Bill which he should bring in would not at all vary this law; for it should pass into an Act, persons attainted of the crime of high treason would, as heretofore, forfeit all their lands and property of every description. Whether this was a wise or just law, or not, or whether it was expedient, when the law had removed a man from society, that his property should be confiscated, and a punishment thereby fall on the innocent individuals whom he had left behind, or not, was a matter which had nothing to do with the present Bill. That law would
344343Sir S. Romilly
351350 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the grateful attention of the House to the recent glorious services of the marquis of Wellington, and his brave army. In reverting to the many occasions on which the noble marquis had received the thanks of parliament, it might appear that every topic of panegyric was utterly exhausted. There was scarcely a display of military courage and skill, whether manifested in the open field, in the assault of a fortress, or in that system of persevering vigilance by which the strength of an army actually inferior, was rendered equal in value to that of a force, numerically superior, in which lord Wellington had not, for his brilliant success, received the warm and unanimous approbation of his country. It was necessary for him to do little more than point out the distinguishing features of the late gallant achievements. The circumstances of the long contest in the peninsula, and subsequently in France, which lord Wellington had maintained with such increasing fortune, were as various as the qualities and resources of his comprehensive and energetic mind. In order to enable the House justly to estimate
351350The Chancellor of the Exchequer
354 said, however highly lord Wellington might appreciate the thanks of the House, yet he believed the highest gratification he could receive would be the exertions made at home to second the objects which he was endeavouring to accomplish; for on those exertions it depended,
354Lord Kirkwall
 censured some of the provisions of the Act under which the prosecutions were commenced. They attached punishment not to the offence which they were intended to guard against, but to the simple fact of non-residence under any circumstances. In the whole penal code, he thought no other instance could be found, where the punishment was made consequent on the omission of a form, and not on the commission of a crime. Whoever its author was, he hoped he would co-operate to do away provisions which were proved to be bad, and enact those which might do good.Mr. Wetherall
 thought it hard for the informer, when he called for what he was entitled to by law, that the House should step in, to prevent his recovering the penalties. In a case of such extreme difficulty, he could have wished that each petition had been referred to a committee, where a counter-statement or petition could have been made or put in by the informer.Mr. C. W. Wynne
 explained.Mr. C. W. Wynne
least culpable359, in reply, said, it was not a new case, that a law should not exactly answer the purpose for which it was framed, or that it should be perverted in its application. He thought the process recommended by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynne) one that it would have been
least culpable359Mr. Bathurst
357l.l.l.356 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to stay prosecutions and actions commenced against spiritual persons for penalties under the 43d of the King. The right hon. gentleman repeated those observations which he had made on a former occasion, on the great hardships to which the persons against whom these actions had been instituted had been exposed. He remarked also, that in most cases where the parties had laid themselves open to the operations of the Act, their offence consisted more in neglecting to apply for licences to the bishops of their diocese, than in any actual inattention to those duties, the performance of which the Act of the 43d of the King was meant to enforce. In illustrating this proposition, he referred to a list of persons against whom actions had been commenced by Mr. Wright, in the diocese of the bishop of London. These persons in number amounted to 92; and of the whole of them two only were without a rational excuse for the offences imputed to them, which were those of non-residence, and a neglect to obtain licences for such non-residence from their bishop. In some cases the informer had laboured under a mistake altogether, as the incumbents had actually resided constantly on their livings; in others, where there were two preferments, they had invariably resided on one of them; and the only charge to be brought against them was, that of not having notified on which they had resided, to the bishop; while a third class had resided in their parishes, although not in the vicarage, either from the want of a house, or from the dilapidated state of the dwelling which their livings afforded. The persons, in strictness, became amenable to the provisions of the Act in question; and many of them, if the penalties
357l.l.l.356Mr. B. Bathurst
 spoke shortly in favour of the Bill.Mr. Preston
358 was sorry, that the learned, civilian with whom the Bill originated, under which these prosecutions had been, commenced, had left the House this day. He could have hoped from him some explanation, which might have been an apology for the House having passed an Act which had produced effects so diametrically opposite to those which were expected from it. But as the learned member for the University of Oxford had thought proper thus to leave them, it was fitting for those who were present to state what occurred to them on this subject. Some few years ago, the Bill under which these prosecutions were instituted was prepared by a learned gentleman of great talents, who took the business out of the hands of a county member, to secure the clergy from prosecutions under certain Acts of Henry the 8th. This Bill was passed by the Commons, sent by them to the Lords, and passed there also; and now that it had been in operation eleven years, another Bill was to be brought in, to save persons from being ruined by penalties under this Act, whose conduct, it should seem, had been not only innocent, but meritorious. Those who remembered the proceedings on that Bill, and who heard the speeches then delivered, must be struck with what they had heard that day.—At that time it was contended, that every thing ought to be done to induce informers to come forward. For this purpose, it was thought right that the whole of the penalties should go to the informers. It was then said to be desirable that every encouragement should be given to them; they were not then held up to reproach as noxious persons; but the moment an informer came forward, certain that he was right according to law, the House was first called upon to suspend the proceedings which had been instituted against the clergy; secondly, to continue that suspension; thirdly, to crush the prosecutions; and fourthly, they would be called upon to alter the law. One instance had come to his knowledge, of a clergyman in the diocese of Norwich, who had performed the duty of two churches between thirty and forty years, and in all that time had not been absent so many days. Nevertheless, he was now prosecuted for penalties, which, if the law were enforced, must send him to a jail. This
358Mr. Whitbread
l.352 rose to second the motion. Those who looked into the Journals of the House would know that its thanks had repeatedly been given to the duke of Marlborough, whose exploits he compared with those of the subject of the Vote of Thanks which had been moved. He then recapitulated the honours which had been conferred on the duke of Marlborough. In 1702 he first received the
l.352Mr. Whitshed Keene
l.was353 said, as an Irishman, and a representative of that country which gloried in the proud birth of the illustrious individual who was the object of the vote of thanks now proposed, he should not be doing justice to those who sent him to that House, if he contented himself with a silent vote on the present occasion. "And, Sir," said the hon. baronet, "it I had a voice" (the increased loudness of his tone removed all dubiety on this subject, and excited a general laugh) "which I could extend even beyond the doors of this House, I would exert every nerve on
l.was353Sir Frederick Flood
 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to propose that there should be granted an additional two millions, on account of the army extraordinaries; making, with three millions formerly granted, the sum of five millions. This sum was much beneath what would be required for the service of the current year. The sums voted for the service of last year amounted to nine millions; and the sums required this year would not certainly be less. This grant, he hoped, would not now be opposed; as opportunities would afterwards arise for discussion, when ministers should find it necessary to come again before parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, if it was unpleasant to the House to grant such large sums of money, without being supplied with the information which was now demanded by the right hon. gentleman, it was much more unpleasant to those who came forward to ask the House to repose a confidence in them to such an extent. The right hon. gentleman had led the House into an error, in stating that the grants already made amounted to the sum of 35 millions. In this sum would be included the sums voted for the service of the Navy and Exchequer bills. [No, said Mr. Tierney.] The right hon. gentleman would, he believed, find it hard otherwise to make up his 35 millions.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
vice versa.365 observed, that if he had 35 millions voted, without any controul as to its particular application,
vice versa.365The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that no great branch of the supply could be so applied.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 requested the hon. member not to enter into any argument, but to confine himself to a simple notice.The Speaker
364 could not help lamenting that a necessity should exist for bringing forward the present demand, as it was placing the House in a very awkward situation. The House had now met, after two long adjournments. When the first adjournment was proposed by his Majesty's ministers, it was unanimously agreed to. They had previously obtained from the House, grants to the extent of not less than 35 millions.—When the House again met, they were called upon by his royal highness the Prince Regent, without any assigned reason, to adjourn for another long period. And now, when they were again met, without being informed of the present state of affairs, or what had been done with the sums which the House had entrusted to the management of his Majesty's ministers, they were called on for other two millions. If this matter could be postponed for a few days, till the House should know what had been done with the sums already voted, it would be to him personally agreeable; for the present grant would be noticing less than giving his sanction to the prosecution of the war, without knowing the principles on which that war was carried on—whether those which were avowed at the opening of the present session were still adhered to, or whether a different system had been
364Mr. Tierney
 asked, if he was to understand, that no money which was voted for one service could be afterwards applied to another, and at a future period repaid?Mr. Tierney
 said, the right hon. gentleman would find, if he put together all the sums which had been voted for the service of the army and navy, they would amount to no less than what he had stated. Would the right hon. gentleman say, that the sums already granted had all been applied in the way appointed to be done by the House? He did not wish at present to provoke any debate. He had to repeat, that 35 millions had already been voted in supply, without taking into account the sum voted to pay Exchequer bills. The right hon. gentleman had stated one thing, at which, he confessed, he was rather surprised; that it was more painful for him to ask money, than for the Commons to grant it. He could not but confess that that was something new. When the former sums had been granted, he knew the principles which were then professed by his Majesty's government; but he did not know what views might have been since taken. He wished, therefore, that the right hon. gentleman would postpone this grant till it should be convenient to come before the House, and explain the system upon which the war was to be conducted during the rest of the year.Mr. Tierney
363362 expressed his regret that the hon. and learned gentleman should have felt any uneasiness in consequence of what had fallen from him yesterday. If the hon. and learned gentleman had been absent yesterday on private business, or on an emergency, and intended to be present at all the other stages of the measure, then he also regretted that he had made the observations which he had made in the hon. and learned gentleman's absence. But if by those observations he had awakened the slumbering attention of the hon. and learned gentleman to the subject, he was persuaded that he had done a great public service. In saying that the hon.
363362Mr. Whitbread
 said, the servants of the crown had never been considered as at liberty to take the navy money for army services, or the money voted for the army for the service of the navy. In point of fact, however, no money had last year been applied for, on account of the army extraordinaries, till a much later period than this. It would have been more becoming, perhaps, to have asked a farther grant on account of the ordinary services of the army, and to have applied part of it to the extraordinary services.Mr. Huskisson
360 then added, that the object of his Bill would be, to limit the continuance
360Sir F. Flood
 rose to give notice of a Bill of a very important nature, for which it was his intention soon to move. United as Great Britain and Ireland now were, it was desirable to assimilate the law of the two countries. He believed that such was the opinion of every member who heard him; for no one could deny that—Sir F. Flood
 brought in his Bills for taking away the corruption of blood consequent on attainder for felony and treason; and, for altering the punishment of high treason. They were read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time on Monday the 18th April.Sir S. Romilly
361 wished to be allowed to say a few words in reply to some remarks which he understood had fallen yesterday from the hon. member for Bedford, on his (sir W. Scott's) absence from the House. The fact was, that he did not think it likely that any discussion could arise in that stage of the Bill. If he had foreseen the possibility of such an occurrence, he would have spared the hon. gentleman the performance of that part of his public duty. There were other insinuations which the hon. member for Bedford had chosen to throw out with respect to him; and one was, that he had taken the Bill out of the hands of a worthy and hon. gentleman. He confessed that he thought his character and conduct in that House would have saved him from such an imputation. The fact was, that the Bill introduced by that hon. person (for whom he had the highest respect, and whom he met on terms of great intimacy) had for its sole object to relieve the clergy from prosecutions under the Act of Henry 8. That hon. person expressed a disinclination
361Sir W. Scott
366 said, though unaware of the necessity of this Bill, or that the regulations proposed by it would render the principle of the Act of the 22nd of the King more secure and operative, he was very unwilling to oppose a Bill that merely professed to compel personal discharge of official duty; convinced as he was of the necessity, and the highly beneficial consequences
366Mr. Browne
369 thought it was impossibly to look at the conduct of the administration, without seeing that there was a gross violation of the letter of the law with respect to the colonies. He should be much
369Mr. Baring
l.l.l.372l. moved the order of the day, for the House resolving into a committee on this Bill. In making this motion, he begged to state to the House, that in consequence of what he had said on a former occasion, when he moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the permanent relief of the clergy, he had received a letter from the attorney of the informer, Mr. Wright; in which he was accused of having, in the statements which he then made, prejudiced Mr. Wright's interests. The part of his speech which seemed to have given most offence was, that in which he stated, that an action had been brought against one gentleman for penalties which amounted to 15,816l.l.l.372l.Mr. Buthurst
 also expressed his surprise that the hon. gentleman should have introduced his motion without giving some reason to the House, which would justify them in adopting his proposition.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
 said, he could have no difficulty in assigning a reason for his motion. The papers, for which he had moved some time ago, contained a catalogue of the grievances under which the prisons to which he alluded laboured. From these it appeared, that the women were without clothing, and frequently without bedding; and it further appeared, that the whole of the gaols were crowded to an extent truly uncomfortable. Since that period he had himself visited those prisons, and found full scope for the humane interposition of the legislature. He found that great neglect had subsisted in the management of those receptacles of the unfortunate, and more particularly in a prison in another place, he meant that in the Borough; beyond this he did not think it necessary to state. He had no wish whatever to cast any reflection upon the magistrates of the city of London; nor did he apprehend that any reflection on them could be conveyed by his motion. Indeed, when he first introduced the subject to the consideration of the House, the gentlemen who represented the city gave their most hearty acquiescence to the investigation he sought. Why they were now disposed to secede from that acquiescence he was at a loss to imagine.Mr. Eden
 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the state of the gaol of Newgate, and the Poultry, Giltspur street, Ludgate and Borough compters; and to report their observations thereupon, together with any improvement which may be practicable therein: in doing which he observed, that after what had been said on this subject on a former occasion, he did not think it necessary now to make any remarks whatever.Mr. Eden
367 begged to inform the hon. gentleman, that he was mistaken in supposing colonial appointments to have been made in defiance of the Act. They were
367Mr. Goulburn
l.l.l.s.l.371d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.l.d.s.l. reported from the Committee of Supply, the following Resolutions, which were read, and agreed to by the House:l.l.l.s.l.371d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.l.d.s.l.Mr. Brogden
 rose to explain. He could not, he said, but consider it as a violation of justice to deprive a man, without cause, of an office granted even by commission. He held an office granted, not by patent, but for life, or during good behaviour; yet he should think it unjust to be deprived of it without cause. What a person held for life, he considered as an interest vested in him. It was in that sense he used the expressions alluded to.Mr. Stephen
 should not think he performed his duty if he did not rise to second what had been said by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Marryatt). The Bill would, he was convinced, tend to raise the character of the resident white inhabitants of the colonies. Even in this view it was important. With respect to what had been thrown out relative to the manner of granting such places, it could not apply to the noble lord now at the head of the colonial department. His principle of conduct while he held that situation, was, to withhold his patronage from all places in the colonies, except upon the condition of residence. This he could assert upon his own knowledge. He would not admit, that every appointment in the colonies, since the passing of the Act alluded to, was illegal without the condition of residence. If the law applied to the particular cases, there was no possible way of evading it; and if the hon. gentleman (Mr. Browne) knew of any places given contrary to the law, it was his duty to declare the abuse, and to endeavour to punish such as were guilty of it. The 22nd of the King related only to patent places; it had no reference to such as were granted by commission. Nor did, he think with the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Creevey), that persons holding their places by commission should be deprived of them. They were vested rights. As to personal responsibility in the colonies, it was a perishable commodity. It would be unjust thus to take such rights away. The Bill did not touch upon existing rights.Mr. Stephen
 expressed his surprise that the hon. gentleman had not assigned some reason for this motion. He was aware, that when the subject was last before the House, the gaols in question were in a very crowded state, both the debtors and felons being extremely numerous.—Since that period, however, another gaol, in which the city proposed to place all the debtors, had been building, and was now in a very forward state. His Majesty's ministers too had taken every means in their power to thin the crowd with which Newgate had been filled, by removing to another situation all those convicts who had received judgment. This being the case, and every necessary precaution having in fact been taken to remedy the evils complained of, he could have hoped that the hon. gentleman would not, by the motion which he had made, have conveyed an indirect censure on the magistracy of London.Mr. Alderman Atkins
 approved of the Bill. He thought the House and the country ought to be obliged to the hon. gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) who brought it forward.Mr. Marryatt
bonâ fide would trouble the House with a very few words, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. gentleman (Mr. Stephen.)—When persons were in possession of patent offices, their rights were certainly reserved in cases of this kind; but he must protest against the doctrine delivered by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Stephen), that those were vested rights which were never considered such. The Bill, he said, did not interfere with vested rights; but places granted by commission were not vested. This was the first time he heard vested rights extended so far. If the honourable gentleman spoke thus through mistake, he was glad that he afforded him this opportunity of correcting himself; but he must protest against the doctrine, particularly as the last clause of this Bill was involved in it. He willingly joined in the praises of the noble lord at the head of the colonies, for putting a clause of residence in the grant of colonial offices. It was said, that personal responsibility was a perishable commodity in the colonies. It would appear, that they took all means of avoiding it; for they only sent out the grafts, and kept the stock at home. But if they went out there, he could not see any means of their avoiding responsibility. If sir Evan Nepean, for example, filled his place there personally, and not by deputy, what means could he have of avoiding responsibility? The Bill ought to be watched in the committee; and if the hon. gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) bonâ fideMr. Whitbread
 said, he was glad the hon. gentleman had been so explicit, as the House had an opportunity of forming a judgment of the nature of his situation. Notwithstanding the disadvantages of his office, however, he apprehended it would be as difficult to get him out of it, as his friends had found it to get him in.Mr. Whitbread
375 expressed his surprise that the worthy aldermen should have found fault with his hon. friend for having brought forward the present motion; especially as it appeared from their own declarations, that not one of them meant to oppose it. He was still more surprised that while they seemed convinced that no blame whatever was imputable to the magistrates of London, they should appear to feel so sore at what his hon. friend had said. His hon. friend had moved for a paper which when produced rendered it still more incumbent on him, in his own mind, to take a personal view of the gaol; and in so doing he had found it more particularly his duty to put the subject into a train of inquiry. Nothing could be more candid and liberal than the mode in which his hon. friend had proceeded. He had abstained from giving any opinion on the subject, and contented himself with barely moving for a committee to make enquiry into the case, and to report their opinion to the House. The hon. baronet, who spoke last, had wished that the motion should have been postponed till the magistrates of London had matured the plan upon which it was their intention to act. He (Mr. W.) differed from the hon. baronet on that head: he, for his own part, would rather be inclined to look into things as they were, than to wait for the intentions of any set of men whatever. Where evil existed, they could not too soon be removed; he thought, therefore, his hon. friend had acted most
375Mr. Whitbread
368l.l. did not think the present Bill a suitable remedy for the grievance complained of; which was, that persons residing here held situations in the colonies of great emolument and trust, while they had others to do all the duty for them. The principle upon which the House ought to go was, to save to the public the money thrown away upon duties thus discharged. The precedent that he would take for any act of this kind was the 22nd of his present Majesty. He would put one case which occurred since the passing of this Act. He would ask, whether the place granted to sir Evan Nepean was a patent place, or one granted by commission? It was a place which brought in 2,500368l.l.Mr. Creevey
374 said, that he for one acquiesced in the motion, but he could have
374Sir J. Shaw
 was far from wishing to shrink from the enquiry proposed; convinced, as he was, that the conduct of the magistracy of the city of London, and of the persons connected with the gaols alluded to, would, on investigation, prove highly creditable to themselves. The gaols, it was true, had been crowded in a manner extremely inconvenient to the unhappy persons who were confined; but every means had been taken to lessen that hardship; and the moment the sheriffs heard that the females were without clothing and bedding, they entered into a contract for the procuration of every thing that was necessary.—(Mr. Whitbread here cried, "Aye!")—The hon. gentleman might say aye! but the fact was so; and he defied any person to say that neglect or inattention was imputable to any of the persons under whom the prisoners in question had been placed.Sir William Curtis
 wished the consideration of the Colonial Bill to be put off till Thursday, when these returns might be made.Mr. Grant
382381l.380379378 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the more effectually preventing charge and expence in the elections of members to serve in parliament. The hon. member, in a tone of voice scarcely audible in the gallery, proceeded to explain the nature of the measure he was about to introduce. His object was, to restrict, or rather to prevent, the payment of their expences to what were called out voters, not resident in the borough when the election took place. He thought that some apology was in the first instance necessary for having ventured to undertake a subject of such great importance to all classes of the community—It not unfrequently happened, that while the older and more experienced members of parliament were fully em-
382381l.380379378Mr. Douglas
 adhered to the maxim, that we should not take advantage of our being in the wrong. Those who had incurred the penalty could not certainly bring that as a reason why they, should be excused paying the costs: neither, if brought, ought it to be admitted.Mr. C. W. Wynne
 thought an examination at the bar of the House the most proper course.Mr. C. W. Wynne
 stated, that the same words occured in the Election Act of the 12th of the King, relating to excuses from members on account of sickness. The House had always, however, received evidence at their bar. The petition might be suffered to lie on the table; and the House, on a subsequent day could come to a determination on the course to be adopted with respect to it.The Speaker
 stated, that this was a Petition from certain individuals in the county of Mayo, praying to be allowed to lay before the House facts verified on oath, to shew cause why their time should be enlarged for entering into the recognizances demanded from them. The Act said, that such indulgence could not be granted unless it should appear to that House, by facts stated and verified upon oath, "That the applicants were entitled to it." This was exactly what the present petitioners wished to do. They offered to state facts to the House, verified by affidavits. As far as he could recollect, the House was not in the habit of receiving affidavits, taken out of doors, unless some member should be at hand to give a proper explanation, or the parties should be called to the bar to be examined.The Speaker
 reprobated the manner in which many petitions were presented, with the whole undigested mass of letters and affidavits on which they were founded, instead of an abstract of the whole.The Speaker
 was aware, that there were many cases full as hard as those which he had already mentioned, or as the present. He described that of a clergyman who had a house in the country; and on applying to take a licence to go there, received a letter, stating that it was not necessary. Yet Mr. Wright had returned him among the non-residents.Mr. Bathurst
 thought that, although not exactly consistent with practice, it would be hard not to take the oath of the petitioners, but to examine them at the bar of the House. If that course were adopted, it could not be known where it would stop.Mr. Bathurst
 said, the House would be departing from the course adopted in cases relating to the expences of their own members. If the evidence on oath were of that kind that on the face of it no suspicion could arise, then he should say that to receive affidavits would be complying with the sense of the act of parliament. He thought there were many and grave reasons for the House not departing from their usual practice.Mr. Bankes
 wished to correct an error into which the hon. gentleman had fallen, through want of sufficient intimacy with West India affairs. He seemed to imagine, that a saving to the state would arise from the confiscations he proposed; whereas, in fact, no money saved by the suppression of offices could be transferred into the consolidated fund, unless the hon. gentleman should succeed in persuading the assemblies which governed the several islands to vote that money exactly in the manner he wished. He certainly did not pretend to know what their sentiments would be on that subject; but he was well aware, that those assemblies had always been found very unwilling to admit any external interference, in their domestic concerns.Mr. Goulburn
 was ready, for one, to introduce some clause into the Bill now pending, by which the prosecuted parties should be empowered to bring their case before a jury, and to produce the evidence required. If they were found guilty of pardonable neglect only, then they might be relieved from the payment both of the penalty and of the costs.Mr. Preston
 explained. His great object was to abolish those offices; as they were places of patronage in the hands of the crown, and instruments of corruption.Mr. Creevey
377376 rose to move for copies of all letters patent, commissions, or other instruments, in virtue of which appointments had been made in his Majesty's West India colonies, and at Malta and Surinam. In doing this he did not expect to meet with any opposition. He should shortly put the House in possession of his object: which arose out of a Bill already under consideration, and coincided precisely with the 22d of the King, enacted in 1782, and which ordered, that all holders of patent places in the West Indies, granted after the passing of that Act, should become resident. The operation of this law was not made retrospective, as it would have borne with undue severity on the possessors of preexisting places. There were now in his Majesty's colonies, comprehending those acquired by war, 100 offices. Out of these, 90 had been granted since the passing of the Act which required personal residence; and yet it was a fact, that not one of the 90 holders of these places resided in the colony in which his appointment lay! he said nothing of the 10 who held their offices before the passing of the Act, as theirs was a case reserved; neither did he wish to deprive them of their places, as they had now enjoyed them for so many years, without any complaint from the inhabitants of the colonies; but when their interest in those offices should expire, he wished the state to take the profits arising from them, and to transfer them into the consolidated fund. But he wished to interfere with the places granted since 1782. If patent places, then their holders should reside in the West Indies; and if not patent, then they were removeable at his
377376Mr. Creevey
 thought this would only add to the difficulty. In that case, the law expences of the trial would fall on the individual; and he very much doubted, whether they might not prove heavier than the costs, which he would originally, though perhaps unjustly, have had to pay.Mr. Manners Sutton
 supported the Bill.Mr. Rose
 said, if the parish of Hackney did not make out a good a case as those parishes which had obtained similar Acts, he should certainly oppose it.Mr. Byng
 replied, that Friday the 22d of April had been chosen; as it was supposed that by that day the sitting of the various quarter sessions would be concluded.Mr. Ponsonby
 replied, that more than three weeks notice would be allowed; and he knew that from particular circumstances it would not be convenient to his noble friend to fix a later day for his motion. The Monday succeeding would be the furthest possible postponement.Mr. Ponsonby
 denied that adjournments had at any time been made solely for the convenience of the Irish members. He saw no adequate reason for postponing the subject beyond the 22d of April.Mr. Ponsonby
 begged to be allowed to second the motion, since it met with his entire concurrence.Mr. Ponsonby
. I beg to take the liberty of saying, that not only is there no disposition to take the distinguished individual, whose speech is to be the subject of discussion, by surprise; but that no question can easily come before this House which would take the hon. member in question by surprise.Mr. Ponsonby
389 observed, that the whole of this dispute arose from the novel and unconstitutional doctrine which had of late years been introduced, that it was necessary to give a notice before a motion was made. There was no parliamentary rule for any such proceedings; it was an innovation destructive of the privileges of members, and ought to be abolished. The original reason for giving a notice was, to collect a sufficient attendance on the day the subject was to be discussed; but it was entirely at the option of the individual, whether he would not give it. If it was contended that the House had a right to expect it, he distinctly and
389Mr. C. Wynne
. The House should recollect that the character of an individual occupying the most distinguished place in this House, is involved in the motion proposed to be made on a future day. No doubt, the noble lord and his friends have, before this time, made their determination upon the form of the motion they will adopt. This, I apprehend, is the first time that any member has been allowed to bring forward a personal charge. [The word 'allowed' was echoed from many parts of the House, and considerable confusion was created by the employment of it by Mr. Vansittart.]The Chancellor of the Exchequer
. Mr. Speaker, I rise to order. Surely this House will not endure to be told, that a member is not to be 'allowed' to, make any motion at any time he thinks proper. (Hear, hear, hear!)—It is the right, the undoubted right of every member, and I call the right hon. gentleman to order.Mr. C. Wynne
. If it be the right of any member, the House will take care that no motion is brought forward and decided without due deliberation. It is true, that the House has the remedy in its own hands, by adjourning the subject; but it may not be prudent to compel the House to exert its right in this respect.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
391 without deciding what the right hon. gentleman meant by the
391Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that he, for one, was really very ignorant of the nature of the motion of the noble lord. It might be for a supposed breach of privilege, or misconduct in the exercise of a privilege; or one or both of them. It was of considerable importance, in his view, that the House should be informed more particularly upon the subject.Mr. Courtenay
. What I said has been so misrepresented, that it becomes necessary for me to give some explanation. I meant to take a distinction between a notice and a charge: notices are, I admit, undoubtedly in all cases mere matters of courtesy; but I apprehend that a personal charge was never discussed on the very day. I allow that any member has a right to lay an impeachment upon the table without any notice; but the House has never, I apprehend, proceeded to investigate the accusation immediately and without deliberation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 maintained, that it was by no means unusual to state to the House the nature of a motion which was to be made on a day a fortnight or more subsequent. He begged to ask whether a single instance could be produced where a question of privilege had been hung up like the present? He required to be informed also, whether there ever was a case before, where, after a delay so long, the individual who was to introduce the subject had not made up his mind upon the precise nature of the motion he would submit to the House? It was not yet known what sort of complaint was to be made against the speech of the right hon. gentleman. The noble lord had not yet determined what his motion should be: was he not resolved upon the general bearing and effect of it? The House ought not to be satisfied with a guess at the terms of a motion on so important a subject.Mr. Bathurst
 felt himself called upon to state, that he knew it to be the intention of his noble friend (lord Morpeth) to communicate to the Speaker, personally, the nature of the motion he intended to submit, a sufficient time before the 22d April, to enable him to meet it in any way that he might deem expedient. But was it ever heard until this night, that the House was previously to be put in possession of the terms of the motion? A notice had been given, that Mr. Speaker's speech, on a certain occasion, would be taken into consideration on a certain day, and the Speaker be informed in due time of the nature of the motion: this was all that in candour or courtesy could be required, and all that had ever been done.Mr. Tierney
388 answered, that no member of the House, in question of a personal nature like the present, ought to be taken by surprise. He also begged to take the liberty of saying, that the situation of things, in which the high individual in question was now placed, had never occurred, and would never have been per-
388Mr. Bankes
 thought that the House ought not to be left in the dark as to the shape in which this important question would be brought before it; nor ought the distinguished individual who was the subject of it to be taken by surprise.Mr. Bankes
 observed, that when he spoke before, he did not know that a Bill had been framed according to a report before the House.Mr. Wrottesley
 said, this Bill contained a clause, the principle of which had often before been reprobated. He certainly thought some reason ought to be given, why such a was necessary in the parish Hackney. He did not, however, mean at present to oppose the second reading.Mr. Wrottesley
390. When the right hon. gentleman talks of 'allowing' members to bring forward motions, he seems to forget that it is the undisputed right of any member even to bring forward an impeachment, and to lay it upon the table, without notice, (Hear, hear!)—If any thing could deter my noble friend from doing that which courtesy only requires, it would be the unemployment of such a term as 'allowed'. Were I placed in the situation of the noble lord, it would operate strongly upon my mind not to do even the courtesy of communicating my motion, lest it should in future be constru-
390Mr. Whitbread
 said, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Vansittart) did not mean to say, that a member should not be allowed to make a motion, but that the House would never permit such a subject to be discussed without due deliberation. It was not a question, whether member should be allowed to exert his privileges. He knew the noble lord (Morpeth) too well, to think he would do anything inconsistent with the most honourable conduct.Mr. Wallace
387, seeming a right hon. gentleman in his place, begged to be informed what
387Mr. Cartwright
 was of opinion, that many members could not be returned and in their places by that early day, He apprehended too, that any notice for a call of the House for the 22d of April would be shorter than custom required.Mr. Cartwright
 moved that the House should be called over on the 22d of April.Mr. Cartwright
 remarked, that adjournments had recently been made for the convenience of the attendance of the Irish members; and he hoped that this slight accommodation to the general wish of country members would not be resisted.Mr. Cartwright
l.l. wished the learned gentleman (sir S. Romilly) to give his attendance in the committee, when the clause objected to should be introduced. The delay required might be of great detriment to the parish of Hackney. In answer to what had been urged respecting the necessity for the clause, for the clause, he could say that 1,880l.l.Mr. Mellish
 was ready to agree, that unless the House should be convinced of the necessity for the existence of the clause in question in the Bill, it ought not to be supported. But he could not see why the parish of Hackney, which was in a similar situation with the 16 or 17 adjoining parishes, all of which had obtained Acts containing clauses of the nature of that now objected to, should be put on a different footing from its neighbours.Mr. Mellish
, though desirous not to oppose a measure of this nature, could not approve of the clause in question.Sir Egerton Brydges
386 wished the hon. member to inform the House, what there was peculiar in the parish of Hackney, that the inhabitants should not be subject to the same laws which prevailed throughout the other parishes of the kingdom. The hon. gentleman had said that similar enactments had been obtained in the 16 or 17 adjacent parishes. This might be the case, but how did it affect the parish of Hackney? He was not desirous of dividing the House; but he thought it was incumbent on those, who brought forward a Bill so injurious to the lower orders of people, to show what was peculiar in this
386Sir Samuel Romilly
 contended, that the whole object of the other side of the House had been answered by putting the members in possession of the speech from authority, by printing it. No further object could be attained by publishing the precise terms of the motion intended to be made.Sir John Newport
 moved the second reading of the Gold Coin Bill. He observed, that having stated the nature and object of the measure on a former occasion, he should not trouble the House with many explanations; but he could not help observing, that its object was, to prevent the gold coin of the realm from being sold at a price beyond its nominal value. Hitherto every breach of the law on this subject had been pursued under the Bill, and occasioned by the Bill itself; but in future, although it were not possible to prevent offences, they might be diminished; as the intent of the Bill was not so much the punishment of crime, as the deterring from its commission by the fear of the penalty.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not expect that what he could say would have any influence; but he could not help repeating, that all the experience as to the operation of the Bill fully justified the theoretical views which had before its enactment been exhibited on the subject. It appeared from the prosecutions in pursuance of the Act, that the offences had been committed by persons entrapped by the informers: it had not, therefore, been effective to the prevention of crime, but had created an offence for the sake of punishing it.Lord Folkestone
 could see no contradiction in telling the public that they might give an exact fixed value for a thing; but that they must not give more or less.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as gentlemen would probably wish to have further information before they debated this subject, he would at present merely give an outline of his intention. It was the opinion of those who directed his Majesty's councils, that it would be improper to extend to the East India shipping all the benefits and privileges with which British ships were invested: it was, therefore, his intention to permit ships built in the East Indies to be registered for China and for Great Britain, but not for general foreign trade. In other respects, it was thought proper that these ships should be subject to the same restriction as other ships not British.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he held in his hand a Petition from Mr. Wright, the informer; but he had some doubts how far it could be received, on account of the allegations of the petition being in print, in a pamphlet attached to it.Mr. Wynne
 thought the request of the two preceding speakers highly reasonable; and he conceived that the best method of effecting the object in view would be, to appoint a select committee as soon as possible; where any information that any gentleman could give would be readily received.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 suggested, that the committee could have nothing to do till some papers were produced.General Gascoigne
 said, that there was already a large mass of papers, and the committee might with great propriety discuss what further papers would be necessary for their decision.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed with the doctrine of the chair; but as the petition had been put into his hand just as he was coming into the House, he thought it better to state the circumstance, and leave it to their discretion. He then moved that the Petition might be presented alone.Mr. W. Wynne
397 then presented another petition from William Wright, of Bridge Court, Westminster, in the county of Middlesex, gentleman; setting forth,397Mr. W. Wynne
 said, if the right hon. gentleman had stated any specific instances, the House would know how to set about the enquiry; but so far from this, he had not even stated whether the cause of complaint lay in England or Ireland. As to the judges, it was known that they were perfectly independent; and although they were the receivers of the fees, they were not personally interested in the receipt of them. It was impossible to surmise any thing wrong on their parts; for they had not only to administer justice with impartiality, but also to look to popularity. On the whole, as he could see no good reason for the motion, he should move, as an amendment, that the House proceed to the other orders of the day; at the same time, he certainly should not object to any rational motion on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, his right hon. friend had by his motion imputed no improper conduct to the judges. The House had certainly a right to enquire if the fees had been raised, though it should afterwards appear that they had been raised by proper authority. He had no doubt that the increase of fees was proper, to keep pace with the increasing expence of living. But the high opinion he entertained of the judges, was not to lead to a blind confidence in his capacity of member of parliament. In the reign of Geo. 2, a similar enquiry had been made, and the judges of that day were inferior to none that had ever presided in the courts of England. Should the present motion be opposed, grounds of suspicion would arise.Mr. C. Wynne
 suggested, that all objection could be removed by shaping the motion so as to require a return from those courts where the fees had been augmented during the last 20 years.Mr. Rose
 said, he thought such suspicions as those mentioned by the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, might certainly be entertained. For his own part, he should never have thought of any such suspicions, had it not been for this day's debate, and the manner in which the motion had been resisted in its outset by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was glad, however, that the suggestion of the right hon. gentleman had put the matter in such a light, as should answer every purpose of his right hon. friend who brought forward the motion.Mr. Baring
403"nil" observed, that the present were extraordinary times, as hardly a day passed which did not introduce some perfectly novel proceeding in that House. They were now told, they ought not to enquire into the amount of sums raised from the people of this country; it would be to insult the judges, by seeming to attach suspicion to them. Formerly they were told, it was the first duty of that House to enquire what sums were raised in any way from the people. They had an undoubted right to enquire into any increased expence thrown on the public. If it should be proved that an increase had taken place in the fees paid in the several courts, that increase might appear to be justifiable and necessary; but of this the House could not judge till they had called for information on the subject, and an answer had been given. But a learned gentleman had said, it would consume so much of the judges' valuable time to make the returns called for, that, on that account, the proposition ought not to be entertained. How much of their time would it consume if no increase in the fees had taken place? How long would it take them to return 403"nil"Mr. Ponsonby
 contended, that the objections made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if applicable at all, applied with equal force to the motion as amended at the suggestion of Mr. Rose, viz. that there was something in it that implied suspicion as to the conduct of the judges, and that the House could not adopt it unless a specific charge were introduced. The Chancellor of the Exchequer therefore could not, with any regard to consistency, agree to the amendment: all that the amendment did was, to require a return from the courts in which the fees had been augmented; and the augmentation was the ground of suspicion; it seemed as if the right hon. gent. (Mr. Rose) had charitably interposed to save his friend from opprobrium. Thus, then, a double novelty was to be observed; first, that such a motion should be resisted at all; and, secondly, that ministers had changed their opinions without any substantial change in the motion to authorize it. The right hon. bart was perfectly correct when he said that these augmentations were considered as a grievance in Ireland; they formed, in some cases, so great an obstacle, that in some instances persons had refrained from seeking justice, not being able to sustain the increased expence. Supposing this, however, not to be the fact, one salutary object would be answered by removing all suspicion.Mr. Plunkett
405ex post facto said, that in the early part of the evening it had been stated, that there was not likely to be any opposition to the principle of the Bill; that it would only be objected to in the detail; and that therefore there would be no debate on the second reading, as the entire examination of the measure would be reserved for the committee; he, however, had at that time different intentions; and he had been anxious to catch the eye of the Speaker, in order to give notice of that difference. So much did he object to the general principle of the Bill, that he felt himself obliged to oppose the second reading, even in that thin state of the House. All the general arguments which applied to precipitate Bills applied to that before the House; such Bills were usually rather the effects of feeling than of reason. His chief particular objection to the Bill arose from the injury it would do to an individual. The Act passed about twelve years ago, regulating the residence of the clergy, held out inducements to persons to commence actions for any breach of the provisions of that Act; and under the sanction of King, Lords, and Commons, the prosecutor had a vested interest in the penalties attached to its violations. The Bill went to destroy that vested interest, It would be an 405ex post factoLord Folkestone
406ex post facto said, that not only the present Bill, but every Bill of Indemnity, was an 406ex post factoMr. Wetherall
 said, he should give his vote for the second reading of the Bill, though he could not help feeling the weight of those objections which were urged by his noble friend behind him, and which he thought were not sufficiently answered by the learned gentleman opposite. It could not be denied, that the informant had, by the Act of the 43d, a vested right in the writs he had taken out under that Act; and that the provisions of this Bill, if passed into a law, would deprive him of that right. The justification of such a measure could only be found in the peculiar circumstances, and the necessity of the case. It was a choice of difficulties in which the House was involved; but it was quite clear that the clergy ought not and must not be left without adequate relief, where no moral culpability whatever could attach. Mr. W. said, he thought the statement he had made was due to the character of the clergy in general, and concluded with saying, he should give his assent to the second reading of the Bill.Mr. Western
 said, that the Petition referred perpetually to the documents annexed, and was in itself incomplete and unintelligible. It would be better for Mr. Wright to take it back, and put it into a more concise form.The Speaker
, in explanation, said, that certainly the objection would not be to the papers being printed; but he had never heard of a petition's being received with the allegations attached to it. If such a circumstance was in the recollection of any member, he might state it. Such a circumstance was not in his own recollection. The way was, to present a petition, containing a particular allegation, and begging that the House would hear evidence upon it. The House had then the option either of going into the case, or of dismissing it at once.The Speaker
pro forma said, he should reserve whatever observations he had farther to make on this Bill, and merely move that it be committed pro formaMr. Bathurst
"Fiat justitia, ruat cœlum." defended the Bill. That breaches of the law had been committed, was not denied; but he maintained that the quality of the offence was not that against which the legislature had most to provide. A Bill indemnifying a person from penalties incurred by the omission of a matter of form (Mr. Grant, jun), had just passed without opposition. From the language held by the noble lord, it should seem he would allow of nothing of this sort. He would not admit that a breach of the law could in any way be qualified by circumstances; his language would be
"Fiat justitia, ruat cœlum."Mr. Bathurst
"nil" agreed with the last speaker, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Rose) deserved thanks; but contended, these ought to come from the right hon. baronet (sir J. Newport), and not from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. When the right hon. gentleman spoke of the little trouble the judges would have in returning "nil"Mr. Bathurst
401 contended, that the hon. gentleman had not given reasons to be-
401Mr. Bathurst
 agreed with the hon. alderman, that on a subject of such importance as the shipping-interest of the country, no measures should be taken till the fullest information was obtained.Mr. Protheroe
402prima facie, said, he did not rise to oppose the motion, as now worded; but he could not suffer it to pass without making his protest against the manner in which it was originally brought forward; from which it could not but be presumed, 402prima facie,Mr. Stephen
 explained.Mr. Stephen
395 observed, that the shipping interest was of great magnitude, and deserved the most serious consideration of the House. For this reason, he thought that all the information which could be procured should be laid before the House. He should, move, therefore, for the number of ships built by the merchants during the last three years: there
395Mr. Alderman Atkins
 said a few words in favour of the amendment.Mr. Simeon
407 would, as he supposed the noble lord would press the question to a division, give his reasons why he felt obliged to vote against the second reading of the Bill. It was not from any affection to informers; for he knew no class of persons whom he more inveterately hated and despised, than those who obtained money by practising informations; nor because he was not aware that the church was suffering great injuries in consequence of the Bill regulating residence; but he would not consent to relieve the clergy by the present Bill, because it would trench on the provisions of an act of parliament, and illegally destroy a vested interest; and he was astonished to find the Bill re-
407Mr. Creevey
399l.;l.l.398 rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make the freehold estates of persons dying indebted, liable for the payment of simple contract debts. He believed there would be no opposition to the leave for bringing in the Bill; but as the subject was new to the present parliament, he would state shortly the substance of his measure. By our law, the non-payment of debt was visited with great severity. Unlimited imprisonment was the punishment which the law inflicted on persons unable to pay their debts, whether the individuals were in fault or not. Some relaxation had lately been introduced by a most beneficial Act; but still, under certain circumstances, a person might be imprisoned for life; and thus a man in a state of bankruptcy, was punished as severely as if he had committed a capital offence. But while the law was thus severe against the persons of debtors unable to discharge their debts, what seemed very inconsistent, the property of a debtor might, without any difficulty, be subtracted from his creditors. A man might owe debts to any amount, and leave a considerable property behind him at his death to his heir, with his debts unpaid; and the law would suffer the heir to enjoy the property and to revel in all the luxuries of life; while those very persons whose credulity, perhaps, contributed to the acquisition of that property, might be sent to prison for want of power to recover their debts, and see their wives and children doomed to a workhouse.—It was this anomaly in the law which he now proposed to remedy. Till the Statute of Frauds parsed in the time of king William, even special debts could not be made good against devises; and it was to be regretted, that the alterations introduced at that time were not carried somewhat farther. It sometimes happened, that men who had contracted debts, and who had purchased freehold estates, from an unjustifiable kindness to their relations, and for the very purpose of preventing a commission of bankruptcy being taken out against them, had put an end to their existence—These
399l.;l.l.398Sir S. Romilly
400 rose with an intention of moving, that a table of the fees received in the civil and ecclesiastical courts of Great Britain and Ireland, the augmentations of them which had taken place during the last 20 years, and the authority under which they had been imposed, should be laid before the House. By this mean, the House would come to the knowledge of the alterations in the fees which had been demanded in courts of justice. If the rate of fees was not controllable in parliament, he knew not how the matter could be reached any where else. Parliament would have the means of judging if any increase had taken place; and if so, on what ground the alteration had been made. That such augmentation had taken place in many instances, he was not disposed to assert; but he knew that it had in some. He should suppose that it was the wish of the House, that the doors of courts of justice should be thrown open as widely as possible, that no class of subjects might find any difficulty in obtaining redress; but if, besides the augmentation of expence from the stamp duties on proceedings, there could be additions made to the fees of the judges and offices of court at pleasure, the poorer classes of the community might
400Sir John Newport
 had not the slightest objection to that alteration, since his whole object would thereby be answered.Sir John Newport
 said, that as this was one of the days on which notices had precedence of orders, and there was another motion to be made, the right hon. gentleman was debarred from moving the other orders of the day. It was a prevalent opinion, that the fees had been augmented both in England and Ireland; and he had much difficulty in obtaining information on the subject, from the fears of the practitioners, lest by making any disclosures they should incur the displeasure of their respective courts. This was a case that called for information; and justice would be denied to the public, if it were not fairly brought under their view.Sir J. Newport
l.l.;394 said, he was certain that a Bill of this nature could not exist without producing serious effects on the country. Much had been said of the good effects that would result from it in its former shape; not any of which had
l.l.;394Sir John Newport
404 said, his reason for bringing forward the motion in such general terms was, to take away every idea of attaching the smallest suspicion to the conduct of the judges. The way, however, in which the
404Sir J. Newport
:—I am authorised by his royal highness the Prince Regent, to inform the House, that the negociations lately opened at Chatillon have terminated in a rupture, and that a further communication on that subject will speedily be made to parliament. I am happy to be able to state, that the mode and spirit in which these discussions have been conducted and carried on to the point of their termination, have met with the entire concurrence and approbation of all our Allies; and that they are about to submit a Declaration to Europe, and to the world, in which they will explain the principles by which they have been guided, and justify themselves of all blame in the failure of this pacific attempt. As soon as this Declaration is issued, and shall reach this country, it is his Royal Highness's intention, that it be laid, together with all papers and documents relative to the late conferences, before this House.—I cannot, with propriety, say any thing more upon the subject at present, and shall therefore move the order of the day.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to ask, in the first place, whether all the papers which were necessary to enable the House to form a correct judgment on the negociation would be laid before them? and, secondly, at what time the communication would be made?Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that no communication would be made of any thing, the disclosure of which would be detrimental to the country; but that every disposition existed on the part of his Majesty's government to afford the fullest information to the House. It was impossible to ascertain exactly at what time the Declaration would arrive in this country; but, if possible, it would be laid before parliament, with the other papers, shortly after the recess. Full time would then be given to the House for the consideration of the papers; as there was no disposition on the part of his Majesty's government to press prematurely for a determination on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared himself perfectly satisfied with the explanation.Mr. Ponsonby
413 said, inconsequence of what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Vansittart), who had just made a communication to the House by the authority of his royal highness the Prince Regent, he begged leave to ask, what duration it was his intention to give to the next adjournment? When they last had some conversation on this point, the right hon. gentleman said, that the adjournment would be of the usual length, which would carry them to that day fortnight; for he believed, the ordinary practice was, to adjourn on the Thursday before Good Friday, to the Monday week following. The right hon. gentleman had told the House, that they would not have any information immediately from their own government on the subject of the negociation, but that they must wait till the Allies had published their Declaration on the continent—which, when received in this country, would be laid before parliament, accompanied by such papers as would enable the House to form a correct judgment on the circumstances. He recollected the right hon. gentleman (when the conversation took place to which he had alluded,) observed, that the adjournment would not be of greater length than usual, but that it might probably be shorter. Now, it was material for the House to know, whether the right hon. gentleman intended to propose an adjournment of the ordinary length, or to shorten it. Because if they were to depend on the Declaration of the Allies being sent to this government, before any communication could be made to the House, it must be evident to every man,
413Mr. Ponsonby
 said, it was intended to adjourn the House, on Thursday next, till Monday fortnight.—With respect to the Declaration of the Allies, it was clear that they must be most desirous to lay their conduct before the world as speedily as possible. Therefore, little doubt could exist, but that they would publish their Declaration immediately after the rupture of the negociation. He hoped, however, that, about the time when the intended adjournment would terminate, his noble friend (lord Castlereagh), who was best able to explain the circumstances connected with the subject, would have arrived in this kingdom. If, however, the allies should change their intention of publishing a Declaration, it would, of course, be the duty of government to give to the House such information, with respect to their conduct and principles, as might be deemed necessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
414 said, in all former cases of that kind, it was not customary for this country to wait for information, and to stay proceedings in parliament, depending on a Declaration to be published by their Allies. He admitted, that a Declaration of their Allies generally preceded the notice, in parliament, of subjects of this nature; but the present proceeding was entirely different—because the right hon. gentleman expressly stated, that they were not to receive any information until the Declaration of the Allies was received in this country. But if they vacillated in the course they proposed to pursue, or if they changed their intentions altogether on the subject of a Declaration, then government would state something on the
414Mr. Ponsonby
 said, the right hon. gentleman had misunderstood him. He did not mean to state, that the information to be laid before parliament was entirely to depend on the Declaration of the Allies; but that, as the Allies intended to publish such a document, it would be better to wait for it, that it might be submitted to the House, in conjunction with the other papers relating to the same subject. Besides, the whole of the Allies would join in the Declaration to which he had alluded; it might, therefore, be considered as affording an explanation of the conduct of this government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that, according to this explanation, he certainly must have mistaken the right hon. gentleman. He understood him to have stated to the House, by authority of the Prince Regent, that it was the intention of the Allies to publish a joint Declaration; and that, when it was received in this country, it should be laid on the table of the House, with such other papers as were necessary to elucidate the subject. If, however, he had not understood him correctly, he had nothing more to offer on the subject.Mr. Ponsonby
415 said, that the motion which he was about to make appeared to him to be of such a nature, as would not call forth any opposition from the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Vansittart). Government were now about to cause a new Customhouse to be erected in the city of London; and when so large a portion of the public money as it must necessarily demand was about to be expended, it should, in some shape or other, come under the cognizance of parliament. He did not by any means suppose, that the plan was a bad or an improperly, expensive one; but a building of this description was of such importance, that an estimate
415Mr. Baring
 said, he had no objection to the production of the paper.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he could add nothing to what he had already stated on this subject. He had publicly declared, that the Tower halfpence were a legal tender, and that fact was still farther made known by proclamation. He was not aware, that any of the officers of government had refused to take them; if they had done so, their conduct was improper. Persons possessing halfpence of this description, would receive their full nominal value at the Mint.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, Mr. Wright had only desired liberty to contradict statements contained in one petition, that of Mr. Priest. If, by application to the House, or by any other means that appeared more likely to attain his end, he thought he could disprove the statements of his opponents, he might, of course, do so.Mr. Bathurst
 expressed a wish that the further consideration of the report of the above Bill, which stood for to-morrow, should be postponed for a day or two.Mr. Bathurst
 did not see the necessity for so great a delay.Mr. Bathurst
 moved, "That there be laid before the House a copy of the Memorial of certain manufacturers, dated the 4th of March last, and addressed to the lords of the Treasury, on the subject of the present state of our Copper Currency."Mr. Grenfell
 said, it was not generally known, but ought to be perfectly understood throughout the country, that the full nominal value was given, at the Mint, in Bank notes, for Tower halfpence.Mr. Grenfell
 then gave notice, that, probably soon after the recess, but certainly before the period arrived when the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Vansittart) should make his arrangements for a new loan for the service of the country, he would call the attention of the House to the 26th of the King, which gave authority to the commissioners for the management of the sinking fund, to apply the whole or any part of that fund in furtherance of any loan or loans.Mr. Grenfell
411 did not mean to throw any imputation on the course pursued by the right hon. gentleman. All he intended to say was, that a fresh proclamation might be of use. Instances, he believed,
411Mr. Whitbread
 stated, that, in consequence of the refusal to take Tower halfpence in payment, which was so general throughout the country, he had heard that great distress was felt in the manufacturing districts. The shopkeepers would not take these halfpence; and, in one town, he was informed, persons who collected the poor rates had also refused them, by which very great inconvenience was produced. He was aware, that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Vansittart) had done every thing in his power to check the evil, and a proclamation had been issued on the subject. He (Mr. Whitbread) was, how-ever, of opinion, that much good would result if a fresh proclamation were published.Mr. Whitbread
 believed that a petition had been presented from Mr. Wright, praying to be heard by counsel, at the bar of the House, against the Bill; and every reasonable time should, therefore, be allowed him.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that if the assertion contained in the petition of Mr. Wright were true, that he could do away a great number of the allegations made against him by his opponents, sufficient time ought to be given to him for that purpose. Though the business might have been taken up with strong feelings of prejudice against Mr. Wright, yet he did not think there was any member of parliament but wished the real state of the case to be fairly investigated, and that everything which Mr. Wright had to state should be fairly heard.Mr. Whitbread
 said, that he, as well as others, was prepared to enter into a discussion of the merits of the Bill to-morrow; and, if it were put off for a short time, perhaps be should not be able to attend. He thought it should be postponed till after the holidays, if it were postponed at all.Mr. Whitbread
417, pursuant to notice, proceeded to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal and render more effectual the provisions of the Act of the 14th of the King. He prefaced his motion by a short detail of the grievances which existed about the commencement of his Majesty's reign, and which had been discovered by a committee appointed to enquire into the state of Private Mad-houses in the United Kingdom. He mentioned some of the most aggravated cases of persons being confined in these receptacles who were in a state of perfect mental sanity. Amongst others, a person was found who had his wife confined in one of these houses, and who, when asked whether she was mad, replied "O, no; but I consider the place as a kind of Bridewell." In fact, it had been found that the practice was, to admit persons without any enquiry whether or not they were deranged. It was astonishing that ten years actually elapsed after the report of the committee which he had mentioned, before any remedy was applied to that flagrant evil. At length, in 1774, an Act had been passed, which, however, was now found to be very inadequate to prevent the evil. As a proof of this, he had a statement in his hand, concerning the situation of persons confined in some of these houses. In one instance, the apartments allotted for persons confined were found to be cells on the ground floor, nine feet long and five broad, the walls of which, as well as the ground, were wet with damp The whole furniture consisted of a box containing some straw or blankets by way of a bed. The Act required the certificate of a surgeon, amongst others, before a person could be received into a private madhouse. There were actually cases in which it was found that the surgeon's certificate
417Mr. Rose
418 took that opportunity to express his hope, that the discussions on the subject of the corn laws would not be put off, as in the last session, until the middle of summer, when members were called upon to vote on a question which it was not possible to have time to digest. Considering the imperfect nature of the information hitherto obtained, and that
418Mr. Baring
 said, that he had no difficulty in stating, in as far as he knew, what was likely to be done on the subject. An hon. friend of his, the member for Queen's county (sir H. Parnell), had been chairman of the committee; and it was at the desire of that hon. baronet, that all the accounts relating to the business had been moved for. When the matter had been discussed before the Christmas recess, it had appeared to every one, that it would be unfair and unwise to enter into the discussion in the absence of many of those members whom the subject most concerned. He knew that it was the intention of the hon. baronet to bring the matter under due discussion as soon as possible after the recess.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 said, what he thought necessary was, that there should be either a fresh committee, or that evidence should be taken at the bar on the subject.Mr. Baring
 said, that in the absence of the hon. baronet, he felt it impossible to say what course would be taken.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 said, that from the present state of public business, he believed it would not be inconvenient if the House adjourned for the Easter vacation to-morrow instead of Thursday. If any gentleman had any private business which stood for Thursday, he begged him to state it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
424 said, most unquestionably he did not mean to go beyond the terms of his notice, in the measure he should introduce. He had stated, explicitly, the part of the Act that he wished to have repealed, and he had not since altered his determination. With respect to the second point of the hon. gentleman's interrogatory,—"Whether he intended to
424Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 said, that as they were then almost on the eve of the holidays, and as there was no business of importance before the House, he did not think there was any necessity for prefacing the motion of adjournment, of which he had given notice on the preceding evening, and which was perfectly in unison with the ordinary proceedings of the House, with any observations. He then moved—"That this House do, on its rising, adjourn to Monday se'nnight."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was certainly not conscious of any want of respect for the House, in proposing an adjournment which was usual, and in which the convenience of members was consulted. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Whitbread) had himself assigned a powerful reason, if such were necessary, for the adjournment in question; or even for a longer adjournment, if the interests of the public required it. It had always been, customary at this season of the year to propose such an adjournment as that which he had suggested, unless public business of a paramount nature required the House to meet at an earlier period; and as there was no such inducement for departing from an almost uniform practice, he did not think it was necessary to enter into any particular explanation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
"That a committee be appointed to inquire into the regulations which govern the drawbacks and countervailing duties on the importation and exportation of spirits the manufacture of Great Britain or Ireland, from one country to the other respectively; and also what alterations it may be expedient to make in respect of the same, in order to place the intercourse between England and Ireland, and Scotland and Ireland respectively, in the article of spirits, upon those terms of reciprocity which are required under the articles of union between Great Britain and. Ireland; and that they do report their observations and opinion thereupon, from time to time, to the House."429 rose, in pursuance of notice; to move for the renewal of the committee which sat in 1800, to enquire into the intercourse of spirits between Great Britain and Ireland. Since that committee had been appointed, repeated Acts had been passed to prevent the intercourse between the two countries; and as it now became desirable that the subject should
"That a committee be appointed to inquire into the regulations which govern the drawbacks and countervailing duties on the importation and exportation of spirits the manufacture of Great Britain or Ireland, from one country to the other respectively; and also what alterations it may be expedient to make in respect of the same, in order to place the intercourse between England and Ireland, and Scotland and Ireland respectively, in the article of spirits, upon those terms of reciprocity which are required under the articles of union between Great Britain and. Ireland; and that they do report their observations and opinion thereupon, from time to time, to the House."429The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that there was no wish on the part of his Majesty's government, that the committee should direct their attention to any other point than that in which the two countries were particularly interested.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 had no wish that the committee should go further than the hon. baronet thought necessary; and had formed his motion merely with a view of letting it be understood that the committee was similar to that appointed on a former occasion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was extremely glad the hon. baronet had given him an opportunity of explaining to the House the cause of this omission. The fact was, that returns had been received from the clerk of the peace in Ireland of the nature alluded to; but they were in such an imperfect state, that they were utterly unfit to be laid on the table of the House. Many of the counties had neglected to send in any returns whatever; while others were of so incorrect a nature, that they were wholly unsatisfactory. He had however, since written to the Judges and to the foremen of the grand juries of different counties; and was in hopes that by the next session such returns would be made as would meet the wishes of the House.Mr. R. Peel
425 said, it was very true, that his constituents (the freemen of Coventry) were obliged by act of parliament to serve a regular apprenticeship, before
425Mr. P. Moore
 presented a petition from the manufacturers of Coventry, praying that that part of the 5th of Elizabeth, cap 4, which inflicted penalties on persons exercising trades to which they had not served regular apprenticeships, should be rendered efficient. He should merely move "that the petition do lie on the table;" but, before he sat down, he wished to inquire of the learned gentleman (Mr. Serjeant Onslow) who had given notice of his intention to introduce a Bill on the subject, whether he meant, in his proposed measure, to confine himself merely to the repeal of that part of the 5th of Elizabeth which sanctioned those penalties, or to do away with the Act altogether? He also wished to know, whether the learned gentleman intended to push his Bill through the different stages in the present session; or, having introduced it, to let it he over till the next? In his opinion, a committee ought to be appointed, in the first instance, to examine the whole of the petitions that had been presented relative to the 5th of Elizabeth, and also to look into the provisions of that Act.Mr. P. Moore
428 felt it his duty to take notice of the manner in which the right hon. gentleman had proposed his motion. The present, it was true, was a very unusual session; the recesses had already been very long, and they had been proposed at most extraordinary periods. But these were circumstances that could not justify the right hon. gentleman in thinking, that the proposed adjournment was a mere matter of course. It seemed to him, that the right hon. gentleman acted somewhat disrespectfully to the House, in not informing them why they were then called on to adjourn to a period not, in his opinion,
428Mr. Whitbread
 had said distinctly; that he did not mean to oppose the adjournment, and had only objected to the manner in which it had been proposed by his Majesty's ministers.Mr. Whitbread
 was extremely desirous that the committee now proposed to be appointed should examine the question for their consideration fairly, and with a determination to come to some certain regulation upon this important subject; as nothing was so improper as the temporary acts which had been passed, and which were in direct violation of the first principles of the Act of Union. It was extremely impolitic always to be looking solely to the present moment, without paying any regard to futurity. With respect to the motion of the right hon. gentleman, it was not his intention to oppose it; but he did apprehend that the object in view would be attained with more certainty, if the instructions to the committee were not of a nature so general as those contained in the motion. The inconveniencies of such instructions had been fully proved by the result of the deliberations of the last committee, which had never been able to come to any fixed conclusion, in consequence of the variety of matters by which the attention of its members had been distracted. He thought it would be best to confine the attention of the committee solely to the question at issue between the two countries; and with that view, he begged to suggest to the right hon. gentleman the expediency of so wording his motion.Sir John Newport
 expressed himself satisfied with this explanation.Sir J. Newport
 wished to be informed, whether there was any reason for omitting to lay before the House, according to the terms of the act of parliament which was passed in a former session, an account of the population of Ireland?Sir John Newport
 said, that as long as the instructions to the committee were so general, it would be in the power of any member to bring forward the discussion of any collateral branch connected with the spirit intercourse of the two countries.Sir John Newport
, with reference to a Bill then in progress in the House (the Colonial Residence Bill) wished to put a question to the hon. gentleman opposite him (Mr. Goulburn). He understood that there had been an appointment of a Mr. Le Marchant to be civil secretary of Antigua; an office of great importance in the government of this island—he wished to know whether the appointment to it was by commission or patent?Mr. Brown
, after the late momentous events which had unexpectedly taken place, thought proper to call the attention of the House to the documents relating to the late negociations. Before the recess, he had been directed to acquaint the House, that the negociations which had been carried on at Chatillonsur-Seine were broken off, and that a communication would be shortly made to them on that important subject. At the same time it was understood, that all the documents relating to those negociations were to be laid before the House as early as possible, in order to submit fully to the approbation of the House the conduct of his Majesty's ministers in that delicate conjuncture. The change of circumstances which had, however, taken place since, rendered the production of those documents now less desirable. The man who was the principal party that we had to deal with in those negociations had been hurled from his throne—and on that event, which now filled the world with wonder, he would not detain the attention of the House; but since that momentous change had taken place, other negociations had been entered upon, which promised the happiest and most glorious results for England, and for Europe. Under these circumstances, he did not think it advisable, not perhaps decorous, to publish the documents relating to the negociations at Chatillon.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
434 had not meant, by any thing that he had said, to preclude the House from calling for the papers, if their production should be thought necessary at any future time. He wished at present to give opinion, as to whether or not ministers might hereafter think it desirable that they should be produced. Whether or not it would be expedient of a future day, he was not now
434The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had not expressed an opinion that it would be inexpedient at some future time to lay the papers before the House. He repeated, it was his meaning, that it was not now deemed expedient by his Majesty's ministers to lay before, the House those papers which a short time ago they thought it their duty to produce.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
447 observed, that some members opposed a clause in the Bill as tending to sanction that which was already illegal. A Bill had passed through the House some time ago, which contained
447The Hon. W. Bathurst
ab uno disce omnes, opposed it. He said, that, in his opinion, the right to grant leave of absence should be vested in the councils and governors abroad, and not in the government at home. In two of the cases of absence which had been mentioned, the parties who ostensibly granted it deserved to be impeached, though he believed the fault did not really attach to them; for if the House could take a peep behind the curtain, he believed it would be found that the governors had been obliged, by the interference of the authority of the government in England, to grant leave of absence. Persons, he knew, had been pointed out by government, as fit to receive leave of absence; and if this were done in one case (ab uno disce omnes,Mr. A. Browne
 also considered the time proposed by the hon. gentleman as too confined. In illustration of his statement, he observed, that the voyage to New South Wales, on an average, occupied ten months.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that a letter had been written to Jamaica on the subject of the order; and that no indisposition existed on the part of the government to afford the information wished for.Mr. Goulburn
438437 stated, that when he had first the honour of submitting the present measure to the House, he had in no degree anticipated the opposition which it appeared that he was now to encounter; for, whatever apprehensions he might have entertained of being considered as an intruder on the province of reform, which the hon. gentlemen opposite arrogated exclusively to themselves, they were removed by the general expression of approbation and concurrence with which it was received on its first introduction. He was still less prepared to hear the present Bill stigmatised as one brought in expressly for the purpose of perpetuating existing abuse, and sanctioning the illegal violations of a former statute. As the hon. gentleman thought it necessary to give the history of that Bill (the 22nd of the King), it did not appear to Mr. Goulburn improper to inform the House and the hon. gentleman, that it was brought into the House of Lords, and passed through that House, precisely in the shape in which the present Bill was submitted to parliament. During its progress through this House, it was limited in its operation to patent places: probably in consequence of the suspicions of those who thought, with the hon. gentleman, that the government had no right to meddle with reform; and who therefore proposed an alteration which had the effect of rendering an useful Bill altogether nugatory. That the ground on which the former Bill was introduced was that stated by the hon. gentleman, namely, that of reforming places which were from their tenure out of the reach of the prerogative of the crown, was altogether incorrect; for, as the Bill had only a prospective operation; it was as much in the power of the crown to have introduced a clause of residence into future patents, as to compel the residence of persons holding offices during pleasure. The hon. gentleman had interpreted the former Bill as depriving the
438437Mr. Goulburn
 said, that the office of secretary for all the Leeward Islands had formerly been held by one person; but on the death of Mr. Osborne it had been deemed advisable to separate the office; and Mr. Le Marchant, brother to general Le Marchant who was killed at the battle of Salamanca, had been appointed by patent to be secretary at Antigua, with the express condition that he should reside at that place.Mr. Goulburn
441"Serpents, and hydras, and chimeras dire.""All monstrous, all prodigious things440 said, that at the time this Bill was first brought in, it seemed to be the opinion on the other side of the House, that it was highly honourable to the persons who introduced it, and to the colonial department. The gentleman on that side were then unusually fair and candid—it
441"Serpents, and hydras, and chimeras dire.""All monstrous, all prodigious things440Mr. Stephen
443 regretted that his hon. and learned friend (sir S. Romilly) was not
443Mr. Stephen
448 objected to the shortness of the period stated by the hon. gentleman. He thought, where an individual had served the public faithfully, for 20 years, in the colonies, and wished to come home, either to settle his affairs, or to educate his children, he ought not to be
448Mr. Barham
 regretted, that many of the places in the colonies were often given to persons, not for their abilities to discharge the duties of them; if, however, they were made less profitable, they would not be accepted by men of talents. The grounds upon which the Bill proceeded were stated to the House; and one of the grounds was, to increase the white population; for it was well known that it was decreasing; and that, to prevent it, there were local regulations; the object of which was, to render the number of whites upon each estate in some degree proportionate to the negroes. The Bill, he was certain, would contribute to the security and happiness of the colonies. It would have been better if the hon. gentleman (Mr. Creevey) had moved for a return of all the appointments in the colonies, and not confined himself to a few in Jamaica and in the conquered colonies, which probably would be all very soon given up. Most of the places appeared to be given to persons who had served the government in other situations. Only six had been given within the last ten years; and they were given with the implied condition, that those who obtained them were not to reside. It was not against law to dispose of them in this manner. The present Bill he considered highly honourable to the noble lord at the head of the colonial department; and it had his concurrence, as he looked upon it as a measure of much utility.Mr. Marryatt
 said, that the Bill, when it was introduced, professed to remove an existing evil; which, in his opinion, it would not do. The Bill, as the learned gentleman (Mr. Stephen) observed, was certainly received with some cheering from that side of the House; but the cheering was applied to the principle upon which the Bill was said to proceed; and because it was stated by the person who brought it in, that the noble lord at the head of the colonial department would, by this measure, deprive himself of much self-indulgence, by giving up his power of granting leave of absence. This, however, was not the case; as the Bill applied only to governors and other officers abroad. There ought to be a return of all leaves of absence for the last 32 years, laid upon the table, that the House might have some proof of the necessity of such a Bill. They should likewise know the jurisdiction under which the governors acted in granting leave of absence. There was one instance, of a governor at present residing in this country, who removed a judge from his place; he also removed the sheriff, and the attorney general, and persons holding patent places. As he saw no grounds for this measure, he mast vote against it.Mr. P. Moore
446445imbella tela.444 said, that in the first instance he should take the liberty of paying his personal respects to the learned gentleman (Mr. Stephen) who had so particularly alluded to him, and whom he therefore wished to have immediately followed. The learned gentleman had thought proper to attribute to him (Mr. Whitbread) a capacity for repartee, but he must decline the compliment; and as to sarcasms, he had no talent for them; but even if he had, they could not affect
446445imbella tela.444Mr. Whitbread
 seconded the amendment.Mr. Whitbread
 remarked, the right hon. gentleman had said that he did not mean to preclude the House from calling for any information which they might hereafter think necessary. He knew that the right hon. gentleman did not mean to preclude them from doing that over which he had no controul; but he now collected from what he had said, that—the instructions given by the right hon. gentleman's colleagues—that the opinion of his Majesty's government was—that it would not, even at a future period, be expedient to lay before parliament the papers, which they had promised to produce: now, if this was their resolution, when the time came, and a time must arrive, when the production of these papers would be harmless, he would get them if he could; and as their production had already been sanctioned by ministers, if he stood alone, he would endeavour to persuade the House to call for them. From the commencement of the negociations up to the present time, he had been one of the first to repose confidence in ministers. He did not repent the line he had taken; but they must not expect his confidence would be extended beyond all bounds; and he should think ministers unworthy of all confidence, if they kept from the House those papers which they ought to have.Mr. Whitbread
433 said, when the House last separated, they were in daily expectation of hearing of great events, and greater had never occurred in the history of any nation than those which had since taken place. No man could contemplate these with greater delight—no man could participate more largely in the general joy, than he did; but he could not help feeling, nevertheless, that the House would be guilty of a dereliction of its duty, if it neglected to call for the papers respecting the negociations at Chatillon. They (the members of the House of Commons) were not absolved from their duty by the prosperity which had opened on Europe and the world. They ought at such a time to be more vigilant than ever. It was their duty carefully to trace what had been the conduct of ministers before the rupture of the negociations. When he said this, it was not because he thought there was any reason to arraign the conduct of ministers; on the contrary, he
433Mr. Whitbread
 thought an attention to this subject was particularly called for at the present time, from the near prospect we now had of peace; when a number of most meritorious persons, in consequence of the diminution of our naval and military establishments, would be reduced to a scanty half-pay. It was not surely at such a time as this that those places, which might be conferred as an honourable reward on the services of our gallant countrymen, should be disposed of to increase ministerial patronage. The hon. member concluded with moving, as an amendment, instead of the words "that the Speaker do leave the chair," the following Resolution:—"That it appears to this House, that by the 22d of the King, no persons holding colonial appointments are permitted to reside in this country; that nevertheless many persons holding such appointments by patent, do reside in this country, contrary to the express letter of the Act; and many others, not holding them by patent, contrary to its evident meaning and spirit; that this is an abuse and violation of the law, calling loudly for inquiry and correction."Mr. Creevey
436435 rose to oppose any further progress of this Bill, which had been miscalled a Bill of Reform. It would, in effect, sanctify all abuses committed
436435Mr. Creevey
 asked whether the papers which had been ordered, on his motion, relative to the leave of absence of sir Evan Nepean from his office in the Island of Jamaica, had been returned?Mr. Creevey
442l. explained. He thought before, that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Stephen) misapplied the term vested rights; and by the illustration now given, he was the more convicted of this. He (Mr. Creevey) admitted there might be vested interests in places not held by patent. He admitted, that the right hon. gentleman's place was of that nature. He was asked, if he never heard of vested interests? To this he would reply, that he often did not hear of such; but if a person were to go into the office of the master in Chancery, and show a piece of paper, by which he held a place of 2,000442l.Mr. Creevey
 said, he should certainty vote for the Bill, were it not on the ground that it would be cruel and unjust to disturb the possessions of those persons to whom the places had been granted, and in which they ought to be protected.Sir Frederick Flood
439 said, it was true that there were abuses of non-residence against which it was proper to guard; and was of opinion, that to frame some new regulations, with respect to the granting of leave of absence, would be wise. He did not agree with his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Stephen) in the line he had taken as to the "vested right" which he supposed colonial officers to have in the situations to which they were appointed during pleasure; but at the same time, he thought long established usages ought not at once to be overthrown, to the run of individuals. It appeared to him, that colonial offices might have been conferred on persons, who had formed their plans of
439Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, that on his part at least there was no personal hostility; and in the opinion he should deliver, he would be influenced by no consideration of that nature. He understood his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Stephen) to say that offices held at pleasure were vested interests. He did not know whether he used the words in a legal sense, or merely to imply that it would be unjust to deprive persons of such places. In law, every thing was vested that was not contingent; but when his hon. and learned friend spoke thus of places held at pleasure, surely he did not mean to say that it would be illegal to take them away. Vested interests, indeed, could not be taken away without a violation of law. The learned gentleman, perhaps, meant only by vested, existing rights; and to say that such could not be taken away without injustice, was a dangerous doctrine. The office held by the learned gentleman himself was a freehold one and vested, and could not be taken away.Sir S. Romilly
 repeated, that he knew not the exact amount of the outstanding debts; but that by the monies applied by the Act, and some arising from the duchy of Cornwall, he understood they would be paid in three or four years. The fund, he allowed, was determinable on a contingency not pleasant to contemplate.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
461 said, that it would be improper for him to say any thing on this delicate subject, as he had no commands to make any communication
461The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. said, he had understood that 13,000l.l.Mr. Bennet
l. said, he felt no difficulty in answering the question of the hon. gentleman, though on a subject somewhat delicate; but which had been brought before the House at a former time, on the occasion of the passing of a Bill for regulating the Prince Reagent's household. In that Bill, which had passed into a law, it was provided that a certain annual sum should be set aside for the removal of certain incumbrances under which his Royal Highness laboured. There were, however, some of these of so urgent a nature, that it had been deemed advisable to pay the sum of 39,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the subject of Norway was at present one of great delicacy; but that his Majesty's government was disposed to assist their allies, according to their treaties.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.462 felt considerable pleasure, on the whole from the communication of
l.l.462Mr. Tierney
 said, that as reports had been spread respecting the intended marriage of her royal highness the Princess Charlotte of Wales, he wished to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he had any communication to make to the House on this most important subject?Mr. Halsey
460459458457 rose to present two petitions to the House; one from the Roman Catholics of the country of Tipperary, and another from those of the populous and opulent town of Clonmel; both of which equally insisted on the right of the petitioners to a complete emancipation from their civil disabilities. He should make the usual motion, that the Petitions be received and laid on the table. When he had presented Petitions similar to the present, which he had done for the last eight years, he had always professed his readiness, if by any accident the patriotic and eloquent member for Dublin was prevented from bringing before the House the question of emancipation on the general Petitions, to move it himself on the Petitions which he then presented. The whole face of affairs throughout the would had so much changed since the last session, that he no longer thought it proper to adopt that line of conduct; and he thought that it would be improper that the Catholic Question Should be discussed during the present session. Though his opinion was changed as to the conduct to be pursued by the course of events, it remained the same as to the question itself, and he remained a warm friend to full and free emancipation. By the very extraordinary changes which had taken place during the last year, his holiness the Pope had fortunately been relieved from thraldrom, to the delight of every civilized man; and not only was he restored to liberty, but to his ancient possessions, to his former splendour, and his imperial chair at Rome, surrounded by his reverend cardinals—[a laugh]—with whom he might consult on the steps to be adopted with respect to the Catholics of Ireland. Thus had the time occurred for strengthening and consolidating the empire; and if his Majesty's ministers had these objects in view, they should
460459458457General Mathew
 observed, that it was extraordinary, that the important step which had been determined on, should first have been communicated by a foreign prince to his subjects, before it had been noticed to the House of Commons. In this, as on other occasions, they had been treated with great disrespect. Taking it for granted that the sovereign prince of the Netherlands had not told an untruth, he hoped that when the communication was made (which of course must be made, with a view to the necessary pecuniary arrangements), it would be accompanied with a recommendation to adopt such legislative provisions as might secure her Royal Highness from being taken out of the kingdom and detained from it, in a manner which might be extremely detrimental to the interests of the kingdom, and which might occur without such enactment.Mr. Whitbread
. So, the starvation system has been adopted. (No reply followed.)Mr. Whitbread
 wished to ask another question; to which he hoped, for the sake of humanity, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be able to give a satisfactory answer. It was perfectly well known, that the Norwegians, who had been conveyed by a treaty to the crown of Sweden, were indisposed to the Swedish government—nay, determined not to submit to it. It had been said, that the British government had given such orders as would put a stop to the importation of those provisions into Norway, without which the Norwegians could not subsist; hoping thus to effect by starvation what could not be done by force. He wished to know whether this report was true?Mr. Whitbread
495 said, it would have been more pleasant to his feelings, could he have reconciled it to his public duty, to have remained silent; but when he witnessed such a question, when he saw a rule about to be laid down for, the guidance of future Speakers, he felt it to be his duty to give his opinion. An attempt had been made by the last speaker to justify the whole of the Speech which gave rise to the proceeding in debate; and that hon. gentleman had slipped in a word as of the greatest importance—"at the close of a session." He should be glad to be informed how the Speaker could know that it would be the close of the session. A speech might be addressed to the throne at any time when the House of Commons should be called to attend it; and therefore it might have happened, that the observations which were made might, have occurred at any other period of the session. It had undoubtedly been the custom from time immemorial to address the crown on presenting any Bills of subsidy, but never on any other Bills. It was true that on some occasions Speakers had entered into a wide field of observation, and launched into a description of foreign and domestic policy; but no opinion had ever been given as to those Acts which had passed the House, far less on those which had remained incomplete. It was, well known, that one House of parliament had never been made the seat of record for the other; and no information of their proceedings was therefore to be given, unless it were such as should be indispensably and absolutely necessary to be given, in demanding the
495Mr. C. W. Wynn
497496 said, neither the manner nor matter of the original proposition was unfitting
497496Mr. Rose
475474473472471470469468467466 said:—In rising to submit to the House a proposition relative to part of the Speech made by the Speaker at the close of the last session of parliament, the House may be assured that I am not insensible to the imputation of presumption that in the opinion of some persons may attach upon my conduct, or blind to the various difficulties with which the subject is surrounded; among the foremost is the one, that he who has the honor of addressing you is himself an object of accusation. He has been arraigned for not bringing the subject before the consideration of the House at an earlier period of the session—but in then comparatively thin state of the House he did not think it consistent with his sense of the importance of the subject to submit it at that period to the consideration of parliament. Some rumour indeed has reached his ears, that a sort of permission was necessary before he might be allowed to make the present motion; but how it was to be obtained, or by whom extended, did not very satisfactorily appear, considering indeed the respectable quarter from which it is supposed to have proceeded, he must have been incorrectly informed.475474473472471470469468467466Lord Morpeth
 and Mr. Rose severally explained.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said, he should have no hesitation in giving his negative to the motion of the noble lord, because he conceived that it was one which was by no means called for by what had taken place. The right hon. gentleman then took a brief view of what had been said by the noble mover, and observed, that no man was more disposed, to enforce the privileges of parliament than himself. But he saw no breach of privilege committed in the subject now brought before the House; and as to the precedents which had been quoted, they appeared to go far in justification; particularly that of Mr. Speaker Onslow, which went into long dissertations upon alliances and subsidies, and these shewed to what a length of discussion that gentleman thought himself entitled to go. Yet was Mr. Speaker Onslow censured? Never. The right hon. gentleman thought the speech of the Speaker in Ireland a very fair precedent and observed, that he had received the thanks of the House for it. As to Mr. Hatsell's book, which had been, treated lightly, he was disposed to pay very great deference to it. It was almost needless to say, that he thought it his duty to vote against the motion and the amendment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
510509508507506505504503 spoke to the following effect: — Sir; After the long and able arguments which we have heard on this subject, and more particularly after the ample, justice which has been done to it in the eloquent and admirable speech of the hon. gentleman below me (Mr. Grant), it may appear unnecessary or presumptuous further to occupy the attention of the House. Feeling, however, as I do upon this important occasion, I own I cannot reconcile myself to remaining wholly silent on it. I completely concur with you, Sir, that the present question is one wholly unconnected with the question of Catholic emancipation. We are not new to consider what it may or may not be right to do with respect to this latter—we are not to ascertain the present opinion of the House upon it. The question is, whether, the House having come to a resolution with respect to the Catholics, you Sir, were authorized to convey to the throne an intimation of that proceeding, accompanied
510509508507506505504503Mr. Plunkett
514513dramatis persona512511 said, as one of the minority of 247 who were friendly to the measure of concession to the Catholics, as one who had taken an anxious part, to the best of his abilities, in promoting it, and as one who hoped, at no distant time, to take a part by the side of his right hon. friend (Mr. Plunkett) in an endeavour to promote that measure, which he conceived
514513dramatis persona512511Mr. Canning
522 said, that after the very able and powerful support which had been given to the proposition that he had the honour of submitting to the House, it would not be necessary for him to say one word in reply. His right hon. friend (Mr. Canning) in his zeal to rescue the right hon. gentleman (the Speaker) from a possible, had fixed a real imputation upon him. The word 'elsewhere,' which is to be found in his motion, had been supposed to imply, that the right hon. gentleman as a sycophant and courtier might gain access to the throne. The truth is, that the expression 'elsewhere' had been taken from a precedent, which did not perhaps apply to the present case, and therefore might be wholly omitted; but if such were his opinion of the right hon. gentleman, he should have avowed his opinion without reserve; and this he conceived to
522Lord Morpeth
The Right Honourable 485484483not consent482481480479478in hœc verba.477476 addressed the House to the following effect:485484483not consent482481480479478in hœc verba.477476the Speaker
521 defended the Speaker. He did not feel that any of the observations, applied to the Speaker's conduct, had any weight. It was said by a right hon. gentleman, that a Speaker may be eloquent, but he must not be an historian. In what respect had he been giving any history that was not well, known to the people of England? A great question had been discussed; and it was known that part of the members of that House took one side, and part the other. That it was said, that the way in which, it had been mentioned at the bar of the House of Lords, was disgraceful to part of the Commons, and that it cast obloquy on the supporters of the Catholic claims. Every man in the country knew that question had been negatived; and what the Speaker said did not divulge any secret, neither could it prevent the question from being again brought forward. It had been urged, that the proceeding, if allowed, would prevent the right of petitioning. Mr. Bathurst, however, could, not see that it would be the least impediment to that right. The authorities quoted did not apply. The speech was no more a censure on the Catholics, than a Bill framed to correct abuses would be a censure on the persons committing those abuses. It was merely stating, that the body of the House of Commons feeling what they conceived due to Protestants, had not consented to this measure. Then it was said, the Speaker made his speech as a private member, and not under the direction of the House. The statement that he made had appeared on the Journals of the House.
521Mr. Bathurst
498 rose, but spoke in so low a tone of voice, that it was not possible to hear him, except at intervals. He began by stating, that he differed from the view of the present question as taken by the noble lord, and considered the Speaker to have acted in conformity not only with precedent, but the usages of parliament. The beaten track of precedent he would not pursue; but, in his humble opinion, the strongest precedent that had been quoted, was that of Mr. Speaker Onslow in 1745; for if ever there was an occasion in which the sentiments of the House must be matter of conjecture, that certainly was one. With regard to what the Speaker himself had delivered at the bar of the House of Lords last session, it would surely be allowed; that the claims of the Catholics had been rejected from an adherence to those laws which made the crown, the government and the parliament, fundamentally Protestant; and therefore the sentence was historically correct. The question was one of great solemnity, for it involved the dignity of the House itself. If the vote of censure proposed
498Mr. F. Douglas
520519518517sub silentio?516515 would not enter at any length upon the question now before the House, after the admirable and able support which the motion had received from his two learned friends; though he could not prevail on himself to give a silent vote upon an occasion like the present; particularly after the extraordinary speech of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. Many things had surprised him in the course of his life; but nothing had ever more surprised him than that all the eloquence of the most eloquent of the 247 members whose motives had been misrepresented in the speech addressed to the throne at the close of the last session,
520519518517sub silentio?516515Mr. Tierney
, in explanation, denied having used the word "audit."Mr. Bankes
"That it has been customary for the Speaker of this House, on presenting the Bills of Supply at the close of a session (the King being present on the throne), to make a speech at the bar of the House of Lords, recapitulating the principal objects which have employed the attention of the Commons during their sitting, without receiving any instructions from the House as to the particular topics, or in what manner he should express himself; and that nothing has occurred which calls for any interference on the part of this House for the regulation of the conduct of the Speaker, either at the bar of the House of Lords or elsewhere."494493 lamented, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had not scrupled to charge the Speaker, in distinct language, with a gross violation of his duty and of the privileges of that House in consequence of a line of proceeding which appeared to him (Mr. Bankes) perfectly consistent with the established usages of parliament The ground laid for this charge was, that the proceedings on the Catholic question, to which the Speaker in his address to the throne had alluded, had not produced any positive result. But he conceived, that all those questions on which the House had employed much of their time and attention, whether relating to matters of a foreign or domestic nature—to business begun or concluded, were proper topics for the Speaker to enlarge upon at the termination of the session. This was the opinion of Mr. Hatsell, than whom a higher authority could not be referred to; and in looking over the different facts and cases with that attention he was able to bestow upon them, he had found him strictly borne out in this conclusion. It had indeed been stated, that there was no distinct instance of a rejected proposition having been introduced as a subject of comment in any such address to the But more than this had been proved. Instances of still greater latitude had been brought forward, in which a reference had been made to measures not even begun upon, but merely in future contemplation. An objection on which much stress had been laid was, that Speaker was not bound to appear in a committee;—but he was not excluded, from being present; and if so was he, as soon as it was over, and he resumed the chair, to shut up his understanding to all that had passed, and to become suddenly blind and deaf. Was there any precedent
"That it has been customary for the Speaker of this House, on presenting the Bills of Supply at the close of a session (the King being present on the throne), to make a speech at the bar of the House of Lords, recapitulating the principal objects which have employed the attention of the Commons during their sitting, without receiving any instructions from the House as to the particular topics, or in what manner he should express himself; and that nothing has occurred which calls for any interference on the part of this House for the regulation of the conduct of the Speaker, either at the bar of the House of Lords or elsewhere."494493Mr. Bankes
502501500 expressed his regret, that, having seldom the honour to address the House, it should now be his painful task to do so, by stating to the Speaker, that, in his opinion, he had failed in a very essential part of his duty. If he was surprised at the speech delivered at the bar of the House of Lords on the prorogation of parliament last session, he freely confessed
502501500Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had observed, that not one person had supported the amendment of the member for Bedford; but he assured the House, that he entirely approved and meant to vote for it.General Mathew
, in explanation, said he had not intentionally thrown any imputation. He had moved the amendment for the purpose of recording his opinion on the Journals; but it was not his intention to press the House to a division on it.Mr. Whitbread
488487486 said, he felt himself called upon, not only to make some observations on the Address which Mr. Speaker had deliveted at the Bar of the House of Lords, but on certain expressions which were contained in the speech which the House had just heard. He (Mr. Whitbread) remained of the same opinion now, after he had heard the speech of the right hon. gentleman (imbued, as it was, with all the learning he had collected on the subject), as he had formed before it was delivered. With all the respect he felt for
488487486Mr. Whitbread
492491490489 proceeded to say, that the speech of Mr. Foster having been read, for the information of the House, he called upon any gentleman who then heard him, to shew any part of it by which the conduct of the right hon. gentleman could be justified. All that Mr. Foster said, was, that the only means of preserving the blessings which the country enjoyed was to maintain the Protestant ascendancy inviolate. He did not inform the lord lieutenant, as the right hon. gentleman had informed the throne, that the state had been endangered by certain measures, which were intended to give the Roman Catholics the right to sit in parliament; but which had been defeated by the House of Commons, who thought it inexpedient to alter the Protestant constitution of the empire. There was not one point of ground, in the whole of Mr. Speaker Foster's speech, on which the right hon. gentleman's conduct could stand. There was another point, which the right hon. gentleman had treated with much levity in his speech delivered that night, but which appeared to him (Mr. Whitbread) of so much importance, that it formed part of the amendment which he intended to propose on the motion of
492491490489Mr. Whitbread
 seconded Mr. Whitbread's Amendment.Mr. Creevey
499 said, that in the consideration of the question before the House, the principal object in view was, to guard the future deliberations of the House from the exercise of an influence on the part of the crown greater than it ought to have, consistent with the constitution of the country. It seemed to be admitted on all hands, that the course pursued by the Speaker at the conclusion of the last sessions, was without precedent, either on the Journals of that or the other House of Parliament; although it had been attempted to be urged, that a precedent was to be found in the conduct of the Speaker of the Irish House of Commons. He denied that the line adopted by Mr. Foster bore out the inference which members had endeavoured to draw from it that night—for upon coupling the terms of that gentleman's speech delivered to the throne, with the events which followed in the ensuing sessions, it would be seen, that the House did not go along with him in the sentiments which he uttered, but brought in a Bill for giving the elective franchise to those very persons from whom, he congratulated the crown, that it had been with held; so that, in fact, the
499Sir John Newport
 said, that in consequence of some statements which had appeared in the public papers, he felt it his duty to enquire of the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Goulburn), whether any memorial had been received by his Majesty's government from the free people of colour in the island of Grenada, respecting the conduct of governor Ainslie, who had been governor of that island, but who had since been removed to the situation of governor of Dominica? He was also desirous of knowing whether his Majesty's government were aware that a proclamation had been issued by governor Ainslie, threatening, if the slaves who had run away from their masters did not return, that he would order the soldiery to destroy their women and children?Sir Henry Mildmay
 wished to know if these were the only steps taken by his Majesty's government upon this subject?Sir Henry Mildmay
 begged to be informed, whether governor Ainslie was removed to the island of Dominica, after or previous to the information received in this country, respecting the proclamation of which he had spoken?Sir H. Mildmay
 then moved, That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, copy of memorial of the free people of colour in the island of Grenada, respecting governor Ainslie, and all other papers relating therete.—Ordered.Sir H. Mildmay
l.l. observed, that on a former night, in answer to a question which he pot to the other side of the House, he was told, that 39,000l.l.Mr. Bennett
 answered that no part of the loan granted from the fund alluded to by the hon. gentleman to the Civil List, had been applied in the manner which he suggested; as the accounts on the table would prove.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
525 took occasion to ask, whether ministers had taken, or meant to take, any proceeding in consequence of a certain publication which had recently appeared with
525Mr. Browne
 said, that he was not prepared to answer that question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
527 said, that he was not aware that any petition which he had presented contained a charge of fraud and perjury against any set of individuals; nor would he, if he were conscious of such a charge being contained in a petition, be the instrument of presenting it to the House. The petition which he did present certainly contained a charge against the printers of the university of Glasgow, of printing learned books to an extent which was not sanctioned by law. This was all he recollected the petition went to; and he had, upon reading it, discovered nothing which he considered improper. In presenting it, however, he by no means pledged himself to the truth of its allegations, and had merely done that duty which he felt he was bound to perform. Upon receiving a copy of the petition presented that night by the noble lord, he
527Mr. Rose
528†de novo enforced his former objections to the general principle upon which this measure was grounded, involving as it did an alteration in the old established law of the country. As the principle was admitted, that we should in no case legislate 528†de novoMr. Yorke
 declared his inability to answer what he considered a string of premature questions. It was impossible for him to state when the definitive treaty of peace would be signed; and he was quite unable to state, at present, what course on that event it would be advisable to pursue with regard to the period of restraining the payment of cash by the Bank.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said a few words in defence of the principles he had before laid down.Mr. Yorke
 proposed as an amendment, "That the provisions of the Bill should not extend to high treason," which was carried without a division. The right hon. gentleman next moved, "That petty treason should also be exempted front its provisions."Mr. Yorke
 moved, "That after the words, 'and there be hanged,' the words, 'and then be beheaded,' should be inserted." He allowed, that the punishment was very shocking, and very horrible; but if it were altered, it would be less severe than it ought to be; and the effect would be proportionably weaker, as it respected the prevention of crime.Mr. Yorke
 said, when they were making laws for the infliction of punishment, they must, necessarily, use those words which the hon. gentleman so much disliked. It seemed, however, most extraordinary, when measures of this kind were under consideration, that gentlemen should feel all the pity, for those culprits whom the enactments meant to curb and controul; and none at all for the evils which the public might suffer, if they were not in existence. In the case, for instance, of a successful treason, where war, was levied within the realm, what evils would the public be subjected to? How many houses would be burned—how many murders perpetrated—how many rapes committed! These circumstances were all, it appeared, forgotten, in commiseration of the criminals.Mr. Yorke
540 did not think that his obser-
540Mr. Yorke
 said, he had proposed nothing. He only endeavoured to preserve that which constituted a part of the ancient law of treason.Mr. Yorke
 presented a Petition from the chamber of commerce, at Glasgow, against any alteration in the Corn Laws. Ordered to lie on the table.Lord Archibald Hamilton
524 took this opportunity of asking the hon. baronet to explain what was the course which he meant to pursue in his intended proposition, with regard to
524Lord A. Hamilton
 argued, that the punishment of treason operated, by the horror which was attached to it, to prevent the commission of the crime. The giving up the bodies of murderers for dissection was equally horrible, yet no complaint was made against that award of the law.Mr. Bathurst
 thought it could not be deemed premature to inquire, at this advanced period of the session, when the definitive treaty should be signed, what course it was proposed to pursue with regard to the restriction of cash payments by the Bank. According to the existing law, that restriction would cease six months after the conclusion of peace. Now he wished to know, whether it was intended to propose a further continuance of the restriction, and previously to submit the subject to the consideration of a committee?Mr. Tierney
 disclaimed the desire of pressing any thing prematurely upon the right hon. gentleman; but as the definitive treaty of peace was not likely to be signed until a late period of the session, he thought it expedient to inquire how it was meant to proceed with respect to the Bank? Whether by at once bringing forward a Bill to continue the restriction beyond the period of six months, or previously submitting the affairs of the Bank to the consideration of a select committee?Mr. Tierney
 said, that upon the appearance of the publication referred to by the hon. member, it was intimated to Mr. Le Marchant that he was not to leave town until enquiry was made upon the subject.Mr. Goulburn
 replied, that the appointment had taken place antecedent to any mention of the proclamation in this country.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that with respect to the first topic alluded to by the hon. baronet, a full enquiry had taken place; the result of which there could be no objection to produce, if required by the House.Mr. Goulburn
523 answered, that his Ma-
523Mr. Goulburn
 reported from, the Committee of the whole House, on the Bill to amend an Act of the 22d year of his present Majesty, intituled, "An Act to prevent the granting, in future, any patent office to be exercised in any colony or plantation, now or at any time hereafter belonging to the crown of Great Britain, for any longer term than during such time as the grantee thereof, or person appointed thereto, shall discharge the duty thereof in person, and behave well therein;" the amendments which they had made to the Bill; and the amendments were read, and, with an amendment to one of them, agreed to by the House.Mr. Brogden
s.l.l.543l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.542¶l. reported from the Committee of Supply the following Resolutions, which were read, and agreed to by the House:s.l.l.543l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.542¶l.Mr. Brogden
flatrée,538 supported the amendment. The argument of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Yorke), founded on the antiquity of the law, so far back as the Norman conquest, remained untouched. It had been asked, why had the writ De Comburendo Hæeretico, and the punishment 'Peine forte et dure' been done away? But the corruption of blood was very different. This, however, was the only answer the right hon. gentleman had received, respect the case of the woman convicted of murder at Oxford in 1747, which was one of those miraculous occurrences that could very seldom happen. Part of the argument of those who supported the Bill, he conceived to be just. He did net think that the midnight assassin would be prevented from committing murder, through the fear that his family would suffer. But, with respect to high treason, he thought such a result was to be expected. Would not men of
flatrée,538Mr. Lockhart
 pointed out various hardships that arose from the corruption of blood. Among these he particularly dwelt upon the circumstance, that children born before corruption of blood was taken away by pardon could not inherit from their father, while those who were born afterwards could.Mr. Preston
541 said, he never wished to protect traitors or treason; but still, he repeated, he could not hear without horror the wording of the clause just read. The right hon. gentleman had often expressed his readiness to assist in a revision of the laws; but, when he came to work his assistance was found to be of a very limited nature. It was a most extraordinary circumstance, in the present day, that there was no gentleman who wanted to obtain a correct opinion on a point of law, however complicated, and how dear soever the interests which it involved, who would not cheerfully appeal to his learned friend, whose theoretical knowledge was fortified and sustained by the greatest experience; he would not hesitate to put his estate, his character, his life, into the hands of his learned friend; and yet, when he proposed to alter that law of which he was the best judge in the kingdom, he was regarded with jealousy and suspicion—he was looked upon as a man who wished to do mischief to the country. His labours had not, however, been entirely lost. The speeches which he delivered, when he introduced his different alterations, still remained. Some of those alterations he had effected; and, if his life were spared, he would persevere in bringing forward the remainder. But still, he had comparatively laboured, in vain—for he was unceasingly opposed by those who best knew his merits!—The right hon. gentleman said, those who supported the Bill wished to lessen the punishment for high treason, by which the public interests would be endangered. And what did the right hon. gentleman himself propose? To leave the dead body to the disposal of the king!—To have the head cut off, after the criminal was hanged!—Such scenes as these were not fit to be beheld. Well did his learned friend say,
541Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that although his learned friend did not mean to take the sense of the House on the amendment, yet he could not help expressing the disgust he felt at the wording of the clause they had just heard read. It was too horrid, he thought, not to disgust every gentleman in the committee.Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the same Act which authorized the bodies of male factors to be given up for dissection, also gave a discretionary power to the judge to order them to be hung in chains. The latter custom had, however, been abandoned for years; it was found not to operate in the slightest degree to the prevention of crimes, while it placed before the public eye the most disgusting spectacles. The dissection of Bodies had not that effect.—The public were not, in that case, shocked with any horrid exhibition, beyond the death of the criminals.Mr. Whitbread
 said, the objection to decollation did not arise from any wish to lessen the punishment, but from a desire to prevent the occurrence of spectacles which tended to destroy every vestige of feeling in the breasts of those who witnessed them. As to the giving up of bodies for dissection, it was, with respect to the study of anatomy, attended with good effects.Mr. W. Smith
 said that in pursuance of his notice, he intended to move, that the House should resolve into a committee, to take the Corn Laws into consideration. If the House acceded to this motion, he should propose a series of resolutions, containing the alterations which he had in view; and if these resolutions were agreed to, he should then move for leave to bring in a Bill, founded upon them. These resolutions he had already prepared. They were essentially different from those which he proposed in the last year, in consequence of the alterations which had taken place in the prices of grain. The average importation price he should fix at a sum which would not interfere with the present price of grain or bread. In answer to the question, as to whether the proceeding in question had originated with the select committee which had sat last year, he would answer in the affirmative; but he would add, that it altogether differed from the recommendations of that committee.Sir H. Parnell
 presented a Petition from the Queen's county Ireland, praying that the Corn Laws might be amended.Sir Henry Parnell
532531***530529de heretico comburendo;peine forte & dure; said, it was with unfeigned regret that he was compelled to dissent from the reasoning of the right hon. gentleman who had last spoken. It was true, he admitted with him the antiquity of the present law; it was as ancient as any other of our laws relating to high treason; but it was not more ancient than the law enacting the infliction of the 532531***530529de heretico comburendo;peine forte & dure;Sir James Mackintosh
537 said, that it was of little consequence which of the statements was the correct one; either way the inference was decidedly against the prince-
537Sir James Mackintosh
 would not take the sense of the committee on the amendment, although he by no means approved of it. He did not think that the exposing to public view the mangled remains of a criminal could have any good effect. Men could not be accustomed to look on such horrid sights without becoming hardened and insensible.Sir S. Romilly
 was surprised that the right hon. gentleman, as he was so much attached to the ancient system, did not contend for the propriety of embowelling a man alive. When he assented to the necessity of disgusting exhibitions, why did he not propose that? The right hon. gentleman had spoken, as if he and his friends alone had any care for the general welfare of the state. (Hear, hear, from the Treasury benches.) The sentiment seemed to be cheered, as if it were a just one!—That sentiment, however, which appeared to be levelled against him, he would repel. In every attempt he had made, his object was, to prevent the commission of crime, not to accelerate it. But the right hon. gentleman had condemned himself. Upon his own principle, he had been unmindful of the public safety, since he had agreed to some of the alterations in the criminal law.Sir S. Romilly
 said, he believed his learned friend had been misinformed. The woman herself, not her son, had been convicted of murder; and, on the other points, his statement appealed to be equally incorrect. This he (sir S. Romilly) could positively assert, that not one of the circumstances mentioned by his learned friend appeared in the progress of the case—they were kept profoundly secret. Of this he could speak, as a witness of the proceedings. The estate had passed through a variety of bands since the year 1747, without any claim whatever having been advanced.Sir S. Romilly
bonâ fide536Il faut percer le cœur du pere par le sein du fils;"Has victories not less renown'd than war;""—Peace535 acknowledged, that he felt at the same time great concern and great satisfaction. He was sorry, from the speech of his hon. and learned friend, to find that he was to have him as an opponent in the present measure; but the liberal, candid, and moderate manner in which he had exhibited that opposition, though it was no more than what from the habitual suavity and amenity of his hon. and learned friend, he might have expected, could not but give him the highest satisfaction. He had hoped, however, that his hon. and learned friend would have given his reasons much more at large, why it was his wish, or why he thought it necessary, to retain this punishment. He could not but he surprised that his hon. and learned friend, or any other person, could be desirous to retain a practice which was a disgrace to our laws; while at the same time it was in reality no punishment whatever, if the criminal chose to make a will before he was found guilty. He was sorry that he could not coincide in opinion with the hon. gentleman; because, though convinced that high treason was an offence of greater enormity that murder, and ought to be more severely punished; yet, he was equally convinced that corruption of blood was unfit for any punishment. In the first place, it fell upon the innocent, and not upon the guilty; and in the next place, it depended upon the will of an individual, whether it should have any operation or not. If a person died intestate, and the heir could not make out his pedigree, but through the blood of one tainted with felony, then the law would take its course; but if the estate or property was devised, there existed no power in the law to prevent its transmission. And was that fit for a punishment? If this, however, was the law of the land, why did not his hon. friend bring in a Bill to make it general? It was not so at present. Corruption of blood was not known in any part of the county of Kent. Were murders to be indulged and tolerated there as a privilege? And that was an argument against the antiquity of the law; for the ancient law of the land was the law of the county
bonâ fide536Il faut percer le cœur du pere par le sein du fils;"Has victories not less renown'd than war;""—Peace535Sir S. Romilly
 said, that Mr. North, the person who purchased the estate in the case mentioned by his learned friend, had done so, with a perfect knowledge of the title possessed by the party with whom he made the bargain. The son of the woman, he believed, committed the murder; and the woman herself had some claim on the estate, of which Mr. North had full knowledge at the time he made the purchase. When she stated her claim, it was set up, in opposition to her, by the purchaser, that she could not prosecute it, in a court of justice, as the estate had been forfeited by the commission of the crime of murder. The crown, in consequence, interfered, and claimed the property, as an, escheat, to prevent it from being withheld from the descendants of the woman. This was an act, not of oppression, but of justice.The Solicitor General
in terrorem,534of his argument; as cardinal York did not die before 1807.533*** began by denying the assumption of the last speaker, that the proceedings of the legislature in 1799, with respect to the corruption of blood, was an innovation; and contended, that it was rather a restoration of the law as it existed previously to 1708. Admitting also that the account of the learned and eloquent member was accurate, so far as it regarded the application of the law to Scotland, it by no means followed, that the eminent authorities he had cited, who condemned the corruption of blood as extending to that country, condemned it also as applying to England; for if they did, it was very singular, that in the reign of George 2, they should have extended its term of operation. But, it had been said, this was done because the same reason when existed for it as in 1708; viz. that it should continue in force as long as the descendants of the Pretender were living; it was marvelous, however, if all this were correct, that in 1799, when the last descendant of the Pretender was dead,in terrorem,534of his argument; as cardinal York did not die before 1807.533***The Solicitor General (Mr. Serjeant Shepherd)
546 said, the object of the Bill which he meant to introduce was, to enable the governors of the Foundling Hospital in Dublin to limit the reception of children into that Hospital to a certain time of the
546Mr. Peel
 having moved the order of the day for the second reading of the above Bill,Mr. Douglas
548 said, he was of opinion that the House ought to make the expences of out-voter legal or illegal by enactment; for notwithstanding the provisions of the statutes of William and George 2, the committees of the House very often differed on the subject. The uncertainty of the law constituted the great evil. He thought, however, that it would be a matter of great difficulty to legalize the compensation to be allowed to out-voters for their loss of time; one man might gain only three shillings per day, while another might obtain twenty times that sum. The hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Lockhart) seemed to consider non-resident voters as more independent than those who were resident; such, however, was not his opinion—non-resident electors were usually collected and treated expensively previously to a general election; they, were then carried to their borough by some candidate; and when they arrived there, they generally sold their votes to the best bidder. (A laugh.) He felt obliged to the hon. gentleman for the Bill, and should vote against the amendment. With regard to what had been said of giving
548Mr. G. Rose
550 was surprised that that should be considered as an invasion of the rights of the subject, which only went to give force and vigour to the existing law. This he thought would be its effect, and therefore it had had support. He was of opinion that the voters ought not to have their expences paid. They had been compared to witness trial; but the comparison would not hold, and he was surprised that it had been made. A witness came forward for the interest of one of the parties. Constitutionally, an elector could not come forward for the interest of a candidate. If those who held the elective franchise did not think it worth their while to exercise it at their own expence, he thought they ought not to come
550Mr. C. W. Wynn
 wished to say a few words in consequence of an imputation (he could call it by no other name) which had been thrown out against him by an hon. gentleman, with some injustice. What he had staled was, that though the measure would not diminish the representative body, yet it certainly would to a degree alter their character. However anxious he was not to interfere with the real right of electors, it would not be denied that whatever right they might have to exercise their elective duties, they had no right to be paid for the expences they might incur for the purpose of this exercise. It was not his wish to palm upon the House any theory of his own which might militate against laws that had been sanctioned by the wisdom of successive generations. On the whole, so much had been said in defence of the Bill, that he did not find it necessary to trouble the House any further.Mr. Douglas
552 was heard at considerable length against, the Bill. The learned serjeant contended, that if it were determined to pass this Bill into a law, Mr. Wright conceived himself entitled to have a clause introduced into the Bill, which should fully and completely save him harmless from all costs that be might have incurred in consequence of the actions he had commenced. He was instructed to say, that Mr. Wright had been grossly calumniated and misrepresented with respect to the proceedings which had taken place on the present question. It had been said, that Mr. Wright had taken advantage of the situation he held, as secretary to several bishops in various dioceses, and at different periods of time; bat this was not so; for Mr. Wright averred, and could prove, that a great majority of the actions he had brought were in other dioceses than those in which he held such situations: that in all those situations he had held under the bishops, he had from time to time issued printed notices to the clergymen within each diocese in which he held the situation of secretary to the bishop, apprising them of the predicament in which they stood, and warning them of the penalties to which they were liable for non-residence; that, independent of the expences he must have been personally put to, in taking the steps he had done, so far as the matters in question lay within his own knowledge, he had necessarily been at very great expences also in collecting evidence from various other quarters; and as be had this under the positive sanction and encouragement of an act of parliament, he thought, if parliament now in-
552Mr. Serjeant Copley
 said, they would be required to do more than before. In granting the licence, they would be required to make the necessary enquiries, and the licence must be registered.Mr. Buthurst
, on seconding the amendment, said a few words in opposition to the principle of the Bill.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
555l.l.554 declared his readiness to adopt, on any subject, a suggestion from the hon. gentleman, for whose opinion he entertained the highest deference. He was willing to admit, that if the object of Mr. Wright had been what he stated by his counsel, and in his printed case, namely, to enforce residence from a regard to law and justice, he would in that case be entitled to more indulgence than it was intended to give him in the Bill before the committee. But it was clear from the whole view of the proceeding of Mr. Wright, in instituting those actions, that such was by no means his intention. He (Mr. B.) had frequently stated, that all those actions were brought for inadvertence; yet this assertion had never been contradicted by Mr. Wright, through his counsel, or in any other manner. It was true, that a note, in the form of a printed paper, had been circulated by Mr. Wright respecting the renewal of licences for non-residence; but those notices were sent about by him as secretary to several bishops. These circulars had been published by him for many years, but nothing was done upon them. No proceeding whatever was taken upon these circulars. It was said that he (Mr. B) had defended the clergy on the plea of ignorance of the law; but he had not. His defence was, that the actions were not brought to enforce the law, and that the offences against it were mere slips, mere offences of form, and also because, even supposing Mr. Wright to succeed in his actions, still the ground of renewing licences for non-residence would be the
555l.l.554Mr. Bathurst
 explained.Mr. Bathurst
 said, he did not recollect having used the word 'indulgence' to which the hon. gentleman had so pointedly referred. He could not have meant it, at any rate, in the way referred to. What he meant was, that informations should be stopped when carried to abuse; and that Mr. Wright deserved less consideration, on the ground that he was not an ordinary informer, but from his particular circumstances had taken advantage of the Act to make it the source of an excessive and systematic profit.Mr. Bathurst
, in the progress of reading, proposed various verbal amendments.Mr. Bathurst
 thought that object equally secured by the Bill as it stood; the clause providing that all applications should be made before the 1st of July.Mr. Bathurst
 brought up several new clauses on the second reading; which were agreed to.Mr. Bathurst
 said, the hon. gentleman's object would be equally attained by the clause as it now stood; which would also prevent the incurring of expence.Mr. Bathurst
l.l.547l. rose to oppose the measure as unnecessary, and likely to be quite inoperative to its professed object; at the same time that it would be productive of many inconveniencies. It was unnecessary, because the statutes of William and the 2nd of Geo. 2, already made sufficient legislative provision against bribery, by prescribing that the candidate should forfeit his seat; and also that the giver or receiver of any bribe, at or previous to an election, should be subject to a penalty of 500l.l.547l.Mr. Lockhart
 presented a Petition, signed by upwards of 7,000 masters and journeymen carpenters and joiners, residing in various parts of England, against a Petition laid on the table of the House, on a former occasion, by the right hon. George Rose, which prayed certain alterations in the 5th of Elizabeth, materially affecting the interests of the present petitioners. The petitioners also stated their conviction of the necessity of a seven years apprenticeship, in all trades involving art and mystery; and that such a service was essential to the improvement and prosperity of the arts and manufactures; of Great Britain. The hon. gentleman then went on to state, that the principles by which the trade of the carpenters bad been regulated were of such a nature, that it would be injurious to their interests if they were altered or subverted; which, they conceived, would be the case if the 5th of Elizabeth, were altered in the way proposed.—The Petition was ordered to lie upon the table.Mr. Lockhart
549 could not reconcile his mind to such an innovation as this, which went practically to disfranchise such a considerable body of electors. It was notorious, that a considerable number of the non-resident voters were not able to pay their own expences going to or returning from the place of election. If those expences were not, therefore, allowed them, they would be virtually deprived of the benefit of their franchises. In the borough that he represented (Sandwich) the number of voters was about 1,000, and more than half that number were non-residents. The number of non-resident voters was perpetually increasing; as it was not possible to find employment in the town for the numbers who were entitled by birth, or otherwise, to their freedom. They naturally went to other places to seek for employment; but he never could admit the principle laid down, that non-residents
549Mr. Marryatt
, after some remarks On the enormous expence that would be incurred, suggested as an amendment, that the application for the licence should be made within fourteen days after the notification; so that Mr. Wright might be able to proceed, in those cases where no licence should be obtained.Mr. R. Smith
 observed, that he had been disappointed in not having heard, in the course of the evening, the opinion of the right hon. and learned gentleman opposite (sir. W. Scott) on the measure. No man, to fee sure, had a right to call for the opinion of another on any subject; but as the right hon. and learned gentleman had taken great interest in the Bill of 1803, of which this was intended as a remedy, the sanction of his high authority would naturally be looked to with some degree of deference by the public.Mr. Whitbread
558, on the clause respecting the bishops acting on their responsibility, thought that word might as well be omitted, because the truth was, they would be
558Mr. Whitbread
—That is, Mr. Wright may examine the register, and then inform his next neighbour of it. There was no tribunal to which he could appeal. His hon friend (Mr. Brand) on going away had left with him a clause, which he would propose to the committee, providing, that the licence should be rendered void if not granted on sufficient grounds. This he thought would be a proper check on the bishops, and was proceeding to read it; when the chairman observed, that no new clause could be brought up till the regular clauses were gone brough.Mr. Whitbread
557556 acknowledged, that be bad been one of those who had presented petitions in favour of the clergymen supposed to be aggrieved; and these petitions he had presented, he confessed, Under a strong prejudice against Mr. Wright, conceiving with others that he had taken an undue advantage of his situation to come at the information. In his further enquiries however on the subject, and from a more perfect knowledge of all the circumstances, though he was of opinion that the Bill ought to pass, and that the clergy ought to be relieved from the heavy penalties now suspended over their heads, his opinion was, notwithstanding, more favourable with respect to the conduct of Mr. Wright, and the part he had taken in following up the enactments of the Bill of 1803. The right hon gentleman was certainly mistaken is deprecating any indulgence on the part of the House towards Mr. Wright, or in supposing that Mr. Wright required their indulgence. The case was quite the reverse. It was themselves who ought to ask indulgence from Mr. Wright; they, who in their Bill had so far committed themselves, and by enacting penalties had invited informers; that Bill: which had had the high sanction of the right hon. and learned gentleman (sir W. Scott) in this House, and which in the House of Lords had not only met with general support, but had been adopted by the learned bench of bishops, and sanctioned by the approbation of the noble and learned lord who presided in that House. It was they that required indulgence, who had made this Act, and fortified it by penal-
557556Mr. Whitbread
551, without meaning to impute any ambiguity to the laws relating to elections, thought it would be admitted, that the decisions of election committees had frequently been extremely
551Mr. Lushington
 spoke in defence of the clause which he wished to be introduced. The question he conceived to be, not so much respecting residence or non-residence, as that of the remission of the fines.Mr. Brand
553ex post fucto said, that from the high respect he entertained for the character, feelings, and interests, of the great body of the clergy, whom this Bill was intended to protect, as well as from its general tendency, he was extremely favourable to it. He had, however, some objection to the mode in which the remedy was intended to be applied; and should therefore offer an amendment, which he trusted would meet the views of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst) who introduced the Bill, and who, he was certain, was anxious that justice should be done to all parties. Independently of this objection to the Bill, as an 553ex post fuctoMr. Brand
bonâ fide was convinced of the utility of the Bill; and thought that, so far from infringing on franchises of particular electors, it would give a very proper security to the rights and franchises of the real bonâ fideSir John Newport
 had not heard of the mortality alluded to; but he was not prepared to give an opinion upon the subject.Sir John Newport
, referring to many of the clergy of Norfolk who would very undeservedly be subjected to the greatest grievances, supported the Bill, and wished to see it passed into a law.Mr. Gooch
 said, that he should this session bring forward a measure that would more effectually meet the object in view.Sir W. Scott
 had great satisfaction in informing the House, that he had been instructed by his royal highness the Prince Regent, to communicate to it, that a Convention for the Suspension of Hostilities, by sea and land, between this country and France, had been agreed to by the French government and that of his Britannic Majesty; and that his Royal Highness would cause a copy of the Convention to be laid before the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
560 observed, that since the House had taken this subject into consideration, circumstances had occurred, which rendered it necessary that the matter should again be brought under consideration of parliament. By a treaty concluded with Denmark, the valuable island of St. Croix was to be restored to that kingdom. On the whole it appeared, that it would be inconvenient to continue the duties for some time to come, as they were at present settled. The export duty was such, that little benefit was derived from the drawback. He would therefore propose, that if no circumstances should happen to render any alteration necessary, drawbacks on ex-
560The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that no mention whatever was made of Guadaloupe in the convention referred to by the hon. gentleman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the preference alluded to was granted by the existing law.Mr. Rose
 said, that he had already given all the answer in his power with respect to Guadaloupe; and that the case of Norway was to be considered in the general arrangement.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 conceived, that as long as the case of Norway remained, as be had stated, open for discussion, a desirable arrangement was not likely to be promoted by any discussion in that House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
562 admitted that it would be proper on the part of the right hon. gentleman to decline answering any question relative to points which were the subject of a pending diplomatic discussion. But a question had been put with regard to a matter of fact; namely, whether an order had been
562Mr. C. W. Wynn
 proposition was agreed to; the House resumed, and the Report was ordered to be received to-morrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer's
571 said, that, when a number of tradesmen brought petitions to him against any alteration of the existing law, he told them, that, as he had himself introduced a Bill to repeal the 5th of Elizabeth, as far as it regarded the woollen manufacturers, he of course felt a considerable bias in his mind. With that impression, he candidly informed them, that it would require a great deal of information before he could be induced to alter his opinion on the subject. He therefore advised them to be cautious in what they were about to do; as an attempt to bring into full effect the 5th of Elizabeth would probably end in disappointment. In thus acting, he was influenced by a desire not to raise expectations in their minds which perhaps never would be realised—a principle by which his conduct had always been guided. The petitioners, however, stated, that they could make out a very strong case; and all they requested was, that it might be patiently heard. In answer to this, he told them, that he had no objection to lay their petition before the House, and to take the chair of the committee to which it might be referred. The committee was appointed—it met from day to day, and, except when prevented by indisposition, he presided in it—and this he felt himself bound to admit, that the petitioners did bring forward a very strong case indeed. The learned gentleman had alluded to pipe-makers and basket-makers; it so happened, that he (Mr. Rose) did not hear that part of the evidence. But there were other trades, which the persons examined proved would be greatly deteriorated, if individuals who had not served regular apprenticeships to them were suffered to adopt them. The learned gentleman (Mr. Lockhart) had expressed himself in favour of a committee—but he did not conceive that such a proceeding would be at all useful; since the former committee was very rarely attended by more than two or three members, after they had formed a quorum. The learned gentleman (Serjeant Onslow) had, he thought, made a charge against the petitioners, which they did not deserve. He accused them of having brought actions, from malignant feelings—(No, no, from Mr. Serjeant
571Mr. Rose
 explained. When he spoke of malignant motives, he had no idea of alluding to the petitioners. With respect to the scope of the intended Bill if the right hon. gentleman had examined the order-book, he would have found, that this notice referred to the repeal of only one clause in the existing Act.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
573572 thought the conduct of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) very extraordinary. He stated, that he had himself formerly moved the repeal of this very Act, with reference to certain manu-
573572Mr. Phillips
568567566l.565**564** rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal part of an Act, passed in the 5th year of queen Elizabeth, entitled "An Act containing divers orders for artificers, labourers, servants of husbandry, and apprentices." That Act had experienced a singular fate; from a very early period after it was passed, down to the present time, the policy of it had been condemned, both by those who were to enforce it, and by every enlightened writer who had treated of the subject. The moral feelings of mankind had been so opposed to it, that it was with extreme reluctance that juries ever found verdicts in favour of the prosecutors: and it had been frittered away by the decisions of the courts. It had been early determined, that a person who had served an apprenticeship of seven years to any trade, might legally work in every other; but that determination was too violent an infringement of the plain words of the statute to be sustained, and had been abandoned. The decisions, however, which now remained, were very extraordinary; it had been determined, that a gardener was not within the statute, because it was not an occupation requiring skill, but a fruiterer was; even a pippin-monger had been held to be within the statute; the same determination had taken place as to a cook (he presumed it was determined in the city of London.) He did not mean to go through the many inconsistent decisions on the subject: he
568567566l.565**564**Mr. Serj. Onslow
 was by no means satisfied with what had been said on this subject; but he did not conceive this a proper time for delivering his sentiments upon it.Mr. Protheroe
 should be happy to find that he was under an error in opposition the measure of the repeal; but he did so from the idea that we had no means of compelling young minds to pursue a trade, except by holding forth motives of encouragement, in showing that they would thereby have advantage over their fellows. He knew that many instances might be cited of great geniuses, who had not served apprenticeships. Such was Margarot, who invented the lunar tables, and a watch for the more perfect calculation of the longitude. Taking such instances as proofs of the non-necessity of being bound for seven years, young men say, "Why should we submit to a term of bondage?" The answer of parents and masters is, "We are afraid to trust you; we will have our bond, and then we have a security for your attendance to your duty." Only take away the power to inflict the penalty; and it will be seen what a door we are opening for the neglect of our youth, who would then form their own views, and conceive themselves competent to practice a trade after only one, two, or three years initiation in its mysteries.Alderman Atkins
 objected to the undue preference which the proposition before the committee would give to those whose sugars were bonded.Mr. Alderman Atkins
570569 said, that, while he agreed in some of the propositions laid down by his hon. and learned friend, he felt considerable alarm at others which he had promulged. He certainly had shewn the inconsistency, and sometimes even the absurdity, which characterised the decisions, under the 5th of Elizabeth, in out courts of justice—and, above all, he had placed in a very striking light the danger of giving to the judges a sort of feeling, which induced them to act rather from their own ideas of policy, than from the provisions of the law. He (Mr. Lockhart) held, the same opinion on these points as his learned friend; and, with him, he also thought, that the system of seeking redress by action brought through the medium of a common informer was very objectionable. But his hon. and learned friend had not applied himself to the main object of the existing law—he had not touched upon the general necessity of apprenticeships. He appeared to thinks with most writers upon political œconomy, that regulations of this kind had better be left to the discretion of parents, and of the individuals themselves who wished to acquire any trade. If this course were followed, his learned friend was of opinion, that wages would be given, according to the contract entered into or in proportion to the ability of the party. He had also said, that skill was not to be obtained by an adherence to indentures. But this was a proposition that ought to be received with extreme caution; and therefore he was of opinion, that a committee should be appointed to investigate that fact—to examine whether apprenticeships were not
570569Mr. Lockhart
 thought that the compulsory removal of paupers should in no case be allowed; but that should the pauper consent, he might remain wherever he became necessitated to receive parochial relief; and that such relief and aid should be administered by the parish in which the pauper might reside, to be subsequently defrayed by the parish to which be belonged.Mr. Lockhart
574 was convinced, that the farther the hon. gentleman proceeded with his Bill, the more difficulty he would have to encounter. He had already caused very great alarm throughout the country; a proof of which was, the great number of signatures to the petitions which he (Mr. Moore) had presented against any alterations in the 5th of Eli-
574Mr. Peter Moore
 expressed his happiness to hear that the fate of Norway was still open to discussion; but yet the right hon. gentleman had given no answer with respect to the alleged order to intercept the supply of provisions to Norway.Mr. Whitbread
561§ thought proper to put another question or two; namely, whether it was intended to cede Guadaloupe
561§Mr. Whitbread
, from the mention, of St. Croix, and the allusion to the probable surrender of other colonies, took occasion to ask, whether the surrender of Guadaloupe was confirmed by the convention which had been that day announced to the House; and also to express a hope, that, after the gratifying intelligence which we had received of the magnanimous achievements, and the still more magnanimous equity, of the allies, it was not intended to compel Norway to submit to the government of. Sweden; at least that this country would take no part in the use of force for such an unjust purpose; but above all, that we should not join in the abominable system of starving Norway into submission?Mr. Whitbread
 professed himself peculiarly glad to learn that the case of Norway was still open to discussion; and he hoped that the Norwegians would not be excluded from the exercise of that right which legitimately belonged to all nations; namely, the choice of their own government. Indeed, after the French had been allowed to assert that right, which, as a friend to general justice, he trusted they would be always able to maintain, should the Norwegians be compelled to submit to Sweden, the whole affair would be reduced to a question of strength; and it would appear that the French were allowed to exercise a right because they were strong, from which right the Norwegians were excluded because they were weak. But he hoped and trusted, that should the Norwegians be so unjustly treated—should the allies be capable of acting so inconsistently, the British parliament, and that House in particular, would never consent to sanction the deed.Mr. W. Smith
 said, from what had occurred in the course of the debate, it appeared to him most necessary, that leave should be given to bring in the Bill, and that it should be read a first time; they would thus be perfectly aware of its provisions, and all misunderstanding on the subject would be removed. He did not place any great weight on the circumstance of the petitions against the measure being signed by a great number of persons; for, when individuals made it their business to go through the country, and to represent to the working classes that an attack was about to be made on their privileges, it was not wonderful that a great clamour should have been excited. He should not have been surprised, under such circumstances, if, instead of 300,000 persons, double that number had come forward. He had himself presented a petition from a great number of manufacturers, inhabitants of the city which he represented (Norwich) against the projected measure; but (though he had no doubt many of them were his constituents), as an independent, member of parliament, that circumstance should not deter him from giving the proposed Bill a full and fair consideration—He thought, that, when the measure came to be discussed, there would be a great number of speakers against it; but he had no doubt there would be a large majority of votes for it.Mr. W. Smith
563 rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to a subject which had often engaged the attention of the legislature—the Poor Laws. To defend himself from any imputation of presumption, he thought it necessary to premise, that he did not mean to propose any thing contrary to the spirit of existing laws on the subject. There was no principle more generally approved by the legislature, and by all the writers on political economy, than that the poor should in as much as possible have the power of choosing their residence. It was the opinion of sir W. Blackstone, of lord Kaimes, of Adam Smith, of sir W. Young. What he meant to propose on this point had already received the sanction of the House, but was involved in a very large Bill. His first disposition was, that a settlement should be obtained in a parish by a certain number of years residence in it; either ten, seven, or five years. The next provision was, that paupers who had been thrice relieved, should not be prevented from having further relief. The third proposal of the hon. baronet was, that magistrates should have the power of affording medical aid to the poor, whether they belonged to the parish or not. Another proposal was, that servants (unmarried), who had been two years in a parish, were entitled to a settlement. The hon. member also proposed a number of minor measures conducive to the comfort of the
563Sir E. Brydges
 in explanation of this circumstance observed, that the depression of the funds was caused by the expectation of a loan, the amount of which had been considerably exaggerated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 spoke in support of the present system.Mr. Martin
, in consideration for the friends and families of those gallant men who had so unavailingly and lamentably fallen in the late actions at Toulouse and Bayonne, thought it right to ask what steps had been taken by our ambassador in France, by the British commissioners attached to the allied armies, or by the government at home, to send intelligence to our army under lord Wellington, of what took place at Paris from the 31st of March to the 12th instant.Mr. Fremantle
 had no doubt it would be found that no practicable steps had been left untaken either by the English ambassador, by the commissioners alluded to, or by the government at home, to send the earliest intelligence of the events at Paris to the army alluded to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not consider the answer of the right hon. gentleman as satisfactory. He wished to know the date at which the several dispatches had been transmitted to lord Wellington.Mr. Fremantle
 declared, that he could not at present precisely state the dates required; but the hon. gentleman might make a motion upon the subject if he thought proper.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it proper to move for copies of any papers or documents transmitted by the English ambassador or military commissioners with the allied armies to the English army in France, from the 31st of March to the 12th instant, with regard to what occurred in France, together with the dates of the same.Mr. Fremantle
 suggested an amendment, by the addition of "or by his Majesty's government in this county."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his conviction that it would be found that every possible step had been taken to transmit that intelligence, the delay of which had occasioned the shedding of so much valuable blood. Nothing, therefore, remained for these melancholy events, but unavailing regret.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 disclaimed the intention of casting any imputation upon either the British ambassador, our commissioners with the allied armies, or the government at home; but he felt it due to the families of those who had so gallantly fallen, to shew that nothing had been left undone which ought to have been done, to prevent such wanton sacrifices. The consolation was small, but still it ought to be administered.Mr. Fremantle
 thought it right to correct an error in the statement of the hon. baronet, for he had brought forward no charges whatever against general Ainslie; but having seen statements in the public papers, containing the most serious charges against the conduct and character of that officer, he felt it his duty to put certain questions, and to move for the production of documents in that House, with a view to the elucidation of those charges.Sir H. Mildmay
 said, that he had no authority to make any answer to the hon. gentleman's question upon the subject referred to.Mr. Rose
l.581 said, that the observations which he was prepared to offer, were much abridged by the manner in which the subject had been
l.581The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that such a proceeding was inadmissible. It was competent for any member to move for the production of any papers that he thought proper; but no member could, of his own mere will, lay any papers before that House. The hon. baronet might, however, go on with the statement of his case, if he had any motion in view.The Speaker
l.l.l.;l.l.580l.l.l.579, pursuant to notice relative to this subject, began by expressing his regret that what he had to say on a topic of such great importance had not fallen to the task of a more competent person, as it was known to be one on which a considerable difference of opinion existed. He begged the House distinctly to understand, that his sole reason for noticing the subject was, that it might receive not only their most attentive consideration, but that of the public at large. The clause to which he should particularly allude, was that introduced in the original Bill of 1786, by the late Mr. Fox, and which was acknowledged by the late Mr. Pitt to have been a masterpiece of the ability of its great and enlightened author. The subject, however, was so familiar, that any details on the nature of the clause were perfectly unnecessary; yet it might be expected that he should enter somewhat at length, into the mode and practice of carrying the Act into execution. The Act of the 26th of the King laid the foundation of the Sinking Fund; a measure not only the most clear and regular in its operation, but the most powerful, of any that was ever devised in support of the finance of this country. Nothing, therefore, could be farther from his intention, than to offer any opposition to the measure itself, or its progressive routine; but if the ideas he should suggest were duly considered and adopted, he was convinced that fresh vigour might be given to the excellent system. The hon. gentleman here gave an outline of the nature of the Act, and observed, that the uniform and uninterrupted operations of the commissioners had had the effect of accumulating hundreds of millions in their hands. The mode they adopted was this: they had employed agents and brokers to lay out certain sums of money, at regular periods, in the 3 per cents. At the passing of the Act in 1786, they applied their
l.l.l.;l.l.580l.l.l.579Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l.l.l., in reply, said he had been misunderstood. His plan, instead of injuring the Sinking Fund, would add to the means of the commissioners for extinguishing the National Debt. He had asked one of the contractors for the last loan if 12,000,000l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Grenfell
582 could not approve of
582Mr. S. Thornton
577 anticipated that the right hon. gentleman had no authority upon the subject; but as the right hon. gentleman had opportunities of communication with ministers, he thought it right to state his wish and opinion, in the hope that it would be communicated, and have some effect;
577Mr. Whitbread
, although he saw no minister in his place, took this opportunity of the mention of the Slave Trade, to express a hope, that in the pending congress a decisive declaration would be made by all the allies against the continuance of this nefarious traffic; and that this declaration would be followed up by efficient acts on the part of each of those allies; at least, that the utmost influence of this country would be used to promote this desirable and desired end. Of this opportunity he thought it proper to avail himself, to state his wish upon the interesting subject alluded to, because it might be the last opportunity that would offer in due time; although the right hon. gentleman might not be enabled to make him any answer respecting it.Mr. Whitbread
576 considered the hon. baronet's
576Mr. Creevey
 said, that he did not wish to press the matter farther at present; but he hoped that that House and the country would suspend its judgment upon the charges against general Ainslie, until the whole of the case were investigated, and its merits fully ascertained.Sir R. Heron
 stated, that from the letters he had alluded to, it would appear that the flogging which seemed to form the chief ground of complaint was inflicted upon a run-away slave, who was a Frenchman by birth, and who had been guilty of theft.Sir R. Heron
ex parte expressed a wish to lay before the House duplicates of certain letters which had been received from the West Indies with respect to those transactions in the West Indies which had within a few days become the subject of conversation in that House. He was not present on Monday, when the conduct of general Ainslie, relative to these transactions, had been animadverted upon; but he lamented the censure, and deprecated any decision upon the character of an officer high in his Majesty's service on mere rumour or ex parteSir Robert Heron
592 rose, pursuant to notice, without, he said, intending to trouble the House with any length of observation on the subject. He did not mean to require any information either as to what was doing or intended to be done in the pending negociation, but solely to enquire as to our situation and relation with regard to Norway. In reply to a question which he had yesterday put, namely, whether we were now at peace or at war with Norway? his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had thought proper to state merely, that the government of this country did not recognise Norway as an independent nation, but as an integral part of the kingdom of Denmark. This reply, however, he could not deem satisfactory. For referring to the case of France, although after the deposition of the monarchy in 1792, the
592Mr. C. Wynn
 said, he was happy that he had it in his power, according to his hon. friend's statement, to take that course which would serve to avert any premature discussion upon the subject. For he felt no difficulty in stating, that his Majesty's government had, in, concert with Sweden and our other allies, issued an order for blockading the ports of Norway.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
605604in foro conscientiæ,603602 said, he felt exactly in the same situation as his learned friend (Mr. Wetherell), who had preceded him. Great names were certainly arrayed in favour of the measure; yet, however diffident he might be, in standing forward against such acknowledged ability, he felt himself conscientiously called upon to oppose the farther progress of the Bill. Exercising his own discretion on the subject, he must say, that his judgment dissented from the argument adduced by the gentlemen who had supported the measure. If it were a matter personal to himself, after having heard the opinions delivered by men of so much learning and experience, even if he thought that they were not perfectly right, still he would rather have deferred to their judgment, than have implicitly followed his own; then he might, without imputation, sacrifice his private opinion; but, as a member of parliament, he stood there to give to his constituents, and to the public,
605604in foro conscientiæ,603602The Solicitor General
597pabulumin foro conscientiæin foro conseientiæ,596 thought that the late innovations made, and endeavoured to be made, upon landed property, would give rise to much inconvenience.—In the principle of such a Bill as this, as it applied to traders, he willingly concurred. In consequence of the great increase of trade, and the importance of commerce to the country, such a law was necessary. One of his reasons for opposing the present Bill was, that, if they passed it, it would be
597pabulumin foro conscientiæin foro conseientiæ,596Mr. Wetherell
600599598 said, his hon. and learned friend (sir Arthur Piggott) had, with all the eloquence and learning which he so eminently possessed, defended the Bill on the broad ground of justice, which required that the present law should no longer be suffered to exist. In answer to this, the learned gentleman (Mr. Wetherell) asked, "Can any mischief or inconvenience be now stated to rise from it, which has not existed for the last three or four hundred years?" If, however, the length of their duration were to be considered a sufficient reason for perpetuating grievances—if their antiquity were a plea sufficient to prevent their removal—then the learned gentleman himself had acted inconsistently; for he had given his assent to a measure brought into that House, some years ago, by his learned friend (sir S. Romilly), by which the estates of commercial men were made liable to the bankrupt laws. The arguments which he had applied to the present case, bore equally upon the former!—And, indeed, the very same objections might be advanced against the Statute of Frauds, important and salutary as it was allowed to be. The learned gentleman had observed, that moral principle ought not to be considered by itself in this case—but that it should be connected with views of political expediency. Were they, then, to put the cause of justice out of the way—were they indeed to forget every moral principle, because some question of political expediency intervened? The learned gentleman observed, that a man who entered into a verbal contract to sell his estate, could not be compelled to ratify that contract, if he did not please. Such conduct, he allowed, was perfectly unjust; but still the law supported him in thus acting; and, therefore, he inferred, that the law made morality bow its head to expediency. Now, the fact was quite contrary—the principle on which the Statute of Frauds proceeded was, not to prevent simple contracts from being enforced, but to guard against the reception of parole evidence, which might be improperly obtained. That law was
600599598Mr. Stephen
601 said, when his learned friend (sir S. Romilly) first brought forward this measure, it struck him, that it could not be opposed, except on the ground of some great public inconvenience being likely to arise from it. In consequence of this, be examined the Statute of Frauds, which supplied him with the same powerful argument in support of the Bill, that his learned friend (Mr. Stephen) had already submitted to the House. He had next looked into the Statute of Fraudulent Devises, which was drawn up by men of very great ability; he there found it enacted, that debts should be paid out of the estates of men deceased; but its provisions did not extend to any but specialty debts—simple contract debts were not recognized by it.—It appeared to him, therefore, that, in making this distinction, the great men who had framed the Act, were influenced by some very grave and important considerations. He therefore proceeded to a gentleman, of very great experience, in the Master's Office in Chancery, and enquired, "Whether, where a man devised his estate for the payment of his debts, in general, he had ever known any public inconvenience to arise from the disposal of the property?" He was answered, "Never." He next enquired. "Whether, where persons proved their debts, by their own oaths, he was aware of any evil having
601Mr. Lockhart
 supported the Bill; and asked what was to become of the claims of creditors on simple contract debts where the debtor died prematurely, before the debts could be made special? He considered this measure as likely to produce great benefit, and liable to no just objection.Mr. Preston
593 argued against the measure as inexpedient and unnecessary; because it was owing rather to the neglect of creditors themselves than to the deficiency of the existing law, that their claims were not put into a proper shape to inforce their payment; namely, by rendering their claims what the law called "special." He would not therefore consent to alter a law of long establishment, in the existence of which the landed proprietors and the aristocracy were so much interested, and the character of which was sustained by so many high legal authorities. Besides, if the law were altered, by rendering freehold estates liable for simple contract debts, facilities would be afforded to young heirs to contract improvident debts, and, to fraudulent claimants
593Mr. Serjeant Best
 said a few words against the Bill, as one likely to augment the facilities of obtaining credit; and to excite, in tradesmen, an increased avidity to grant it, when they knew that real property was rendered liable for debts.Mr. D. Giddy
 (the member alluded to) then gave notice, that, on Thursday, he should move for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the copy-right of books, pursuant to the report of the committee last session.Mr. D. Giddy
l.595594 said, he would willingly contribute whatever aid he could towards the support of this Bill. The proposition upon which this Bill was founded appeared to him so plain, that it did not seem capable of being resisted. That men should contract debts, and not have their property liable to the payment of them, was so inconsistent with justice—was a thing so preposterous, that he wondered any person could be found hardy enough to support it. This was the second time in his parliamentary life, when an opportunity was afforded him of contributing his vote to remove from the law of the country that reproach to which it was so justly subject. Three centuries had now elapsed since the Statute of Wills enabled men to dispose of their property as they pleased, even so far as leaving it to persons not in the remotest degree connected with them, and the farthest removed from their natural affections; not even saving the rights of their heirs, or the rights of creditors. Such was the slow progress of legal improvement, that 151 years elapsed after this statute, before the Statute of Fraudulent Devises passed, in the year 1641, by which creditors were in some measure protected. For a space of 151 years, creditors remained in such a situation, that they might be disappointed by specialty; and, after that time, for 151 years more, a person might owe, if possible, a sum equal to the national debt, and, by avoiding certain solemnities in his contract, might dispose of his property so as altogether to disappoint his creditors. Ought the law, he would ask, to remain in such a situation as this? Since he was capable of considering the matter, his opinion open it never varied for one moment; nor did he see any thing in the arguments which he had
l.595594Sir Arthur Piggott
 moved, that a notice of his, on the subject of the copy-right of books, should be discharged; as he saw an hon. gentleman in his place, with whom the subject had originated, and in whose hands it would therefore better continue. Ordered.Sir E. Brydges
607l.606 said, that much of what he intended to have urged in behalf of the measure, was anticipated by the gentlemen who preceded him. If those who opposed the present measure were right in their opposition, they ought to move for the repeal of that Act by which the estates of traders were made subject to the bankrupt laws, because the same arguments applied in the one case with equal propriety as in the other. A learned friend of his had said, that lord Kenyon and the earl of Rosslyn were both of opinion, that no alteration should be made in the present system—and that, from his respect for those great men, he would oppose the passing of the intended Bill. In this instance, he thought his learned friend's respect for great names was carried to a very unusual extent indeed. But it so happened, that the opinion of lord Rosslyn was directly the other way. His lordship, in the case of Perry, 4th Vesey, jun. said to the counsel—"I wish I could adopt your principle—if I could go so far, I would go farther. It would be desirable that the estate should be liable to the payment of all simple contract debts."—Mr. Justice Blackstone spoke on the subject in a most decided way; and he was not a man likely to remove any of the land marks of the constitution. Speaking of the powers of a court of equity, he thus expressed himself—"Hard is the common law; still declaring, that land devised or descending to the heir, shall not be liable to the simple contract debts of the ancestor or devisor; although the money was laid out in purchasing the very land; and that the father shall never immediately succeed as heir to the real estate of the son. But a court of equity can give no relief; though in both these instances, the artificial reason of the law, arising from feodal principles, has long ago entirely ceased." Lord Macclesfield also
607l.606Sir S. Romilly
 said, the House was not correctly in possession of the object of the amended Bill. Its object was, to proceed immediately with part of the work; but it by no means implied that the whole line of canal would not be subsequently cut.Mr. Yorke
 presented at the bar copies of the Treaties signed on the 1st of March last, between this country and Austria, Russia, and Prussia; and also a copy of the Convention for the Cessation of Hostilities between England and France, signed at Paris on the 23d of April. Having moved that they should be upon the table; he observed, that nothing more would be necessary at present, than to observe, that the consideration of the Convention, and of the Subsidiary Treaties, would take place in a Committee of Supply.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was not aware, that it was the intention of government to submit those papers to the House; but, at a future period, when the subsidies themselves were under their consideration, it would be competent for any member to move for their production.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that he was not prepared to signify that they would be refused.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 answered, that to some of the Allied Powers advances had been given out of the provision which had been made at the conclusion of the last session, for the general purpose of assisting the Allies.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.—Some advances have been made subsequent to the signing of the treaties at Chaumont.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
632"An account of all sums of money paid
632 rose to move for some papers respecting the situation of Norway, to the production of which he understood there would be no objection. The hon. gentleman then moved, that there should be laid before the House,
632"An account of all sums of money paid
632Mr. C. W. Wynn
633 said, that with respect to the motion of the hon. gentleman (Mr. C. W. Wynn), he was not aware of any objection to the production of the information he required, as far as it
633The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that it could not be expected he should be prepared to answer all the questions that had been put to him. With respect to the Treaty with Sweden, it was one which last year had received the approbation of parliament. The House would recollect, that the Treaty between Russia and Sweden was the key-stone of that glorious confederacy by which such signal benefits to Europe had been achieved. For our part, we had done nothing in the course of the whole of the proceedings, but in the strictest concert with our allies, and which we had not been unanimously called on by them to do. It was perfectly true, that we had not engaged to guarantee Norway to Sweden, after the cession of if by Denmark; but that cession had not taken place. It would be improper for him to go more particularly into this subject at present; but he desired that the House would suspend their judgment upon it, until the whole case came before them. The hon. gentleman opposite had been greatly misinformed. It was by no means true, that from one end of Norway to the other there existed a spirit of resistance to the Swedish government. It was equally unfounded, that no liberal offer had been made to Norway on her annexation to Sweden. On the contrary, a more generous offer had been made than in any other case of cession that had occurred in the history of the world. With respect to the causes that had led to the rejection of this offer, the present was not the proper time to communicate them to parliament. As to the Danish commissioners, he was not aware that any officer from Denmark, with such an object as that ascribed to him, was in the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was happy to give his most cordial concurrence to the motion of the hon. gentleman; and he could not refrain from hoping, that when the subject should be submitted to the consideration of that most illustrious assembly of sovereigns, its important views would be effected, and they would be anxious to wipe away the iniquitous stain. He could not but hope, that the unanimous declaration of the British parliament would have a due effect; and that the hon. gentleman would witness the conclusion of that happy work, which he had so ably and so perseveringly carried forward.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
643 said, he was happy to give his unqualified approbation to the Address; and agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in opinion, that it could not fail to have great weight with the Allied Powers on the continent. Experience had proved, that too great extension of empire had only led to the degradation and unhappiness of that portion of mankind who possessed it. Luckily for the world, the late events had decidedly shewn this, and brought the different powers to a sense of the real state of things, which contributed to make an empire or
643Mr. Ponsonby
645644 rose, not to express his sentiments on the abolition of the Slave Trade; that was unnecessary, as they were already well known to the House; he rose to declare it to be his opinion, that the vote which they were about to come to that night, would not be a barren vote; but one that would materially aid the great cause they were anxious to promote. Their unanimity on this occasion would not merely support what they had already done, but would do much towards persuading the great powers of Europe to unite with England to put down the Slave Trade. Let it not be said, when this language was held, that the English were always vaunting of their importance in, and influence over Europe. On such an occasion, they had a right to expect that their authority and example would produce the happiest results. With those powers who had not acknowledged the injustice of this traffic in human blood, the authority of Great. Britain must have some weight; and with that larger portion, who, approving the principle acted upon by England, feared the application of it in their own case, our example must prevail. The apprehensions they at present
645644Mr. Canning
646 could not refrain from ex
646Mr. J. Smith
621 observed, that the question which had been raised by the hon. member was one important to the safety of their own proceedings, and the interests of private property and he therefore wished the attention of the House to be particularly given to it Here was a Bill, founded upon one that had passed last session, but essentially changing its object
621The Speaker
 suggested, that the better way would be to let the Bill proceed through its present stage, and postpone the third reading for eight or ten days; to give the parties time to petition upon the question of the standing order. This proposition was acceded to by Mr. Brand.The Speaker
 said, he would not attempt to detain the House but for a very few moments, lest what he might say should weaken the effect produced by the speakers who had preceded him. He could not, however, withhold himself from expressing his approbation of the conduct of ministers, in having so warmly seconded the Address; and hoped they would use their strenuous endeavours with the Allied Powers to induce them to concur cordially in the measure, which he feared would otherwise be nugatory.Mr. Protheroe
 observed, addressing himself to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he had a few evenings since asked, whether his Majesty's government had, in the general order for the release of prisoners of war in this country, made any distinction with regard to the Danish prisoners? The right hon. gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) then said, he did not know of any such distinction; and, indeed, as he (Mr. Horner) understood we were in relations of peace with the crown of Denmark, he was not disposed to believe that such a distinction had existed. He had since, however, received an assurance, that an order had been issued by the Transport Board to detain the Danish prisoners of war. This was a subject on which he thought the House of Commons ought not to be left in doubt; he trusted, therefore, that the right hon. gentleman would now answer, whether such really was the case or not?Mr. Horner
 could take upon himself to state, that those connected with the West India colonies were as anxious as any other class of persons could be, for the universal abolition of the Slave Trade. Unless, however, the House and the country went farther than they had yet gone in this business, though they had washed their own hands of the guilt, they had done little towards lessening the evil which they proposed to remedy; as, while the subjects of other countries engaged in it at all, they did more in proportion as this country did less. From the Report of the African Society it appeared, that up to the year 1810, the average number of slaves obtained from Africa annually amounted to 80,000; one half of which were carried away by the Spaniards, and the other half by the Portuguese. The traffic which was formerly carried on in English ships was thus kept up in Spanish and Portuguese vessels. The abolition of the Slave Trade had produced one good effect, that of greatly ameliorating the condition of the slaves in the colonies. The negroes were much better treated, and the old system of having night and day gangs had been abandoned. The total abolition of the Slave Trade would be a glorious consummation of the happy events lately witnessed in Europe; and he thought the Prince Regent could not be called upon to perform a more grateful task, than that which the resolution before the House, went to assign, to him.Mr. Marryatt
647 said, those were deceived, who imagined that every man in England wished for the abolition of the Slave Trade. Before he knew any thing of the present motion, it had come to his ears, that there were persons in this country base enough to wish for the return of peace, on account of the facilities it would afford for carrying on this detestable traffic under another flag. He was glad that this motion had been so ably supported by his right hon. friend near him (Mr. Ponsonby), and the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Canning); as the demonstration, thus made, would convince those persons to whom he had alluded, that the legislature was intent upon procuring the perfect abolition of the Slave Trade throughout the world. At a former period, when we recommended the abolition of the Slave Trade to the other powers of Europe, it was thought we ought to set the example, by abolishing it ourselves. It was under such circumstances that the last peace was concluded; and reflections were then cast on the advocates for the abolition of the Slave Trade in that House, because such a step had not been taken. That blot remained on our character no longer. We had now set the example. He was glad to concur in the Address, and he hoped it would produce a general and beneficial effect—beneficial even according to the most sordid calculation—as the trading interest of every country would profit by it. He had been present at many of the debates that preceded the abolition of the Slave Trade in this country, which perhaps boasted the greatest display of eloquence (from the members then on both, sides of the House) ever witnessed in the world. Mr. Pitt commenced the march, of one of his speeches, by appealing to those who would only consider their interest, who had no feeling but in their purse; and demonstrated, by arguments which could not be answered, that it was their interest to put an end to a traffic so disgraceful. He had then, with that eloquence which he so well knew how to use, applied himself to persuade them to do it. This argument ought now to be held out to the deluded governments of Spain and Portugal, and to that most deluded go
647Mr. Whitbread
. Have any advances been made subsequent to the signing to the signing of treaties at Chaumont?Mr. Whitbread
637 asked, whether the offer of a constitution, or of a participation in the Swedish constitution (which the right hon. gentleman had chosen to characterise as the most liberal offer that had ever been made to a nation in the history of the world) was not preceded by a demand to the Norwegians to deliver up their fortresses and arms? He would also ask, if in
637Mr. Whitbread
636635634en masse, said, he was happy to hear from the right hon. gentleman that negociations were still carrying on respecting Norway. He was happy, not for Norway as a power, but for Norway as a people. The case of Norway, he believed, was not much understood in this country; it was one, however, worthy of the most serious and solemn consideration. They had been told, that the ratifications of the Treaty between England and Denmark had not yet been exchanged; but they had not been told why. For himself, he found it difficult to imagine a reason, when he reflected on the distance between the two countries. Not only, however, were the ratifications unexchanged, but the treaty had not even found its way into the usual channels of intelligence in this country—he meant the daily journals. He had himself been utterly ignorant of its stipulations, till very lately, that a copy of it passed into his hands; and upon examining them, he found the second article provided that "all prisoners of war should be given up, 636635634en masse,Mr. Whitbread
 wished to ask another question, whether any advances of money had been made to any or all of the Allied Powers, subsequent to, and in consequence of, the Treaties that were signed? He did not mean to imply, that any advances so made would have been improper; but he wished to know the fact.Mr. Whitbread
.—Then it is determined upon, that they shall be refused?Mr. Whitbread
 enquired whether the right hon. gentleman and his colleagues had come to a determination not to submit to the House those papers relative to the negociation at Chatillon, which were prepared for it, but which, in consequence of the subsequent extraordinary events in Europe, they had deemed it proper to withhold. He did not see how it would be possible to consider the Treaties now laid before them, without the communication of those antecedent documents.Mr. Whitbread
 rose and observed, that, according to the standing order of their House, new notices ought to have been given to those individuals who had signified their consent to the cutting of this canal. The present was a Bill to amend a former Bill passed in the last session; but the amendments were of a description that wholly altered the original Act. It totally changed and varied the line of the canal; and it became a question for consideration, whether those who had assented to the first plan, were bound to consent to the second; he should therefore move, that the Report be received this day six months.Mr. Brand
 observed, it must be remembered, that the chief opposition to the abolition of the Slave Trade came from Liverpool, from Bristol, and from those connected with the West Indies. They had lived to see that which was too extraordinary ever to have been prophesied or expected. They had seen (on the present occasion) a motion, which had for its object the total annihilation of the Slave Trade, supported and eulogized by the eloquent member for Liverpool, by the member for Bristol, and by a gentleman intimately connected with the West Indies, who, he believed, might be considered to act almost officially for the colonial interest. This circumstance was so remarkable that he could not help noticing it. Nothing could be more consoling than this reflection; and nothing could hold out a more well-founded hope that the whole world would eventually join in the same object.Mr. W. Smith
642641640639638 said, that in rising to make the motion which he now intended to propose, he felt gratified in reflecting that it would not be necessary to take up the time of the House, by detailing, at any length, those considerations which rendered such a step advisable. The House had already recognized and acted upon them in 1806 and 1810, when they consented to an address to the throne, similar, in effect, to what he now wished them to adopt. It was impossible for any one to open his eyes, and look abroad upon the world, without feeling that there never was a period when the general circumstances of all nations were more favourable to such a motion than the present, and when there existed such powerful motives for them to accede to its object. It was something to have an occasion like this presented, when all the great powers of Europe were assembled in congress to consider and discuss the very elements, as it were, of their own political rights; it was something to have such a moment presented for urging the consideration of the wrongs of Africa. When, indeed, he reflected upon these circumstances, and when he recalled to memory that extraordinary succession of providential events which had placed the world in its present state of hope and security, he could not but contemplate in them the hand of the Almighty stretched out for the deliverance of mankind. And what more acceptable token of gratitude could be displayed towards heaven—what more acceptable proof of our delight and thankfulness for such mercies, than a measure like the one he now meant to propose? It might truly be said, that the great continental powers had been acting in its very spirit and effect; and when, too, were considered the provocations that all of them had received, and some in particular, and the glorious revenge they had taken, saving from ruin instead of inflicting it; the recognition of the principles he was about to recommend was so plain, that it afforded a sure ground and confident hope that they would be acknowledged, in all which he now wished to obtain, as a sequel merely of what they had so nobly begun.
642641640639638Mr. Wilberforce
 wished the hon. baronet had explained the nature and extent of the duties to be paid by vessels, according to this Bill; and how far they were different from those already levied by former Acts.Sir C. Monck
 observed, in reply, that there was no port from Portsmouth to London where ships could enter, except Ramsgate; it was but fair, therefore, that they should pay towards, defraying the expences incident to keeping the harbour in a safe and good state.Sir W. Curtis
 informed the hon. member, that he certainly was alive, but he did not know what was the intention of government with regard to his liberation.Mr. Peel
650 wished to draw the attention of the right hon. gentleman to an omission which he considered as remarkable, in the convention between this country and France. In the article relating to the exchange of prisoners, it
650Mr. Wynn
 said, he was not prepared to give any precise explanation upon the subject, as it was one that would be for the consideration of the respective governments.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
651, in reply
651The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, they were questions which he did not think it proper to answer.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 perfectly coincided in the propriety of the recommendation of his hon. friend. In one respect, however, it was the intention of government to propose an increase of expenditure. The country owed a vast debt of gratitude to our brave army and navy for those glorious efforts by which the contest in which we had been engaged was at length brought to a successful termination. That debt ought to be in some degree diminished by an attention to the comforts of those gallant men; and it was therefore in contemplation to propose an increase of their half pay.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.—Certainly not.Mr. Goulburn
 could not take upon himself to say whether he was alive or not; but he had had a conversation respecting him with the Secretary of State for the home department.Mr. Goulburn
 said, he was happy to have an opportunity of answering the hon. member's question. Governor Gore had received leave of absence for three months previously to the breaking out of hostilities between this country and America. Immediately upon that event taking place, he expressed his wish to return; but if he had returned, he would, from the nature of his office, have had the command of the militia of Upper Canada. It was thought better, however, that the person who commanded the regular forces should also command the militia, and therefore it was intimated to governor Gore that his return to his government was not immediately required. The hon. member had been misinformed with respect to the emoluments; he only received one half.Mr. Goulburn
 contended, that it would be very hard upon governor Gore, if he had been required to abandon his post because government did not think it expedient that he should return to it at a particular crisis of political affairs there.Mr. Goulburn
.—It certainly would not have been the duty of government to do so.Mr. Goulburn
l. rose to make his promised motion for papers respecting the Sinking Fund; and after having defended himself from the charge made against him by the hon. member for Surrey, of having misrepresented the opinion of Mr. Pitt on the clause in Mr. Fox's Bill on that subject, was proceeding to read an extract from the debates of that period; when the Speaker submitted to the House how far such a proceeding would be consistent with their usages. A short conversation on this subject ensued, in which Mr. Thornton, Mr. Tierney, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Whitbread, and Mr. Bankes participated. Mr. Grenfell then resumed his speech, read the extract to which he had alluded, and concluded by moving, "That there be laid before this House, an account of all monies expended by the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt, together with the amount of capital stock obtained for the same in any of the public funds, bearing interest at 3l.Mr. P. Grenfell
 asked, whether governor Gore had not been recalled for misdemeanors?Mr. P. Moore
.—Then, if the governor had been upon the spot at the time the war with America broke out, it would have been the duty of government to have recalled him, and given him half-pay?Mr. Whitbread
 professed himself not satisfied with the reply of the hon. member respecting governor Gore. He thought it was not a creditable account to give to the House; and if the nature of the office was such, that the civil governor of a colony was to be recalled, and placed upon half-pay, in the event of a war happening in such colony, he thought there ought to be some alteration made.Mr. Whitbread
 repeated his inquiries respecting the civil governor of Upper Canada, who, he was informed, had been absent two years from his command, and yet received all the emoluments of it.Mr. Whitbread
 begged leave to call the attention of the House once more to the case of this individual; to inquire if he was alive; and if alive, whether he had been released. He thought the present state of Europe was such as no longer to justify his detention.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he had received no reply to his questions. He would repeat them. Was there such a treaty in existence? Was the English minister required to sign it, and did he refuse to do so? Was not a British officer now acting in furtherance of its stipulations by attending Buonapartè to the coast?Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the right hon. gentleman had not yet given any notice of the day when he meant to move the consideration of the Treaties of Subsidy and Alliance in a Committee of Supply. He hoped he would give ample notice to allow time for any member to move for those papers relating to the negociations at Chatillon, the knowledge of which was become more necessary now than ever. According to the second article of those treaties it was stipulated, that upon the refusal, by the late emperor of France, to accede to certain proposals, certain acts were to be done by the contracting parties. How could they know what these proposals were, without the communication of the papers referred to? There was another and a most extraordinary treaty also, of which no mention had been made, though he wished to know whether it was in existence, and likely to be laid before the House. He alluded to a treaty, signed on the 11th of April, with the late emperor of France, by all the allies, except England; and in furtherance of the stipulations of which treaty, an English officer was now acting, by superintending the removal of Buonaparté from France to the island of Elba. There might be good reasons for not communicating this treaty to the House; but he wished to know whether such a treaty was in existence, and whether the government intended to refuse it or not.Mr. Whitbread
649 rose to ask a question re-
649Mr. Creevey
 applauded the object of the hon. mover; and took the opportunity to recommend to government, now that the happy discontinuance of war would enable them to do so, the utmost vigilance and economy in the domestic expenditure of the country.Mr. Huskisson
, in explanation, observed, that he never said any thing so absurd as what had been attributed to him respecting the prices. He had said, that whenever the legislature had interfered to raise the prices, those of the markets invariably got up. He did not either wish or expect the hon. baronet to go through the 130 Acts; he had only said, that there were about 30 of the number which the committee ought to have looked into.Mr. Rose
 said, it was his intention to move that the Speaker should not leave the chair; and was proceeding to speak; whenMr. Rose
669***668667***669***668667***Mr. Rose
720 warmly supported the propositions. It had been supposed, that the measure recommended would raise the price of provisions, consequently the price of labour; and, in the result, prevent the competition of our manufacturers in foreign markets. If, however, it could be shown that those results would not be produced,
720Mr. W. Douglas
719s. felt the force of many of the arguments which had fallen from the last speaker. He admitted the question respecting our currency to be of great importance respecting our foreign trade. He wished the Speaker to leave the chair; as he thought it desirable that the first resolution of the Report should be agreed to, if, in the present instance, they proceeded no further. That carried, the subject could stand over for a time; as he apprehended the present state of the exchanges furnished as great protection against the importation of corn as the hon. baronet could desire, seeing they were at least equal to a duty of 20719s.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that there appeared little difference of opinion on the subject; but on a question of such importance it was expedient that the House should not come to immediate decision.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that one or two questions of form were to be attended to before the right hon. gentleman could go on to argue on such a question.The Speaker
 here interrupted the hon. gentleman. It was necessary that the question, whether the debate be now resumed, should be disposed of before the debate could be commenced.The Speaker
721 opposed the proposed resolutions. The hon. baronet proposed to increase the growth of corn to such an extent, as would operate to lower the price; in, this he opposed the hon. ba-
721Lord A. Hamilton
 appealed to the candour of the hon. baronet, whether it was proper to bring on the question then.Mr. Protheroe
666 said, that the question which he meant to put to the candour of the hon. baronet was, whether he thought it proper that the debate should be then resumed. On Monday last, when the hon. baronet had moved for the resumption of the debate, it appeared to be the opinion of the House, that it was postponed in order to give time to consider the resolutions; and that two days were little enough for that purpose. The hon. baronet had therefore postponed the debate till Thursday, in order to have the resolutions printed. They had not been delivered to members until that morning, and they were now called on to discuss the subject after only a few hours consideration. Indeed, for his own part, having been engaged all the morning in private committees, he had not had time to consider them at all. Under these circumstances, it was really to be wished that the House might have at least two days to think upon the subject; before they were called on to decide on the price at
666Mr. Protheroe
s.s.718s. was of opinion, that, under every sense of justice and national interest, the House should proceed upon this subject with the utmost caution. It bad come to his knowledge, that there were opinions abroad, that the committee had been influenced by sinister motives; that they had separate interests to attend to; that the Report was calculated to grant a sort of protection which should put money into the pockets of the corn growers at the expence of the poor; that they thought more of this particular interest at the time, than of the interest of the public at large. These insinuations were additional reasons why the subject should have the most fair and deliberate discussion, in order that such partial suspicions might be done away. It was not consistent with justice, that protections and monopolies should be allowed to one class of persons at the expence of another, any attempt of the kind would of necessity, fail. This measure, placing an obstacle in the way of the importation of corn, could not fail to raise the price of it. It would have no effect at all, or it would do this. If the price of corn were increased, the necessary, though not the immediate consequence was, that the price of labour would also be increased, and an advance in the prices of manufactures would follow; so that when the farmer went to market, met by increased charges every where, his 90s.s.718s.Mr. Frankland Lewis
 explained. He had not supposed such a character belonged to them; but merely stated, that it had come to his knowledge that such an idea had, in some instances, gone abroad.Mr. F. Lewis
s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.725724723 said, he would not trespass on the House longer than was necessary to explain the amendment which he was about to offer. The two grand objects the House had to obtain by the proposed measures were, first, to render the country try independent of foreign supply; and, secondly, to keep the price of corn as nearly equal possible. Under the system, which had been pursued for nearly equal as possible. Under the system which had been pursued for nearly fifty years, the country had been gradually becoming more and more dependant on foreign countries for a supply of grain, and the prices had been kept in a continual state of fluctuation. All this
s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.725724723Mr. Huskisson
 said, for the sake of unanimity, he would agree to the amendment; but he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would feel the extent of the concession.Sir H. Parnell
 was ready to admit, that in some parts of his speech he had misunderstood the right honourable gentleman.Sir Henry Parnell
716vice versa.715714713712d.d.s.s.1188From 1803 to 1812
1188From 1803 to 1812865From 1794 to 1803
865From 1794 to 1803744From 1764 to 1794
744From 1764 to 1794333the Act of Charles 2.
333the Act of Charles 2.d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, under
d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, underAverage Prices.
Average Prices.
1188From 1803 to 1812
1188From 1803 to 1812865From 1794 to 1803
865From 1794 to 1803744From 1764 to 1794
744From 1764 to 1794333the Act of Charles 2.
333the Act of Charles 2.d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, under
d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, underAverage Prices.
Average Prices.711710s.s.s.s.s.s.s.;s.709s.s.,s.;s.708 felt extremely obliged to the right hon. gentleman for having given him an opportunity of fairly meeting his arguments on the merits of the Report. Since that Report had been made, the right hon. gentleman had taken every occasion to deliver observations on the statements contained in it, Similar to those which he had just addressed to the House. He (sir Henry) now stood forward, boldly and fearlessly, to defend that Report, and to contend, that all the facts and statements which it comprised, with only one exception, were perfectly correct. He was sorry that right hon. gentleman had not been a member of the committee which drew up that Report. If he had been so, he was
716vice versa.715714713712d.d.s.s.1188From 1803 to 1812
1188From 1803 to 1812865From 1794 to 1803
865From 1794 to 1803744From 1764 to 1794
744From 1764 to 1794333the Act of Charles 2.
333the Act of Charles 2.d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, under
d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, underAverage Prices.
Average Prices.
1188From 1803 to 1812
1188From 1803 to 1812865From 1794 to 1803
865From 1794 to 1803744From 1764 to 1794
744From 1764 to 1794333the Act of Charles 2.
333the Act of Charles 2.d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, under
d.d.s.s.For 68 years, prior to 1764, underAverage Prices.
Average Prices.711710s.s.s.s.s.s.s.;s.709s.s.,s.;s.708Sir Henry Parnell
 replied, that any gentleman who read the resolutions, must see that the alterations proposed in them were of such a nature as to be comprehended with ease. He hoped also he might be allowed to observe, that it was by no means a new subject to the House. Notices had been given on the subject at each adjournment of the House for recess. He denied that there was any thing in the proposed regulations which would at all fix the price at which the people of England were to eat their bread.Sir H. Parnell
 then moved, that the first Resolution, viz. "That it is expedient that the exportation of corn, grain, meal, malt and flour, from any part of the United Kingdom, should be permitted at all times, without the payment of any duty, and without receiving any bounty whatever," be referred to a committee of the whole House. The question having been put,Sir H. Parnell
 moved that the adjourned debate on the Corn Laws should now be resumed.Sir H. Parnell
 alluded to a petition which he had presented to the House on the subject: he described the unanimity with which it had been adopted, and said he had no doubt it had already produced beneficial effects by reducing the price of grain. He should oppose the Resolutions when proposed, and probably for the same reasons as would induce the hon. baronet to support them—for the benefit of the country, and the landed interest in particular. Corn was the regulator of the price of all other articles of trade and commerce: if the price of corn was raised, the price of labour would be raised also, and then the advance in the price of our manufactures mast ensue: this might have the effect of driving them from those markets where they had hitherto been unrivalled. This would destroy a means of national wealth; and if it should induce any of our manufacturers to emigrate to other countries, the number of consumers would be diminished, and the landed interest would essentially, suffer.Sir Matthew Ridley
722 adverted to a petition on the subject which he had presented. All his constituents, as well agricultural as others, agreed, that some, alteration he the corn laws was necessary. And this opinion he believed was not confined to Ireland, for whose sake alone the House was not called on to act; that which was bad effect to that kingdom was advantage-
722Sir N. C. Colthurst
, as the proposition of the right hon. gentleman seemed to meet with the concurrence of the House, did not intend entering into the general merits of the question. He however wished to notice what had fallen from an hon. gentleman (Mr. F. Lewis.) He thought nothing could be more likely to produce the most mischievous effects than any representation of the members of that House which made them appear to have interests of their own to attend to, separate from those of the people, They ought to guard against appearing conscious that such a suspicion was in any way merited. Any man, who suffered his conduct, as a legislator, to be at all influenced by an apprehension that such a view would be taken of his conduct, was, in his opinion, unfit to sit in that House.Sir J. Newport
734733 said the question was, first, whether any Act ought to be passed to carry the 22d of the King into execution; and then, whether the present Bill was a proper measure for that purpose. For his part, he contended that it was not. They were now legislating on a leave of absence, the nature of which was unknown to them. He had moved for a return of the leaves of absence; but the government offices knew nothing concerning them. And yet they were called upon to state in this Bill, that the provisions of it should not apply to any leaves of absence granted before the passing of the Act. They were professing to carry the 22d of the King into execution, which said, that patentees should reside where their offices were—and yet they were declaring that the present Bill should not apply to leaves of
734733Mr. Crecvey
729 called the attention of the House to the claims of this officer for his valuable discovery of the means of saving, shipwrecked mariners. In a former committee a variety of strong instances were detailed, in which his intention had proved serviceable; and since that a Report of naval officers had been given, all of whom concurred in expressing their approbation of it. He trusted, therefore, that the House would feel every disposition to concur with him in proposing a further reward to captain Manby. It would be rewarding an invention which not only saved the lives of British seamen, but the lives of seamen all over the world; for it had now become so simple and so easy, that it only required to be known in order to be generally adopted. Captain Manby had invented three mortars of different sizes; the largest would carry a ball, with a rope attached to it, a quarter of a mile; the second would carry it 300 yards; and the smallest, 100 yards. It was true, indeed, that wrecks did not always take place so near the coast as a quarter of a mile; but when it was considered how large a proportion of them happened much within that distance, the practical utility of the scheme would be equally obvious. The largest of the mortars might be carried by two men, in a hand-barrow; the second more easily; and the third might be transported on a man's 729Mr. Rose
 did not wish to oppose captain Manby's claims; but, from a sense of justice, felt it necessary to mention another individual, Mr. Mallison, who had devised a plan by which many lives had been saved. He understood that all that gentleman's experiments had answered, but he (Mr. Mallison) had only received 100 guineas for his invention. He should hope, when this subject went to a committee, his case would be taken into consideration.Sir F. Burdett
730 admitted Mr. Bell to have great merit. He had been a serjeant in the artillery, and he believed had been made an officer for his invention. He however begged to read the report of the committee on it. In this it was stated,
730Mr. Rose
 wished to know what methods were taking to bring the inventions into general use. He thought it ought to be taken up by government.Mr. Wynn
l. said, this might be made the subject of future inquiry. The expence that would attend introducing it at the different stations would not exceed 12,000l.Mr. Rose
735 fully agreed in all that had been said on the inefficiency and inexpediency
735Mr. Browne
 said, the measure of abolition of the offices in the Bill would be as open after the passing it, as at present. If there was no other remedy but the substitution of a deputy to the principal, the remedy might at any future time be still recurred to. The question now was, would they render the existing law more efficient than it was at present? The effect of the Bill would be, to promote the residence of a more respectable white population in the West Indies than there was at present. Were the salaries, he would ask, more than was necessary to persons discharging the duties of their office, without deputy, in so unhealthy a climate? In his opinion, the salary ought not only to enable them to live while there comfortably, but also to save such a sum as might make the remainder of their lives comfortable in this country.Mr. Bathurst
732l. said, the radical fault he found with the Bill was, that its framers had reared it on a very bad model, viz. the Act passed in 1782; and a Bill so framed could do no otherwise than fail in its effect. The framers of the present Bill, however, fancied they had discovered, the cause why the Act of 1782 had not been, operative in removing the abuses complained of; viz. the mode in which leave of absence was granted to the governors and lieutenant-governors; and to remedy this evil they proposed, that notification of such leave should be sent to the Secretary of State—that was, to the identical office from which most of the appointments in question emanated. Offences against the Act were to be visited by a paltry penalty of 100732l.Mr. Bankes
 moved the third reading of the Colonial Offices Bill.Mr. Goulburn
736 would first reply to the questions of the hon. member who spoke last. It gave him pleasure to have such an opportunity of stating to the House the cause of the appointment of the person alluded to; and also to correct a strange mistake into which some hon. members had fallen, he would not say had willingly fallen, respecting an office which had formerly been held by that person. The noble lord at the head of the colonial department had appointed Mr. Le Marchant to the office in Antigua, in consequence of the following representation on his behalf: that he was a man with a large family; that he was brother to the brave general Le Marchant, who fell at the battle of Salamanca; and that he had lost his whole means of subsistence by the death of his brother, general Le Marchant. On these grounds alone the noble lord had appointed him to the office in Antigua. When the late correspondence, in which Mr. Le Marchant was implicated, appeared in the public papers, the noble lord who had appointed him intimated to him, that it would be proper that he should not leave the country until the matters in which he was involved should be cleared up. Several years ago Mr. Le Marchant had been paymaster to a public depot, and so far the hon. gentlemen opposite were right; but he had resigned that office. At the time of his resignation, he was found to be considerably in debt to the public; but he had given sufficient security for the amount of the sum for which he stood indebted to the public; and that money was not yet paid, merely on account of a legal formality which would soon be got over. As to the last question of the hon. gentleman, whether Mr. Le Marchant would be continued
736Mr. Goulburn
 thought it unfair that the hon. gentleman should charge him with not being able to give an answer respecting circumstances which happened in 1809.Mr. Goulburn
 observed, that in many colonies there were disputes between the governors and the other officers; and that often the removal of one or other party was the only method to restore peace. The hon. member (Mr. Stephen) was sure that the House would not be inclined to lay down such a rule as must at all times enforce colonial residence. If they were to do so, he was afraid the effect would be that the offices would fall into the vilest hands. The Bill, as far as it went, in his opinion, was a great improvement on the colonial system.Mr. Stephen
 said; he should probably bring this matter before the House at a future period in a more formal shape; and concluded by repeating his warm disapprobation of the Bill then under discussion.Mr. P. Moore
 opposed the Bill as totally unnecessary; considering, as he did, that the Act which was already in existence would answer every purpose which ministers could have in view. On a former night, he had asked some questions respecting Mr. Gore, the governor of Canada, and had been told that that gentleman had not been recalled for misdemeanors. Since that evening he had received some further information respecting this gentleman; and then held in his hand the memorial of a Mr. Jackson, who had been a member of that House, and who was possessed of considerable property in Canada, in which strong complaints were made of the conduct of governor Gore. The hon. gentleman was proceeding to comment upon this memorial, and another on the same subject which he held in his hand, when he was interrupted byMr. P. Moore
 had only done his duty in making that statement which he had been requested to make. The petition to be presented was not from Reut. Bell who was no more; but would be brought forward in behalf of a family which he had left unprovided for.Mr. P. Moore
 had been called out by a gentleman, with whom he had had some conversation, and by whom he had been desired to lay in a claim to this invention in favour of another party. He was informed that a person of the name of Bell was the original inventor of that for which it was proposed to reward captain Manby. This invention he had made known so long ago as the year 1791. The gentleman who had spoken with him authorised him to say that captain Manby's invention was a species of piracy from that of the person he had mentioned. He hoped, that when a petition should be presented from the party setting up this claim, it would be referred to the committee appointed to consider the case of captain Manby.Mr. P. Moore
731 concurred with the hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett) in thinking the case of Mr. Mallison ought to go before the committee. A committee of that House had decided, that his invention had great merit, and ought to be adopted. Why it had not been adopted, it remained for the Admiralty to say. Mr. Mallison's plan would not supersede captain Manby's. They were distinct from each other; and if both were at once brought into use, so much the better. Captain Manby, by his exertions, had saved the lives of many. He had sacrificed his fortune, and by his assiduity endangered his life; so that if something were not done immediately, they might shortly have (he, however, hoped it would not be so), as in the case of Mr. Bell, a petition not from him, but from his successors. He hoped, however, he would recover from his present indisposition, and live to reap the reward of what
731Mr. Whitbread
 said he had expected no answer.Mr. Whitbread
737 thought that the hon. gentleman had come well out as to the affair of Mr. Le Marchant's appointment, when, with many words as to the delicacy of the subject, he had said, that nothing was determined as to whether that person should be continued in his office. For his own part, he begged to submit to the House, that the result of any legal proceedings relative to the affair in which Mr. Le Marchant was concerned, could make no difference as to the share which he had in the business; The case of Mr. Le Marchant was simply, that he engaged to do or not to do something in a certain case, provided his conditions were agreed to, or in compensation for certain civilities. Now, the acquittal or conviction of the other persons did not in the least affect Mr. Le Marchant's case. With regard to the office formerly held by Mr. Le Marchant, it would be found, that he had not resigned it, but had been suspended. To prove that he was correct when he said this in opposition to the assertion of the hon. gentleman, he would refer that hon. gentleman to a letter on the subject, to which access might be had at the Secretary of State's office. As he had been the first who had alluded to the case of Mr. Gore, he would say a few words on that head; He saw no reason why his hon. friend (Mr. P. Moore) should have been prevented from proceeding with the case, particularly as the public attention had been awakened to it, and as his hon. friend had only intended to state facts. Many persons had been suspended from their offices in Upper Canada by Mr. Gore, under grave charges of misconduct. When these persons came home, they acquitted themselves completely from the charges which Mr. Gore had brought against them. In one instance, one of
737Mr. Whitbread
, who spoke to order, and suggested the impropriety of introducing subjects to the attention of the House foreign to the question before it.Mr. W. Dundas
 spoke in very high terms of captain Mansby's invention, which had already saved many lives. In such cases there were commonly several persons who claimed to be the inventors of that which met with the approbation of parliament. In Dr. Jenner's case this was seen. Vaccination was asserted to have been known in foreign countries long before; but he thought it become them to reward him who brought the invention into use, whether he was the original inventor or not.Mr. Wilberforce
742 rose to call the attention of the House to the duration by law of several of these duties; viz. six months after the termination of the war. The House would be aware of the inconvenience that might attend the cessation of these duties at an open period of the year, when, parliament not sitting, no modified continuation of any of them could take place, if necessary. It was his
742The Chancellor of the Exchequer
743 expressed his surprise, that the comprehensive mind of the hon. author of the Bill should not be aware, that, if agreed to, it must occasion a material change in the constitution of parliament, by excluding in a great measure non-resident voters from an election, and leaving it entirely in the hands of those who were local and resident. The whole measure rested on an unfounded assumption; namely, that non-resident voters, who received from a candidate the expence of their journey, and compensation for their loss of time, must necessarily be corrupt. Nothing could be more unfounded;
743Mr. Martin
d.s.s. wished to ask the hon. gent lent an who spoke last, if he thought a committee ought to enter into the case of every individual voter, in order to ascertain what might be considered a fair allowance for his time and travelling expences? In this city some artificers made 20d.s.s.Mr. Rose
744 said, the principle of the Bill evidently was, to prevent the charging of any expence to voters. If one candidate be allowed to be at any expence, it becomes necessary for others to be at the same. The candidates make use of this mean to conciliate the good opinions of their constituents. The hon. gentleman read the preamble of the Act of William 3, to prove that its object was to cause elections to be made without charge or expence. He could not agree with those gentlemen who thought that this Bill would be a disfranchising law. Corruption was before an indictable offence at common law; but if it were established that voters ought to be paid their expences,
744Mr. Wynn
 replied, that it was not his intention to agitate that subject in the present session. There would be abundant time in the next session for parliament to determine whether any, or what part of that tax should continue to be exacted.—He added, that it was a question which must depend on circumstances that it was impossible to foresee; for instance, the progress or result of the war with America.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
745 thought the effect of this Bill would not correspond with its intention. It was impossible to put a stop to the practice which this Bill professed to prevent; for the out-voters would continue
745Mr. Rochfort
, though happy to agree to any suggestion offered with so much candour, could not avail himself of that of the hon. gentleman, because he thought it militated against the principle of the Bill. The proposal of the hon. gentleman would be an innovation on the law as it now stood; and to prove this, he referred to it. Indeed the effect of the proposal would be, to legalise the claims of the non-resident electors to remuneration for their travelling expences, and to establish corruption of the grossest kind. The Bill was one declaratory in substance, but in form an enactment.Mr. Douglas
 objected to this allowance, as legalizing what was at present contrary to law. Instead of diminishing the expences of election, it would add to them, as it would entitle every person to make a specific demand to have his expences defrayed.Mr. Douglas
 considered the Amendment for allowing a shilling a mile travelling expences to voters as extremely reprehensible, and as, in fact, tolerating that very system of corruption which it was meant to correct.—With respect to the application of the provision of the Bill to counties, although he did not approve of such an extension, yet rather than the Bill should not pass, he would agree to that suggestion.Mr. Wynn
 opposed the Bill, and thought it was introduced at the worst possible time.Alderman C. Smith
 thought, that if the Bill passed in its present form, its effect would be, totally to destroy the foundation on which it stood; namely, the Act of King William. He felt inclined to support the amendment for the insertion of the word "county."Mr. Bathurst
 defended the Amendment he had supported.Mr. Bathurst
 agreed to the extension of the Bill to counties, but disapproved of the proposed allowance of expences.Mr. Protheroe
747s.l. recollected, that some years ago he himself had introduced a Bill something like the present, in which he had proposed to include counties; and then he was asked, if his meaning was to disfranchise every body? In order to do away this objection, he had then agreed to the omission of the word counties, in hopes that he might have reconciled gentlemen to the measure; and he should agree still to omit the word, if the omission could have this effect. He was sorry the hon. member (Mr. Lushington) had not gone the length of proposing the repeal of the Act of King William. He wished the hon. gentleman would also go the length of proposing the repeal of the Act requiring a landed qualification of 300747s.l.Mr. Tierney
748 contended, that the provisions of the Bill did not go to alter
748Mr. H. Thornton
 felt it his duty to repeat his objection to the principle of this Bill; but being in a committee, he should give his vote for the introduction of the word "county" in it.Mr. Wrottesley
 was against the Bill; being of opinion, that it went to fix a stigma upon electors, without any call for it.Mr. Calcraft
 thought his hon. friend (Mr. Douglas) had got his Bill into such a situation, that he could not see how he was to get it on. His hon. friend seemed to have compromised the principles of his Bill for support to it; thus, for conciliating the county members, he had left out the word "county."Mr. Calcraft
 would not object to the motion; but declared, that unless the Bill should come from the committee in a form very different from that which it then bore—unless it was made a measure of regulation, not of disfranchisement, he should feel it to be his duty to oppose it either on the report, or on the third reading.Mr. Calcraft
 observed, that the right hon. gentleman had said nothing of the Income Tax. Was it to be inferred that that tax was unequivocally to expire on the 5th of April next?Mr. Whitbread
, as he had on a former occasion said, still thought that the Bill might be very much improved; both as it affected the interest of the electors and of the candidates. The omission of the word "county" in the Bill he thought quite unintelligible. If the Bill passed as it then stood, it would be most injurious to the elective rights of persons who might be in the army; in fact, to the soldier it would be virtually a disfranchisement. It would be infinitely better to allow a certain proportion of the travelling expences of electors to be paid. He therefore proposed to allow to non-resident electors a sum not exceeding a shilling per mile for travelling expences, the distance being computed between the place of residence and the place of election.Mr. Lushington
s., thought if a certain degree of expence was not allowed to the out-voters, the Bill would give rise to more fraud than existed under the present law. If they were to give every out voter 1s.,Mr. Lushington
 said, if the Bill was declaratory in substance, he wished to know how it happened that the word "county" was omitted? He then moved that the word "county" should be inserted in the Bill.Mr. Lushington
 said, the principle upon which he would vote for the committee was, that the law was now unsettled as to the legality of paying any expence to nonresident voters. In his mind the object of the Bill was, to disfranchise a great number of voters. If such was the intention, it ought to be done fairly and manfully, not in such an indirect way. He would, however, vote for the committee, for the purpose of removing the doubts that existed as to the law, because committees of that House allowed the legality of paying expences, while the courts of law denied it.Mr. Serj. Best
 said, if the Amendments which had been proposed were carried, he should oppose the further progress of the Bill.Sir Charles Monck
 would vote against the Bill, as quite unnecessary.Sir F. Flood
 objected to the Amendments, as tending to increase the difficulties which the Bill had to encounter, to multiply its opponents, and to endanger its success. The principal objections that came from a friendly quarter, he thought might be obviated, by making an alteration in the preamble of the Bill, and by adding a proviso that should do away all doubts as to the construction of the Treating Act. When the enacting clause had passed, he proposed to offer these additions as amendments.Sir J. Mackintosh
 spoke in favour of the Bill.Sir J. Newport
 would vote for the committee, on a principle directly contrary to that of the learned gentleman (serjeant Best). His opinion was, that it would disfranchise a number of voters. He (sir J. Newport) thought that such voters as had their expences paid, did not come fairly and freely to do their duty. What opinion would be formed of a man, who, having his expences paid by one candidate, should change his mind, and vote for another? He would be considered as having acted unfairly; and this shewed, that when his expences were paid, his choice was not free. It was desirable, that if non-residents wished to exercise their franchise, they should have more difficulty in doing it than at present. Every person saw, on the eve of an election, the papers filled with advertisements inviting non-resident voters to taverns, where they spent their time in drunkenness and idleness, to the great injury of their employers. In those which were called open boroughs, the corruption was greater than in others, as the records of the committees of that House would shew. He would therefore vote for the committee.Sir John Newport
 prefaced his motion for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the 43d of the King, cap. 84, relative to the non-residence of the clergy, with a variety of observations, tending to show the insufficiency of the law as it now stood. He particularly dwelt on the impropriety of leaving the enforcement of the law in question to common informers; a singularity from which the regulations of other professions were exempt. In modelling his new Bill, therefore, he should be careful to reject informers altogether; to whose avarice, under all the circumstances of the case, taking into consideration the inexperience and unacquaintance with the law, of many of the clergy, he did not think it would be proper longer to leave them. The Bill would be in a great measure explanatory, removing certain doubts which existed with respect to the present law; for instance, it would remove the doubt which had been started as to the non-liability of clergymen holding pluralities, but residing on one of their benefices. It was evident, that the law could not contemplate a physical impossibility, and this the Bill which he meant to introduce would distinctly establish. It would also dispel the apprehensions which had arisen from the supposition that the penalties might be levied indefinitely with respect to time.Sir W. Scott
 spoke against the Bill. He admitted that great abuses had prevailed, and that the commissioners had improperly appointed Mr. Henley to be clerk and treasurer; but he contended, that the commissioners were competent to correct these abuses.Mr. Byng
 acquainted the House, that he had a Message from his royal highness the Prince Regent to this House, signed by his Royal Highness; and he presented the same to the House; and it was read by Mr. Speaker, as follows:809The
809
 then acquainted the House, that he had another Message from his royal highness the Prince Regent to this House, signed by his Royal Highness; and he presented the same to the House; and it was read by Mr. Speaker, as follows:The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that from the inconvenience that was felt in the northern parts of the island, from the difference of weights and measures, they wished for a more uniform system. By the 17th Article of the Union, it was agreed, that the weights and measures should be the same in England and Scotland; but the uncertainty of the standard in England rendered it impossible to carry that article into effect. He would therefore move, "That a committee be appointed to enquire into the original standards of Weights and Measures in this kingdom, and to consider the laws relating thereto; and to report their observations thereupon, together with their opinion of the most effectual means for ascertaining and enforcing uniform and certain standards of Weights and Measures to be used for the future."Sir George Clerke
 highly approved of the hon. baronet's object; and hoped he would be more successful in the attainment of it than his predecessors in the same effort. The regulations at present existing were extremely inadequate, even as they related to fraudulent weights and measures; the magistrates being merely empowered to seize them; and in the very act of doing so, they not unfrequently rendered themselves liable to the operation of other laws.Mr. Whitbread
l.l.l.812, in reply, stated, that the Bill was a child of the member for Middlesex, but that he had deserted his offspring. He (Mr. Whitbread) had taken
l.l.l.812Mr. Whitbread
 having presented a Petition from the inhabitants of St. James, Clerkenwell, contributing to the sewers rates, in favour of the Bill, which was ordered to lie on the table, moved the second reading, which was opposed by Mr. Mellish.Mr. Whitbread
 said, at present there were only two copies allowed to Ireland; and he was not aware that the number would be abridged.—Leave given.Mr. D. Giddy
 warmly supported the motion; contending that nothing could be productive of more general benefit than the establishment of the regulations wished for by the hon. baronet.Mr. D. Giddy
811 said, that the subject of copy-rights had been considered in a committee, both as it respected the claims of universities and the rights of authors. Universities had long claimed and exercised a right of receiving copies of all works. With respect to authors, it was for a long time thought
811Mr. D. Giddy
 wished to know if the Bill was to extend to Ireland. He hoped the same number of books would be continued to the universities in that country as heretofore.Sir F. Flood
823822 said, that daring the short time that he had had the honour to hold a situation in the office of the home department, that office was the regular channel for the transmission of all Orders of the House of Commons relative to the internal administration of the country. He also recollected a particular instance that had subsequently occurred, in which the home department had circulated an Order of the House not founded on an address. He had simply moved for a return to be made by the clerks of the peace of the different counties of England, of the number of pauper and criminal lunatics in the jails of their respective counties. This Order was served at the home secretary's office—from that office it was transmitted to the clerks of the peace—the returns were made to the office—and by the office sent to the House of Commons. This was really not a light matter. It involved in its decision the due discharge of all the functions of that House.823822Mr. Wynn
 had the satisfaction to inform the hon. baronet, that whatever mistake might have taken place on the subject, no practical inconvenience was likely to result, as the Order was in the course of execution in the various courts.The Attorney General
 said, that the authority of the House to enforce a return to its Orders was not liable to contradiction or doubt; and, presuming that the present difficulty arose out of misconception, he thought it would be better to defer any further agitation of the subject for two or three days; persuaded as be was that the executive government would feel that it was incumbent on them to aid by all the means in their power, the execution of the. Orders of parliament The only effect of their not doing so, would be to increase the expence to the public; for as the Orders must ultimately be executed, the House would have to take the execution into their own hands, and to employ for that purpose an additional number of servants.Mr. Ponsonby
, to prove that the Order to which he had adverted in the course of his former observation, was not founded on an address (as intimated by Mr. H. Addington), requested the Clerk to read the entry in the Journals; which the Clerk accordingly did; when it appeared to be a simple motion.Mr. Wynn
 replied; bait so, inaudibly, thatThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he had already stated, that the Treaty had been ratified.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 desired to know, whether there had been any alteration in the Treaty previous to its ratification?Mr. Wynn
 replied, that there had been no alteration in any of the articles on which the expected do bate of that evening was likely to turn. The only alteration respected the retrocession of the Danish colonies.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his disappointment that the papers which related to the order for the blockade of the coast of Norway had not been laid on the table of the House.Mr. Wynn
 had no doubt that the delay was accidental. It was certainly not regular to go to a debate on a subject, the documents respecting which were not actually before the House; nevertheless, as their nature was well known, it might be more for the convenience of the House were he to proceed with his promised motion. He had, however, no objection to postpone, it until the papers should be presented and printed, if such was the wish of the House.Mr. Wynn
 was of opinion, that the hon. member had better proceed with his motion that evening. He would, however, have no objection, perhaps, to allow precedence to the consideration of the Prince Regent's Messages, respecting the duke of Wellington and lords Lynedock, Hill, and Beresford.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that it would be impossible for a moment to think of interposing any subject before that alluded to by the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Wynn
 moved, that the House should form itself into a committee, for the purpose of taking into consideration the Message of his royal highness the Prince Regent, relative to the grant to the duke of Wellington.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.829l.l.l.l.828l.l.,l.l.827826 said, in rising to call the attention of the House to the distinguished services of the duke of Wellington, which had been attended with such glorious and beneficial results to this country and Europe at large, it would be unnecessary for him to eater into any detail of what was already so well known to
l.l.l.829l.l.l.l.828l.l.,l.l.827826The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.;l.831l. said, though it was unusual for those sitting on his side to interfere in cases like the present, he could not but think the grant too small. The Prince Regent had raised the great commander to the highest rank in this country; and was any gentleman in that House prepared to say, that 18 or 19,000l.l.;l.831l.Mr. Ponsonby
 was inclined to give the largest sum which had been mentioned. At the same time, he thought it but fair to say, that government, in coming down with a proposition of this nature, most keep in view other consideration, by which the generosity of individual gentleman was not restrained. He should wish, therefore, any proposal of increase to come from that quarter, rather than from any other. If his right hon. friend was not prepared to come forward with any augmentation, or to give at once a negative answer, he thought it would be better for him to take time for the consideration of the matter. He agreed with an hon. gentleman, that what was to be done ought to be finally done now. The duke of Wellington ought not to be subjected to the remotest suspicion of shaping his conduct with the view of either conciliating the favour of government, or flattering the popular feeling. Every thing should be done, before his presence amongst us should run away with our judgments: on a sober estimate of those services that live on record, the remuneration of them ought to be awarded. Neither did he wish to see that grèat man hesitating whether the investment of the grant in funds or land would be most advantageous for him. Every thing mechanical ought to be taken off his shoulders.Mr. Canning
l.l.l. did not conceive 50,000l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
nem. con.l. immediately rose, and, without comment, proposed a Resolution for granting to his lordship the annual sum of 2,000nem. con.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. observed, that he was perfectly satisfied the sum proposed by the right hon. gentleman was justified by precedent; but he would ask whether 2,000l.l.Mr. C. W. Wynn
l. considered, that if the standard of independence which had been laid down by the hon. gentleman was that only at which independence could be maintained, the parliament would indeed be reduced to the greatest danger. He apprehended, many members of that House were capable of maintaining both their independence and their dignity with a much less sum than 2,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that the expediency of such an amendment as this, would apply, to many noble families who had already, received annuities upon the terms now proposed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that lord Lynedock had an independent fortune; this was not the case with lord Hill. It might, however, be better, as suggested by the right hon. gentleman, to agree to the votes as they were now worded; and to re-consider, at future period, whether it would be proper, to extend them, either as to sum or period.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 had no objection to this suggestion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
842841840bona fide839838837836835 rose, according to the notice on this subject, and said, that he had willingly waved the precedence which his motion was entitled to, in favour of the propositions in honour of those who had gallantly and successfully contended in the defence of their country. Though, his motion was on a subject similar to those which had preceded it, he would willingly have abstained from it, if any assurance, or even hope, were given that it would not be attempted to subjugate the brave people of Norway to a rival and hostile nation. But when he saw, on the part of the king of Denmark, a declaration that he should throw no obstacles in the way of the cession of Norway to Sweden, and when he (Mr. W.) found that the commissioners from the allied powers, who were to proceed to Copenhagen and to Norway, were gone, not to negociate, but to attempt to conciliate the people of Norway to the projects which had been formed for their subjugation, and when these proceedings were accompanied by acts of hostility, he could no longer abstain from appealing to the justice and feelings of the House. But if, even at the present moment, an assurance were given, that the blockade of the kingdom of Norway should be suspended during the negociation of the commissioners, he would be content to withdraw his motion.
842841840bona fide839838837836835Mr. C. W. Wynn
853otiosa questio.852851 said, that in the view which his hon. and learned friend professed to take of this subject, he was glad to perceive that he delivered opinions to which he had no hesitation in agreeing. He was glad also, because it gave him an opportunity of congratulating the House on so splendid an acquisition, the value of which he well knew before, but had not the pleasure of witnessing until that night. His opinions were by no means in conflict with the hon. knt.'s as to the Treaty itself. If the question now was, whether consent should be given to the Treaty? he had no hesitation in saying that he would refuse it. When that was the question upon a former occasion, he endeavoured to persuade the House not to sanction the engagement. But, strong as his opinion was against it, he yet felt that when the engagement was once entered into, he considered himself as bound by it; and the question now was, whether, the Treaty being once sanctioned, parliament was bound to adhere to it according to the proper construction of the Treaty? It was unfortunate, that their good faith and their feelings should be placed in opposition; but in such a case good faith was to be observed even in opposition to feeling. In the latter part of his speech his hon. and learned friend endeavoured to seize on the feelings of the House. He drew a glowing picture of the miseries that must arise from a blockade, which, in other words, he said, was a famine. He was too good an historian, however, not to know that any term may be easily spread out in this manner. It would be easy to lead his audience to an hospital, to represent the weeping mother and the bleeding child; but representations of this kind would apply to legitimate as well as to illegitimate horror. He commenced his examination of this subject, as some of his friends well knew, with the hope that the construction of the Treaty did not bind to the blockade of Norway; but, after diligent examination, the conclusion on his mind
853otiosa questio.852851Mr. Canning
 contended, that this country was bound, in compliance with the stipulations in her Treaty with Sweden, to put the Crown Prince in possession of Norway. He remarked, that the Crown Prince had fulfilled all the terms which had been proposed to him by Denmark for this cession—he abandoned the fortresses which he had taken, advanced a considerable sum of money, and, in fact, had neglected no one of those acts which were necessary to entitle him to the fulfilment of the contract on the part of the king of Denmark. Not so with the king of Denmark; he had not acted with that good faith, which it was just he should have done; and hence arose the necessity, as well as the duty of this country, to take care that her ally received that recompence for her sacrifices which she had a right to expect. The right hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Canning) had put the subject on the proper ground; and acquiescing as he did in the arguments that right hon. gentleman had adduced, he did not think it necessary longer to occupy the attention of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
862861860859 said, the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had said, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning) had put this question upon its proper ground—that was to say, we had entered into a Treaty to secure the possession of Norway to Sweden, and to employ our naval force in the attainment of that object. This was the first time that he had heard any nation could bind itself to an act of
862861860859Mr. Ponsonby
158—Majority
158—Majority229Against it
229Against it71For the Address
71For the Address
158—Majority
158—Majority229Against it
229Against it71For the Address
71For the Address now rose, amid loud cries of Question! and having shortly replied to the arguments which had been urged against him, a division took place—when the numbers were:
158—Majority
158—Majority229Against it
229Against it71For the Address
71For the Address
158—Majority
158—Majority229Against it
229Against it71For the Address
71For the AddressMr. C. W. Wynn
 remarked, that there war no doubt that papers in the actual custody of the Secretary of State for the home department could be obtained only by address. Perhaps, after what had passed, the best way would be to let the matter rest.The Speaker
 said, the hon. gentleman had certainly attributed to his Majesty's ministers a refinement of corruption which was perfectly novel—for he not only gave them credit for desiring to preserve its influence at present, but for three generations to come.Mr. B. Bathurst
863 spoke in favour of the
863Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that the Order was a general one; and it did not follow, therefore, that it should be directed to one office more than to another. If the proceeding had been by an address to the crown, there would have been no difficulty.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that the hon baronet should be aware, that the Secretary of State could act only by his Majesty's command. The papers procured by that office were procured in consequence of the royal pleasure; and, however anxious that department, no doubt, was to facilitate the public service, he questioned whether it could, with propriety, proceed to the execution of an Order of the House of Commons.Mr. Goulburn
 apologised for the circumstance; which he stated had arises out of a mistake.Mr. Goulburn
845844 said, that if, as was argued on the other side, the conduct of Great Britain, in enforcing the cession of Sweden, was contrary to the immutable laws of justice, he certainly should be one of the first to accede to the motion. The agreeing to a treaty which proceeded on so bad a principle must, in his view of the subject, militate against the interests of the country—for no country could ever find its interests supported by a violation of the laws of God—or, what was the same thing, by opposing those doctrines on which the law of nations was founded. Such an opposition was, as it were, throwing down the gauntlet to Almighty Providence, which would not fail, at one time or other, to take it up. But this country did not stand in such a situation. The Treaty recognized no such principles; and this country, he contended, was called on to fulfil it. It was the imperative duty of Great Britain, even if she were obliged to use force, to see that Norway was, in the most extensive sense of the word, ceded to Sweden, unless the latter power absolved her from the condition. He was sorry to observe, that the hon. mover put a very limited construction on the terms of the Treaty. According to his interpretation, Sweden had a right to rest satisfied with the cession of Norway by Denmark, even though that cession were successfully resisted by the Norwegian people—and, this country, he argued, was freed
845844Mr. Stephen
 repeated what he had said, of the sole duty of the home department being to execute those Orders of the House which were founded on address, and expressed his suspicion that the Order adverted to by an hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn) was of that description.Mr. H. Addington
821 replied, than having heard of the circumstance only that morning he was not prepared fully to satisfy the hon. baronet. He did understand, however, on the best authority, that it did not properly belong to the office of the
821Mr. H. Addington
843, in seconding the motion, said, he was one of those, who, venerating the great principles which their ancestors had bled in maintaining, could not look on calmly, and behold a magnanimous people offered up on the altar of diplomatic convenience. It had been strenuously contended, that we were bound by the stipulations of our treaty. But this argument could not be supported, unless it was clearly shewn, that Sweden had completely fulfilled the conditions into which she had entered. Now, where was the Prince Royal of Sweden to be found when the late events were passing on the continent? Was he in Germany, at the head of his army? Certainly not. Having left off his former minor system of plunder, he was to be found in another quarter, enslaving a people, and pillaging a nation. Did those gentlemen, who had so often panegyrised the invincible spirit which the people of Spain and Portugal had displayed, hope that so virtuous a feeling would not be imitated by the inhabitants of other countries? He, on the contrary, anxiously desired, that so noble a spirit should extend through every part of Europe—and, he trusted, that, in the case of Norway, as in that of Spain and Portugal, the spirit of national independence would triumph over every difficulty. Much as he disliked the Treaty itself, by which the cession of Norway was recognized—still more did he dislike the time when it was entered into. At a time when the horrors of war were almost at an end—when the Allied Powers had recognised the right of the French people to form their own constitution—at that moment, which ought to be most auspi-
843Mr. Lambton
 said, this would make the gift worthy of both giver and receiver.Mr. Whitbread
830l.l.l.Præsenti tibi maturos largimur honores. said, that he had but one objection to the motion. As to the achievements of the great man whom they were now called upon to reward, they might well say that they spoke for themselves. It was not unbecoming, however, to observe, that lord Wellington had fallen on times in which the spirit of detraction had not dared to attack him; and in this respect he was not like the duke of Marlborough; for there was no man so wicked, so stupid, or so envious, as to venture to detract from the glory of the duke of Wellington. It has often been said, that the merit of great men was seldom allowed in their own day; and that they must trust to posterity for that fame which their contemporaries denied them; but to the distinguished individual of whom he was speaking, they might well say:—
830l.l.l.Præsenti tibi maturos largimur honores.Mr. Whitbread
 wished to ask the right hon. gentleman opposite, whether a paragraph which had appeared in some of the public prints, respecting the ratification and exchange, about the 19th of April, of the Treaty with the Danish government, was authentic?Mr. Whitbread
 apologized; observing, that he had not understood the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Whitbread
 proceeded to follow his first question by another. Had there been any demur in the ratification?Mr. Whitbread
858857856855854 said, from the anxious feeling expressed by the right hon. gentleman that Great Britain should be freed from the odious obligation she had contracted—from the vehemence with which he declared, that there was no price which he would not willingly pay to get rid of the condition imposed upon her—it did appear to him, that he would have proposed a motion precisely similar to that before the House. Now, what price did those who supported that motion call upon the crown to pay, in order to relieve the country from so unpleasant a situation? They only requested that good offices might be resorted to—they only demanded that the Norwegians should be rescued from the horrible alternative of a yoke they detested—or the less horrible choice of famine!.—He said, the less horrible choice, because, sooner than submit to Sweden, he was convinced they would perish. He was always extremely happy
858857856855854Mr. Whitbread
 was compelled, from a sense of duty, to resist the motion, on the ground stated by his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning). He gave ministers credit for their good intentions; yet he could not admit that the proceeding towards Norway was just or liberal. On those principles which he had ever observed, and on which he had formerly deprecated the Slave Trade, he considered the partitioning of states against their will a most despotic sacrifice of public rights. He hoped his Majesty's ministers, who did not appear to be the projectors of this cession, would do all they could to avert the calamities of the Norwegians. There was no sacrifice that he would not make, to prevent an act of such flagrant injustice.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, the right hon. gentleman had given no explanation as to the extension of the annuity beyond the grandson of lord Hill. Unless some satisfactory answer were given on this point, he should move an amendment to extend the annuity to all persons to whom the title should descend hereafter.Sir Charles Monck
l. would be glad to hear it explained, why the provision made for a duke should be of a more lasting nature than that made for a baron? Was not a baron equally called upon to support his independence? and ought he not to be as independent as a duke, of the parliament and the crown? If this was admitted, he would ask, how it was that the proposed provision for lord Hill was only to extend to himself, and his two succeeding hens? He considered that 2,000l.Sir Charles Monck
 was only desirous of Knowing, whether there was any disposition on the part of his Majesty's ministers to accede to the amendment which he had suggested? If there was, he was satisfied.Sir Charles Monck
834 considered, that in the proposition for confining the annuity to the two succeeding heirs to the title, his Majesty's ministers had it in contemplation, by rendering it necessary for the future baron to apply to the public purse
834Sir Charles Monck
 said, the House was not bound to adhere to bad precedents.Sir Charles Monck
850849848847846 said, he did not rise to examine the injustice or impolicy of the Treaty entered into between Russia and Sweden in 1812, nor to dispute the solemn, decision of parliament with respect to the partial accession of Great Britain to that, convention; he admitted the
850849848847846Sir James Mackintosh
 expressed his surprise at what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman; having distinetly understood, from two hon. friends of his who had formerly been in the office of the home department, that although the Orders of the House (not founded on an address) were not enforced by that department, they were transmitted through it. Although, therefore, the home department was not answerable for the execution of the Order in question, it was in that case answerable for its transmission. As to what the right hon. gentleman had said of addresses, every one must feel the delay and inconvenience that would results from proceeding by way of address in all cases in which information was required by the House, such as that for which he had had the honour to move six weeks ago. As, however, a doubt had been started upon the subject, it appeared to him to be indispensable that the pleasure of the House should be known as to the mode in which their Orders should be executed.Sir J. Newport
, seeing a right hon. gentle man connected with the home department in his place, wished to ask from him some explanation with respect to the non-execution of an Order made by the House of Commons, above six weeks ago, for certain accounts from the various courts of justice. He understood that the messenger of the House had been referred to the clerk of the crown in the court of King's bench. He wished to know if that was the fact?Sir J. Newport
824 repeated, that always to
824Sir J. Newport
864, although from the first moment he saw the Treaty with Sweden, he felt for it the utmost detestation, yet felt himself bound to say, that its stipulations ought to be carried into effect; and, therefore, reluctantly he must oppose the motion of his hon. friend. Before he sat down, however, he begged he might be permitted to state some information which came within his own personal knowledge, and which might have some weight with his Majesty's ministers. At this time, and the whole of the next month, was the seed-time in Norway. The inhabitants, he believed, had scarcely sufficient to sow the land for a crop; and yet he feared that even this little their necessities would oblige them to devote to their present sustenance, whereby hereafter they would inevitably be reduced to famine. This circumstance, he conceived, ought to induce some relaxation towards these unhappy people. Though we were bound by our Treaty to co-operate with our naval force in attaining the objects of Sweden, we were not bound to carry on the war with the utmost rigour. There were no sinews of war to be crippled, no commerce to be impeded; all that could be done was, to starve not alone the rich but the poor—the soldier and the peasant—the women and the children—the infirm and the aged. These were circumstances which ought not to be forgotten—we should not lose sight of the miseries which were inflicted on the innocent.—He had himself, while a prisoner in Norway, experienced the greatest kindness and liberality; and at a time when this country was making her attack on Copenhagen, when every family in Norway was anxious for the fate of some one of their relatives and friends, and when the post by which that intelligence was to be conveyed was stopped by our cruizers, he, accompanied by others, passed through the streets of Christianstadt, amidst crowds of the enquiring and anxious inhabitants, yet not one of them received the slightest insult. Again, at a period when the king of Denmark had forbidden, under the most severe penalties, all communication with England, or connection with English mercantile houses, he, among others, went to a Norwegian merchant to apply
864Sir Thomas D. Acland
868 rose to state some facts, of which he had been apprised by his constituents. Since the period at which the Admiralty had put an end to the custom of allowing single ships, properly armed, to run to and from the West Indies, it had been expected that convoys would be more frequent; on the contrary, however, their number had greatly diminished. An application had been made for a convoy from the West Indies in February last, at which period there were 150 vessels ready with cargoes, to the value of three millions sterling. They had, however been detained, and the number of vessels was now
868Mr. Canning
 deprecated the introduction of any thing into the Bill, which might give to the Americans information calculated to facilitate their privateering expeditions against our trade.Mr. Rose
, in reply, said, he had no doubt but the Admiralty would make the business as little onerous as possible, and therefore he would not at present further trespass on the time of the House.Mr. Canning
 was of opinion, that if a clause was introduced to empower the Admiralty to issue a public notice of the licences to be given, and the places to which the ships were to go, it would remove many of the complaints which had been enumerated.Mr. Canning
 said, he had no doubt but every accommodation would be given by the Admiralty to the mercantile interests.Mr. Rose
 said, the subject was at present under the consideration of the executive power; but he did not feel that he could at present give any answer.Mr. Peel
l.l.l., expressing his concurrence in this grant, was anxious that it should be laid out in landed property, as the most suitable to the exalted rank of the illustrious officer who was the object of the public gratitude. He hoped, that no part of the sum would be laid out in the erection of a building; but that some domain might be found already fit for the purpose. He inquired what steps had been taken to expend the 90,000l.l.l.Mr. Ward
l. agreed with the hon. gentleman, that the most desirable mode certainly would be to have the grant raid but in landed property. With respect to the last grant, no pains had been spared by the commissioners to find a suitable estate; but such were the difficulties they had met with, that it had been thought the family themselves had better be employed as the agents to find some proper place to be disposed of. He thought it probable, that a mansion might be got without the expence of building. It seemed to be the wish, that the present grant should be final; and therefore there would be an inconvenience in any subsequent arrangement. The hon. gentleman, however, was wrong in the amount of the expence of Blenheim House. He had always understood it cost only 200,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. observed, that,, according to his recollection, the precise sum which Sarah duchess of Marlborough stated to have been expended upon Blenheim, was 470,000l.Mr. Ward
l.l.875 said, it appeared from the memoirs
l.l.875Mr. Rose
 was of opinion, that some of the Resolutions would require further deliberation; and he should wish the subject, so far as related to them, postponed; but so convinced was he of the propriety of the first Resolution, for allowing unrestrained export, that he should be unwilling, to postpone it for a single day. He did not believe there ever was a country in which agriculture flourished without export. It was not probable, that any inconvenience could be ever incurred from allowing a free export; as the great probability was, that the seller would find a higher price in this country than in any other. Other countries differed very materially from this with respect to the consumption of corn. In other countries, when corn was high, there was a much less consumption; but here the price of labour rose generally in proportion to the price of bread; and the poor laws also enabled the poor to consume the same quantity, whatever the price was; as, if they were unable to purchase, the parish was obliged to provide for them. Agriculture, he contended, ought to be encouraged; and the unrestrained privilege of export was one of the most likely means for this purpose. The other Resolutions, which were more doubtful, and required more mature consideration, he would defer till a future day.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his satisfaction at the right hon. gentleman's approbation of the first part of the measure. To the second Resolution he would himself object, as not being sufficiently simple. The Irish he considered as superior to the English system; and therefore Ireland had become a corn country, and was an exporting, when England was an importing country.Mr. Foster
 was perfectly prepared to meet the hon. baronet on the subject of the Report. It was not his intention to object to the Resolution; but he would state, that his opinion was unchanged as to the mischief to which it would lead, if passed in a law. He would not press his individual opinion against the opinion of the House; but when the Bill was brought in he should have an opportunity, on the second reading of it, to take the sense of the House on the measure.Mr. Rose
 was of opinion, that the country should adhere to that system which had been so long followed with advantage. It was a question of the greatest importance, and required the maturest deliberation.Mr. Western
 said, that, though the House ought never to encourage such sentiments as those contained in the petition alluded to by the hon. member for Norwich, yet, when their constituents called upon them to present petitions, it was their duty to do so. But, while they gave those petitions full weight and consideration, they ought not to permit them to bias their independent judgment. If once they allowed them to have such an effect, there was an end to calm and deliberate investigation.Mr. Ellison
d.s. recommended the greatest caution and deliberation in legislating upon this important subject. It was but last year that it was asked, could any person expect to live to see corn so low as 10d.s.Mr. Lascelles
879 observed, that when reference was made to former times, it was to times when the population was not half what it now is. Now,
879The Chancellor of the Exchequer
881 liked liberty; and doing so, he wished to see every man have the liberty of employing his bands and his genius in the best way he could for his own advantage, and for the benefit of the country. This no man was at liberty to do, so long as the present law remained
881Mr. Thompson
 considered this as a subject of extraordinary difficulty. After all that had been said, he could not help thinking that if the Bill were passed into a law, it would put an end to apprenticeships altogether; for no person would subject himself to a seven years' servitude, when he knew, that having fulfilled his indenture, he would only be on a level with a man who perhaps had not been one year at the business. He was willing to examine and improve the 5th of Elizabeth, but would not agree to this unqualified repeal.Mr. Rose
 wished the Bill to go into the committee. He was aware that the subject was attended with considerable difficulties. The difficulty would be to find the means of doing away the abuses complained of, without doing away the system altogether, which he was convinced was useful to the perfection of our manufacturers, and still more useful as affecting the morality of the lower orders.Mr. Canning
 replied and observing upon the petitions on the table against the Bill, expressed his conviction that they were not the unsolicited acts of the petitioners; as indeed appeared from several placards about town, inviting signatures to such petitions; and those petitioners, he meant especially the journeymen mechanics, would find the repeal of the Act of Elizabeth rather materially serviceable, than in any degree injurious to their interests.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 deprecated the idea that morality was likely to be endangered, or our manufactures injured, by the enactment of the Bill under consideration; for Scotland, to which the Act of Elizabeth never extended, was never found in any degree inferior in morality, or skill in manufacture.Mr. B. Shaw
 observed, that he perfectly agreed in every syllable that had fallen from his hon. Colleague (Mr. W. Smith), with respect to the tendency of the paper which he had read; but he felt it his duty to exculpate the respectable inhabitants of Norwich from participating in the sentiments expressed in that production.Mr. Harvey
 seconded the motion, as the Bill proceeded on no general comprehensive system; but simply on a repeal, without any efficient substitute for what was to be repealed. He objected to the measure in a moral point of view; in which respect he was upheld by the opinions of lord Coke and sir Wm. Blackstone. He had heard much of vexatious prosecutions under the Act of Elizabeth; but, on enquiry, he found that, at Bristol, for the last 20 years, there had not been one such prosecution. If apprenticeships were more encouraged, he was satisfied that combinations among journeymen would almost entirely be put an end to. If the House were to lower its attention down to the humble cottage, they would there see the advantages of this system, in beholding careful masters provided for the youths, who, in addition, were provided with food and clothing, while their morals were protected. He should be happy that the present Bill were withdrawn, and some measure unaccompanied by its disadvantages were introduced.Mr. Protheroe
 explained that he could wish a general review of the whole system.Mr. Protheroe
 thought, that when the House came to consider the other Resolutions, it would see the propriety of pausing, at least for some time, before it went to a decision on so very important a measure. He wished that, once for all, the House would now decide on the interest by which those were actuated who opposed the Resolutions. The real interests of the consumer and of the landlord were one and the same. But what did the committee profess to do? Why, to raise the price to the consumer.—(A Member called out No! no!)—He would ask, whether the hon. member for the Queen's county (sir H. Parnell) had not acknowledged this on a former occasion; and if the hon. member who favoured him with the interruption took pains to enquire, he would find it was so. The necessary effect of the measure was, permanently to increase the price of corn. He approved of some parts of the view which his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken of the question.Mr. Horner
873 inquired whether, upon the whole estimates, there was an exceeding
873Mr. Tierney
880 could not disguise from himself that the present measure was attended with many difficulties. It would
880Mr. Hart Davis
l.874l.l. reported from the committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to take into consideration the Prince Regent's most gracious Message of Tuesday last, relating to the Duke of Wellington, the Resolutions which they had directed him to report to the House; and the same were read, as Follow:l.874l.l.Mr. Brogden
 hoped that some clause might be introduced into the Bill, when it was in the committee, that would give sufficient encouragement to the apprentice system; while, at the same time, the abuses of it might be remedied.Alderman Atkins
 was extremely averse from allowing the Admiralty to have the direction of the commerce of the country. Another hardship was, that the Admiralty should have power to compel the merchants to give bonds; but, with the explanation given, he would not oppose the further progress of the Bill.Mr. Alderman Atkins
871amor patriœ, said, he was afraid much danger would arise from such a regulation, as notice would thereby be given to the American cruisers, where the ships to be licensed would be bound to. He was sorry to say, that there were persons in this country, and not a few of them, who were so lost to all sense of the 871amor patriœ,Mr. Croker
870869 expressed his persuasion, that the representation which had been made by his hon. friend (Mr. Canning) arose out of a misconception. Before the war with America, it had been sufficient to protect the trade in the Channel, no danger being to apprehended in America and the West Indies. Licences, therefore, to go north about were, at that period, granted by the Admiralty, with perfect family. On the breaking out of the American war, however, the case was changed. The American merchant ships were almost universally converted into privateers. The seas swarmed with thousands of them. Vessels then running from Liverpool, and the other western ports, merely ran to fall into the jaws of the enemy. Feeling this, the Admiralty refused to grant licenses; the only tendency of which was, the capture of the vessels to which they were granted. On the very night of the arrival of the American declaration of war, the revocation of all licences which had been granted was published in the Gazette. During half the year, it was impossible to blockade the American ports; and during the other ball, the blockade was necessarily very imperfect. The only hope, therefore, of keeping the American privateers within their ports, was, to withhold from them the expectation of a prey. The admiralty, therefore, established regular convoys; and the gentlemen interested in the West India trade having been invited to meet and made such arrangements as would suit their interest, and at the same time would not be incompatible with the public service, it was settled, that four convoys should sail annually from Spit-head, and four from Cork, for the West Indies, and that they should be placed within a fortnight to one another; so that the vessels who were accidentally too late for the one, might yet contrive to catch
870869Mr. Croker
l.l.l.l. replied, that on the Extraordinary Estimates there was a diminution of nearly 700,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Croker
 assured the House, that the largest possible allowance should be made; but he could not give a more precise answer. He stated, that the Widows' Pensions, originally established by queen Caroline, would be augmented in consequence of new regulations.Mr. Croker
 agreed to the Resolution, as far as it went; but thought it did not go far enough. His opinion went the length of establishing that system which, by the experience of two half centuries, had made the country an exporting one; and the benefits of which were opposed to the experience of the last half century; by which it appeared, that the contrary system had made this country an importing one in the corn trade. He would not now take the sense of the House on the propriety of extending the measure, but he implored the House to turn its attention to the principle of the Resolution.Mr. J. P. Grant
 inquired, whether it was meant to make an addition to the tickets of out-pensioners at Greenwich Hospital?Mr. Lockhart
 expressed his opinion, that this Bill, it enacted, should only operate prospectively; that is, that it should not become effective until a certain period; so that those mechanics who had served apprenticeships upon the faith of the existing law, should not be injured by its operation, by being thrown out of employment at a period of life when they could not devote themselves to any other profession than that to which they had been reared.Mr. Lockhart
 said, licenses had been given by the Admiralty to several ships to go to Archangel; and the consequences were, that the friends of the American curisers had so effectually exerted their abilities in giving them information, that he saw no less than 18 of them on Lloyd's books, one morning, as prizes to the American privateers. He therefore thought the licenses, could not be kept too secret.Mr. Marryatt
 was in favour of allowing the exportation of corn.Mr. Marryatt
 opposed the Bill because he thought that its enactment would operate seriously to the prejudice of our manufactures both in skill and reputation. Indeed, such had been found the effect of the partial repeal of the statute of Elizabeth with respect to the woollen manufacture. For although the Yorkshire tag had formerly been a sufficient recommendation upon the continent; yet since the repeal alluded to, our pieces of woollen-manufactures were examined yard by yard before they were purchased.Mr. P. Moore
883 said, that if no other member introduced a clause to that effect, he himself should feel it his duty to propose one. He thought the penal clauses of the Act of Elizabeth should certainly be repealed; but that, at the same time, it was much better that young people should
883Mr. Serjeant Best
l.l.l.l.l.872 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move the different estimates for the naval service of the current year. It would be unnecessary for him to enter minutely into this subject, as the estimates had been printed several weeks, and were in the hands of the members. If any gentleman, however, wished for explanation on any particular branch, he should be happy to afford it. The estimates consisted of the Ordinary, the Extraordinary, and Transport Service. The Ordinary Service was divided into three branches: 1st. Pay—2d. Half-pay.
l.l.l.l.l.872Mr. W. Dundas
 thought, if any one measure than another could be said to involve the general rights of mankind, the present was that measure. What was this but the general right of the inhabitants of this country, to employ the energies of their mind and body in the way they themselves pleased? And if a system were to be continued by which men were deprived of this general and undoubted right, it seemed to be incumbent on those who contended for the continuance of such a restriction to shew on what principle it was founded. If gentlemen attended to the time in which the law in question was passed, they would find that it was a period in which many ill-advised monopolies had been granted, and one in which remonstrances on that subject had been made by the House of Commons on the impolicy of such a system, which had not been much attended to. Nothing, he was convinced, had contributed so much as the law in question to check the progress in our arts and manufactures.Mr. Giddy
 agreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Horner), that the interests of the landlord and consumer were the same; and he hoped that no imputations of interests views would be cast on any members, as many ill-disposed persons without doors were inclined to be sufficiently liberal in such calumnies. There was a paper which had been circulated at Norwich, containing a most violent petition to parliament, which had been agreed on at New Castle upon-Tyne, and which had been presented to the House of Lords by earl Grey, and to the House of Commons by the member for Newcastle. The Petition characterized the Report of the committee as a proposition which had for its object the raising the import price of corn, and compromising the commercial interests of the country for the temporary interests of the landlords; and as "an unhallowed attempt to bring ruin and devastation on the country, to annihilate the manufactures, and force our artizans to emigrate to countries where the means of subsistence were more easily obtained." From this paper, which would be circulated throughout the country, the House would see the necessity of abstaining from all inflammatory language. The consideration of the subject should be postponed, he thought, to a time when the politics of the country, internal and external, were more settled, especially until the time when the gold circulation was restored.Mr. W. Smith
, in explanation, said he was far from meaning to insinuate, that the paper in question was approved of by the people of Norwich; he was well acquainted with their feelings, and he knew they were opposed to such illiberal sentiments. That paper he considered as the production of some malignant spirits, who wished to raise a clamour against the proposed measure.Mr. W. Smith
884 observed, that he never heard of any proposition of reform which was not likely to be inconvenient to some persons; and therefore he was not surprised at the assertion, that the adoption of the Bill before the House would operate to injure the interests of particular persons. The apprehension of such injury was, however, in his judgment, unfounded. But still, those who expressed the apprehension were entitled to attention; and the objections which certain petitioners urged against this Bill, would, he had no doubt, meet all due consideration in the committee. The fact was, as to the statute of Elizabeth, that its existence served to create certain monopolies; and the effect of those monopolies was, that when the
884Mr. W. Smith
, on the part of his constituents, the manufacturers of Birmingham, was strongly in favour of the present repeal. If the law, as it now stood, were put in force, it would have the effect of imposing the strongest possible fetters upon ingenuity and industry,Sir C. Mordaunt
, seeing the sense of the House against him, withdrew his amendment.Sir F. Flood
, who, though a friend to liberty, disliked licentiousness. The Bill went to abrogate that most salutary law of the 5th Elizabeth; and to revive the practice which had previously existed from Edward the third's time. It would be destructive of the interests of persons who served their apprenticeships, and paid for education in their respective trades, and ruinous to the morals of youth. It would be hurtful to commerce, to mechanics, to manufactures, and to the Stamp Act. The present law had lasted 220 years. He proposed to postpone the second reading to that day six months.Sir Fred. Flood
876 was also glad of the support of the right hon. gentleman; and hoped that another right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) would now see that the measure was neither rash nor unfounded. The
876Sir H. Parnell
 had been applied to on the subject of the present Bill, by the constituents of two hon. gentlemen who had already delivered their sentiments on the measure this night (Messrs. Protheroe and Davis). He felt the highest respect for the gentlemen who had so applied to him on the subject of the present Bill; but his opinion of the measure being decidedly opposite to theirs, he thought he should not be acting a manly part were he either to abstain from voting on this Bill, or were he to content himself with a silent vote on this occasion. He was satisfied that there were reasons sufficiently strong to support the system of apprenticeship in those trades in which a number of years were requisite to the acquiring a knowledge of them, without the assistance of the law as it now stood. This law, which went to prohibit a man from the exercise of that trade for which he was fit, he therefore thought ought to be repealed. For what was it but to take from a poor man the only property he possessed—his genius and industry—and to drive him into a workhouse; or to force him to abandon his country, and to forsake his wife and family. These were the moral consequences which the House was to look for from a perseverance in the law as it now stood.Sir S. Romilly
882 was surprised that the hon. baronet (sir F. Flood) should be so anxious to perpetuate a statute which never was law in Ireland; and yet, in that country, where no such penalties as those indicted by the 5th of Elizabeth existed, the system of apprenticeships was freely and voluntarily adopted. He thought, on every principle of justice, that the sub-
882Sir J. Newport
 supported the measure. It was foretold in 1806, when the door was thrown open for export in Ireland, that it would be against that country. On the contrary, however, the agriculture of Ireland had increased every day since; and what had been found beneficial in one part of the United Kingdom could not be prejudicial to the other.Sir John Newport
, seeing the right hon. Secretary for Ireland in his place, observed, that he was, no doubt, well acquainted with the late proceedings of the Catholic Board. It was his opinion, that government ought to take every step to put down an evil which excited alarm in the minds of every well wisher to the prosperity of Ireland; and he wished to know what it was the intention of government to do in this business?Mr. Knox
 said, a large proportion of the Protestant population of Ireland were deeply interested in this matter.Mr. Knox
 conceived the measure to be of so great importance that, if practicable, the government ought to take it wholly into its own hands. He wished the Bill, at any rate, to go into the committee, that they might have an opportunity of looking into the merits and practicability of the measure.Mr. Moore
l. read a letter signed "Melville," and dated from the Admiralty in April 1812. The letter bore, that the Board of Admiralty were satisfied that the canal was of the proper depth, and would be of considerable benefit to the naval service. With respect to subscriptions, he had to state that 240,000l.Sir John Coxe Hippesley
 said, he had received a great deal of information from various quarters on the subject of, this canal, from which he, was induced to believe that the navigation of the river Thames would be injured by it; he therefore was in favour of the amendment.Mr. Rose
889 stated, that the present Bill differed from the previous regulations on the subject of elections. It had been urged against the measure it would be a great hardship on the elector, if forced
889Mr. Douglas
890 thought that it would be advisable to introduce a clause into the Bill, by which electors within the county might be carried free of expence to the place of election. He was afraid the Bill would
890Mr. Gordon
 said, he should vote for the amendment, as he thought the subject required further consideration. The Bill went to re-enact an old law, as the statute of William was perfectly clear.Mr. Western
 presented a Bill to permit the exportation of corn, grain, meal, malt, and flour, from any part of the United Kingdom, without payment of duty or receiving of bounty; and moved, that it be read a first time.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked whether this measure was merely founded on a division of the Report of the Committee into separate measures?Mr. Western
 said, it was a Bill framed in pursuance of the first Resolution; the further consideration of the other Resolutions having been postponed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was so satisfied of the monstrous mischief with which this Bill was likely to be attended, that if he stood alone he should divide the House upon it.Mr. Rose
892 of Norfolk said, he considered
892Mr. Coke
893 was as little inclined, as the hon. gentleman himself to make assertions inconsistent with truth, and he would now throw that observation in his teeth. With respect to what he had stated of the opinion of Mr. Pitt respecting the measure of 1804, he repeated, that his statement was correct; and upon a comparison of his political life with that of the hon. gentleman, he had no hesitation, in saying, that he should be found as little capable of a mis-statement as that hon. gentleman, or any other member in that House. As to the imputation of a factious or seditious feeling, he denied that any such conclusion
893Mr. Rose
 was surprised at the doctrines laid down in the pamphlet or speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose), which he held in his hand. It had been said that it was seditious; but for his own part he did hot think it was so creditable as fair, honest, and open sedition. In fact, there was nothing open and candid in it; and what he complained of was, that the right hon. gentleman had drawn unfair deductions from existing facts, and had, by an artful but unjust mode of reasoning, endeavoured to excite a popular feeling of dissatisfaction to a measure in which the true interests of the country were involved. With respect to the opinion attributed by the right hon. gentleman to Mr. Pitt, he could not help thinking, as far as his memory would serve him, that he had not fairly quoted that great statesman's sentiments on the subject; as, so far from opposing the measure of 1804, he considered that he had been its warmest friend.Mr. Western
891 remarked on the contrariety of the reasons adduced by the opponents of the Bill; some alledging that it was an innovation, and therefore to be rejected as an evil; others, that it was merely a re-enactment of the existing statute of king William, and therefore to be rejected as unnecessary. He approved of the Bill as consonant with the spirit which pervaded the whole of the constitution of our representation; the object of which was, to exclude those who, from their poverty, were open to temptation. For what reason but that on which this Bill was founded, were those excluded in county elections from voting who had not forty shillings freeholds, and those who received parochial assistance in all cases? For what reason, but this, were persons excluded from that House, who had not freeholds to a certain amount? According to the noble lord (Milton), who had opposed this Bill, it was proper that electors should receive a compensation for their loss of time, as well as for their pecuniary expence. This he (Mr. W.) thought a manifest violation of the statute of William, and he hoped that committees would not always continue to sanction such practices. The present Bill was a measure which might be of considerable benefit, especially if coupled with one which might enact, that when a poll should be demanded in the case of a county election, there might be several places for voting, so disposed as to be sufficiently near to the habitations of the freeholders of every part in the county. Such a measure would do away with the increasing expence of elections, which threatened the purity and independence of that House. The reason why he had not proposed such a measure was, that he had not found a
891Mr. C. W. Wynn
 thought that the candidates should be allowed to furnish the voters with the means of conveyance, but not with money to defray their expences; for when money was once allowed to be paid, who should determine the exact sum?Mr. Rose
 declared; that he should be equally inclined to vote against the Bill and against the Amendment; as the former would not only disqualify a number of voters; but would give an undue power to a set of persons whom he could not better describe than by calling them itinerant sheriffs.Mr. Lascelles
 wished to remind the House, that the Bill then before them did not at all relate to the prices of grain. The Bill turned on a clear and plain principle, though much difference of opinion existed on it. To that principle (merely the propriety or impropriety of a free export), gentlemen ought to confine themselves.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped that from henceforth the House would enter into the discussion of this subject with calmness and deliberation; giving each other credit for those motives alone which ought to influence members of parliament.Mr. Ellison
s.898 observed, that it was admitted, both by the noble lord who moved the amendment, and by a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose), who, on a former night, had opposed the Resolutions, that, to obtain a supply of corn for our manufacturers, without having recourse to any foreign country, was a matter of great consequence. The question was, whether it could be obtained without making sacrifices of greater magnitude? In his opinion, by giving a proper support to the agricultural interests of the country, a proper supply of grain could be procured at home, without rendering the price incompatible with the means of the lowest labourer, at the present rate of wages. The noble lord stated, as a reason for not agreeing with the report, that it contained propositions inconsistent with each other. That it proposed to benefit the agriculturalist by raising the price of corn, and to add to the comfort of the manufacturer by diminishing it; and,
s.898Sir G. Clerke
917† There is no intention here to underrate the value of our manufactures, nor is any doubt entertained of the immense influence of their success upon the prosperity of agriculture; the observation is meant only to apply generally in a way which is never disputed, that the growth or manufacture of corn (as it may fairly be termed) is of more importance than all others.***916s.s.s.915914913912911744Average Price per Quarter
744Average Price per Quarter11267
112671,145,58424717945 years
1,145,58424717945 years198,71634317895 years
198,71634317895 years185,9069½4517845 years
185,9069½4517845 years290,59594017795 years
290,59594017795 years276,2069½4717745 years
276,2069½4717745 years223,18424317695 years
223,18424317695 yearsQrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending333Average
333Average7465
7465696,11773017645 years
696,11773017645 years273,80523617595 years
273,80523617595 years1,080,07753017545 years
1,080,07753017545 years932,59392717495 years
932,59392717495 years446,37872817445 years
446,37872817445 years597,462103017395 years
597,462103017395 years468,84492517345 years
468,84492517345 years216,64373717295 years
216,64373717295 years532,732102817245 years
532,732102817245 years485,85213317194 years
485,85213317194 years453,98683717154 years
453,98683717154 years299,36794917114 years
299,36794917114 years289,304112517076 years
289,304112517076 years139,86684217015 years
139,86684217015 yearsQrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.d.d.s.s.endingThe Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.
The Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.
744Average Price per Quarter
744Average Price per Quarter11267
112671,145,58424717945 years
1,145,58424717945 years198,71634317895 years
198,71634317895 years185,9069½4517845 years
185,9069½4517845 years290,59594017795 years
290,59594017795 years276,2069½4717745 years
276,2069½4717745 years223,18424317695 years
223,18424317695 yearsQrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending333Average
333Average7465
7465696,11773017645 years
696,11773017645 years273,80523617595 years
273,80523617595 years1,080,07753017545 years
1,080,07753017545 years932,59392717495 years
932,59392717495 years446,37872817445 years
446,37872817445 years597,462103017395 years
597,462103017395 years468,84492517345 years
468,84492517345 years216,64373717295 years
216,64373717295 years532,732102817245 years
532,732102817245 years485,85213317194 years
485,85213317194 years453,98683717154 years
453,98683717154 years299,36794917114 years
299,36794917114 years289,304112517076 years
289,304112517076 years139,86684217015 years
139,86684217015 yearsQrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.d.d.s.s.endingThe Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.
The Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.† A TABLE shewing the average Prices of Middling Wheat per Statute Quarter; the average Excess of the Exports of every sort of Corn, Flour, and Meal; the average Imports of the same, from 1697 to 1764, both inclusive.910s.d.;s.*s.d.;s.**d.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.909d.s.908s.;s.;s.s.;d.;s.s.s.s.d.s.d.;s.s.s.s.s.s.s.;s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.907d.s.s.906s.d.;s.s.s.s.905904903***In regard to Ireland, the authorities referred to by Mr. Wakefield will not allow us to suppose a greater population than that of five millions; and it is well known that the great basis of their support is the potatoe: we must however remember, that all the higher classes, with a large proportion of the inhabitants of towns, as well as counties in the north of that kingdom, are supported on corn. If all these circumstances permit us to estimate them as equal to the entire nourishment of 1 million of persons, and allow to each (as their consumption is both of wheat and oats, but the latter in the far greatest proportion) 18 bushels,*Total consumption of Great Britain, 37,692,980 quarters.As oats are much consumed in Scotland, and the amount in quarters much exceeding the consumption in wheat per head, this seems to be a moderate allowance.If the produce be 22 bushels per acre, the acres employed will be 3,399,126; and taking wheat at one-fifth of the arable, and barley and oats as occupying half as much land again as wheat, the acres of those grains will be 5,098,686 acres; and the produce at 4½ quarter per acre will be 22,944,100; and the total of white corn will be 32,291,697 quarters: if we allow proportionably for the population of Scotland, it will add 5,401,283.9029,347,597Annual growth
9,347,597Annual growth934,759Add for seed one-ninth
934,759Add for seed one-ninth8,412,838
8,412,838187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 1812
187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 18128,600,000
8,600,000100,000Consumed, not in bread
100,000Consumed, not in bread8,500,000Wheat as above
8,500,000Wheat as above9,999,999
9,999,999668,333Oats
668,333Oats831,666Barley
831,666Barley8,500,000Wheat, with some Rye
8,500,000Wheat, with some RyeQrs.
Qrs.
9,347,597Annual growth
9,347,597Annual growth934,759Add for seed one-ninth
934,759Add for seed one-ninth8,412,838
8,412,838187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 1812
187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 18128,600,000
8,600,000100,000Consumed, not in bread
100,000Consumed, not in bread8,500,000Wheat as above
8,500,000Wheat as above9,999,999
9,999,999668,333Oats
668,333Oats831,666Barley
831,666Barley8,500,000Wheat, with some Rye
8,500,000Wheat, with some RyeQrs.
Qrs.Population of England and Wales 10,791,115, whose consumption may thus be calculated:Population of Great Britain 12,596,803The following estimate of the growth of wheat, barley, and oats, in the united empire, is drawn out by Arthur Young, esq. I have formed mine on the same principles; but estimating the produce of wheat at only twenty bushels per acre, and considering the growth of the other grains not to come so often in the general course of husbandry, I find a lower result, but am far from positive that mine is the most accurate. It will be obvious, the larger proportion of our consumption drawn from our own agriculture, the greater the evils resulting from its depression.their views forward; for it is to be presumed they are more able now, from their superior capital and machinery, to undersell foreign manufacturers, than they may be some time hence, They must expect that the struggle of rival nations, possessing great industry, taste, and ingenuity, will become more powerful after a short period of tranquillity; and then, when they would most stand in need of a cheap supply of food, they would find how much they had sacrificed to a temporary delusive advantage, and what an increase of price, as well as other evils; would eventually result from the depression of our agriculture at this time.901d.;s.d.;s.‡ Upon an average of some years prior to 1765, we annually exported about 600,000 quarters of grain; in 1764 the price of wheat was 30d.;s.d.;s.and, without being at war with us, will keep it for their own necessities‡. In addition to this loss, there will be the difference between a reduction of one fourth of thirty and of thirty-five; leaving us only 22,500,000 quarters, instead of 25,350,000. Then comes the further injury to our manufactures in another way, in as much as they will lose the foreign demand for their goods; and I should think the home demand would be diminished nearly in the proportion of 22,500,000 to 25,350,000, being the difference of quantity of corn our agricultural population would have for market. And here it may not be amiss to consider the two-fold power foreign countries would have over us, in the case of an extensive exchange of corn for manufactures, the one being of so much more importance than the other. The suspension of intercourse would not only be much less injurious to them, but the immediate consequence would be to give additional food to their people, and encouragement to their manufactures—to us universal distress, and absolute ruin to thousands of manufacturers. Let them recollect the injury they have suffered by the interruption of the foreign market for their goods, and compare it with a small difference in the value of corn. It is infinitely desirable they should be induced to see that their prosperity is deeply involved in, and indeed dependent upon, the prosperity of our agriculture; and that it is as much their interest to admit, as it is that of the agriculturalists to require such a difference of price, as would for a time result from an effectual check (I do not mean absolute prohibition) to the further introduction of foreign grain; they would in consequence have it cheaper upon an average of years. It is indeed their especial interest to cast900†As far as our supplies may be drawn from America, the danger of a season applying generally to all the countries from whence our supplies came, is certainly less.**There is one other point of view in which I wish to represent the possible, if not probable, consequences of a reliance upon foreign countries. I will take it for granted, that we should receive five millions of quarters of grain from them, and grow only thirty of our own: let us suppose, under such circumstances, what is not at all unlikely, a bad season throughout Europe, and the general crop defective one fourth.† Those countries, from whence we have been accustomed to draw these five millions, will, of course, want it,*It is sometimes said, there would be no danger in opening our ports to foreign corn; I am far from thinking a flood would come in that would overwhelm us at once; but it can hardly be doubted that foreigners can undersell our farmers, and would gradually gain upon them the possession of the markets to a dangerous extent. The superiority of their soil and climate, with taxes and burthens of all kinds so much lighter, must give them a most preponderating advantage; so that the idea of leaving the British and foreign grower to find their own level, appears to me like throwing two persons into the water, the one in the full possession of all his natural powers, the other with a millstone round his neck. This does not militate against the argument before urged, that when the foreign supply has run to its limit, the price would again rise to such a degree as would give a profit to capital and industry devoted to agriculture, equal to that applied to other manufactures.*of being derived from a certain home market, instead of a precarious foreign market.899It must be obvious to the reader, that in the speech reported in the foregoing pages, a variety of important considerations are not adverted to, and there are one or two on which I am desirous of making some cursory remarks. In the first place, I wish to direct the attention of the manufacturing class of the community to the great advantage of the home market. They must see, upon reflection, to what an enormous extent the home demand for their goods exceeds the foreign; and it must therefore be obvious how essential to them is the prosperity of our agricultural population, creating, as they do, so large a share of the home demand. It is said, if we take corn from foreigners, they will receive our manufactures: suppose we take a million of quarters, and they receive three millions of money for it; or, instead of money, consent to take the value in manufactures, it certainly appears that we should receive an equivalent in one sense; but I think I have made it evident, that the million supplied by foreigners could be furnished by our own agriculturalists, who would thereby, to that amount, become better customers than they are at present. The quantity of custom, or sale of manufactures, would be the same, with the advantage***917† There is no intention here to underrate the value of our manufactures, nor is any doubt entertained of the immense influence of their success upon the prosperity of agriculture; the observation is meant only to apply generally in a way which is never disputed, that the growth or manufacture of corn (as it may fairly be termed) is of more importance than all others.***916s.s.s.915914913912911744Average Price per Quarter
744Average Price per Quarter11267
112671,145,58424717945 years
1,145,58424717945 years198,71634317895 years
198,71634317895 years185,9069½4517845 years
185,9069½4517845 years290,59594017795 years
290,59594017795 years276,2069½4717745 years
276,2069½4717745 years223,18424317695 years
223,18424317695 yearsQrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending333Average
333Average7465
7465696,11773017645 years
696,11773017645 years273,80523617595 years
273,80523617595 years1,080,07753017545 years
1,080,07753017545 years932,59392717495 years
932,59392717495 years446,37872817445 years
446,37872817445 years597,462103017395 years
597,462103017395 years468,84492517345 years
468,84492517345 years216,64373717295 years
216,64373717295 years532,732102817245 years
532,732102817245 years485,85213317194 years
485,85213317194 years453,98683717154 years
453,98683717154 years299,36794917114 years
299,36794917114 years289,304112517076 years
289,304112517076 years139,86684217015 years
139,86684217015 yearsQrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.d.d.s.s.endingThe Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.
The Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.
744Average Price per Quarter
744Average Price per Quarter11267
112671,145,58424717945 years
1,145,58424717945 years198,71634317895 years
198,71634317895 years185,9069½4517845 years
185,9069½4517845 years290,59594017795 years
290,59594017795 years276,2069½4717745 years
276,2069½4717745 years223,18424317695 years
223,18424317695 yearsQrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.Qrs.d.d.s.s.ending333Average
333Average7465
7465696,11773017645 years
696,11773017645 years273,80523617595 years
273,80523617595 years1,080,07753017545 years
1,080,07753017545 years932,59392717495 years
932,59392717495 years446,37872817445 years
446,37872817445 years597,462103017395 years
597,462103017395 years468,84492517345 years
468,84492517345 years216,64373717295 years
216,64373717295 years532,732102817245 years
532,732102817245 years485,85213317194 years
485,85213317194 years453,98683717154 years
453,98683717154 years299,36794917114 years
299,36794917114 years289,304112517076 years
289,304112517076 years139,86684217015 years
139,86684217015 yearsQrs.d.d.s.s.ending
Qrs.d.d.s.s.endingThe Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.
The Excess of Imports.The Excess of Exports.The Price of Wheat Per Statute Quarter.PERIODS.† A TABLE shewing the average Prices of Middling Wheat per Statute Quarter; the average Excess of the Exports of every sort of Corn, Flour, and Meal; the average Imports of the same, from 1697 to 1764, both inclusive.910s.d.;s.*s.d.;s.**d.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.909d.s.908s.;s.;s.s.;d.;s.s.s.s.d.s.d.;s.s.s.s.s.s.s.;s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.907d.s.s.906s.d.;s.s.s.s.905904903***In regard to Ireland, the authorities referred to by Mr. Wakefield will not allow us to suppose a greater population than that of five millions; and it is well known that the great basis of their support is the potatoe: we must however remember, that all the higher classes, with a large proportion of the inhabitants of towns, as well as counties in the north of that kingdom, are supported on corn. If all these circumstances permit us to estimate them as equal to the entire nourishment of 1 million of persons, and allow to each (as their consumption is both of wheat and oats, but the latter in the far greatest proportion) 18 bushels,*Total consumption of Great Britain, 37,692,980 quarters.As oats are much consumed in Scotland, and the amount in quarters much exceeding the consumption in wheat per head, this seems to be a moderate allowance.If the produce be 22 bushels per acre, the acres employed will be 3,399,126; and taking wheat at one-fifth of the arable, and barley and oats as occupying half as much land again as wheat, the acres of those grains will be 5,098,686 acres; and the produce at 4½ quarter per acre will be 22,944,100; and the total of white corn will be 32,291,697 quarters: if we allow proportionably for the population of Scotland, it will add 5,401,283.9029,347,597Annual growth
9,347,597Annual growth934,759Add for seed one-ninth
934,759Add for seed one-ninth8,412,838
8,412,838187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 1812
187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 18128,600,000
8,600,000100,000Consumed, not in bread
100,000Consumed, not in bread8,500,000Wheat as above
8,500,000Wheat as above9,999,999
9,999,999668,333Oats
668,333Oats831,666Barley
831,666Barley8,500,000Wheat, with some Rye
8,500,000Wheat, with some RyeQrs.
Qrs.
9,347,597Annual growth
9,347,597Annual growth934,759Add for seed one-ninth
934,759Add for seed one-ninth8,412,838
8,412,838187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 1812
187,162Deduct balance of export and import on the average of 1811 and 18128,600,000
8,600,000100,000Consumed, not in bread
100,000Consumed, not in bread8,500,000Wheat as above
8,500,000Wheat as above9,999,999
9,999,999668,333Oats
668,333Oats831,666Barley
831,666Barley8,500,000Wheat, with some Rye
8,500,000Wheat, with some RyeQrs.
Qrs.Population of England and Wales 10,791,115, whose consumption may thus be calculated:Population of Great Britain 12,596,803The following estimate of the growth of wheat, barley, and oats, in the united empire, is drawn out by Arthur Young, esq. I have formed mine on the same principles; but estimating the produce of wheat at only twenty bushels per acre, and considering the growth of the other grains not to come so often in the general course of husbandry, I find a lower result, but am far from positive that mine is the most accurate. It will be obvious, the larger proportion of our consumption drawn from our own agriculture, the greater the evils resulting from its depression.their views forward; for it is to be presumed they are more able now, from their superior capital and machinery, to undersell foreign manufacturers, than they may be some time hence, They must expect that the struggle of rival nations, possessing great industry, taste, and ingenuity, will become more powerful after a short period of tranquillity; and then, when they would most stand in need of a cheap supply of food, they would find how much they had sacrificed to a temporary delusive advantage, and what an increase of price, as well as other evils; would eventually result from the depression of our agriculture at this time.901d.;s.d.;s.‡ Upon an average of some years prior to 1765, we annually exported about 600,000 quarters of grain; in 1764 the price of wheat was 30d.;s.d.;s.and, without being at war with us, will keep it for their own necessities‡. In addition to this loss, there will be the difference between a reduction of one fourth of thirty and of thirty-five; leaving us only 22,500,000 quarters, instead of 25,350,000. Then comes the further injury to our manufactures in another way, in as much as they will lose the foreign demand for their goods; and I should think the home demand would be diminished nearly in the proportion of 22,500,000 to 25,350,000, being the difference of quantity of corn our agricultural population would have for market. And here it may not be amiss to consider the two-fold power foreign countries would have over us, in the case of an extensive exchange of corn for manufactures, the one being of so much more importance than the other. The suspension of intercourse would not only be much less injurious to them, but the immediate consequence would be to give additional food to their people, and encouragement to their manufactures—to us universal distress, and absolute ruin to thousands of manufacturers. Let them recollect the injury they have suffered by the interruption of the foreign market for their goods, and compare it with a small difference in the value of corn. It is infinitely desirable they should be induced to see that their prosperity is deeply involved in, and indeed dependent upon, the prosperity of our agriculture; and that it is as much their interest to admit, as it is that of the agriculturalists to require such a difference of price, as would for a time result from an effectual check (I do not mean absolute prohibition) to the further introduction of foreign grain; they would in consequence have it cheaper upon an average of years. It is indeed their especial interest to cast900†As far as our supplies may be drawn from America, the danger of a season applying generally to all the countries from whence our supplies came, is certainly less.**There is one other point of view in which I wish to represent the possible, if not probable, consequences of a reliance upon foreign countries. I will take it for granted, that we should receive five millions of quarters of grain from them, and grow only thirty of our own: let us suppose, under such circumstances, what is not at all unlikely, a bad season throughout Europe, and the general crop defective one fourth.† Those countries, from whence we have been accustomed to draw these five millions, will, of course, want it,*It is sometimes said, there would be no danger in opening our ports to foreign corn; I am far from thinking a flood would come in that would overwhelm us at once; but it can hardly be doubted that foreigners can undersell our farmers, and would gradually gain upon them the possession of the markets to a dangerous extent. The superiority of their soil and climate, with taxes and burthens of all kinds so much lighter, must give them a most preponderating advantage; so that the idea of leaving the British and foreign grower to find their own level, appears to me like throwing two persons into the water, the one in the full possession of all his natural powers, the other with a millstone round his neck. This does not militate against the argument before urged, that when the foreign supply has run to its limit, the price would again rise to such a degree as would give a profit to capital and industry devoted to agriculture, equal to that applied to other manufactures.*of being derived from a certain home market, instead of a precarious foreign market.899It must be obvious to the reader, that in the speech reported in the foregoing pages, a variety of important considerations are not adverted to, and there are one or two on which I am desirous of making some cursory remarks. In the first place, I wish to direct the attention of the manufacturing class of the community to the great advantage of the home market. They must see, upon reflection, to what an enormous extent the home demand for their goods exceeds the foreign; and it must therefore be obvious how essential to them is the prosperity of our agricultural population, creating, as they do, so large a share of the home demand. It is said, if we take corn from foreigners, they will receive our manufactures: suppose we take a million of quarters, and they receive three millions of money for it; or, instead of money, consent to take the value in manufactures, it certainly appears that we should receive an equivalent in one sense; but I think I have made it evident, that the million supplied by foreigners could be furnished by our own agriculturalists, who would thereby, to that amount, become better customers than they are at present. The quantity of custom, or sale of manufactures, would be the same, with the advantage***Mr. Western
 said, the principle which he had always maintained was, that the grower should be protected. How this could be done, was a subject for enquiry; and what he complained of was, that they were proceeding without having sufficient information. All that he asked was, that when an adequate price had been fixed for the protection of the grower, importation should be encouraged. But the prices had been fixed without sufficient enquiry. He much objected to free trade; but would not have trade free in one way and fettered in another. An hon. gentleman had said, that there was no objection to investigation. Why then should they not investigate the subject? Why not investigate it immediately? For himself, he would be happy if a committee were appointed to proceed in the investigation to-morrow. Certainly the present time was, of all others, the most unseasonable for a change, but especially for such a change as was proposed. He would again say, that he most cordially agreed with those who thought that the interests of the grower and the consumer could not be separated.Mr. Rose
920 contended, that the high price of corn must ultimately raise the price of labour in an equal proportion;
920Mr. Abercrombie
 said, that when the amendment proposed by the noble lord should be disposed of, he would move the re-commitment of the Resolution, in order to propose as an amendment, instead of any duty, to prohibit the importation of grain altogether, up to that price at which the duty was to cease according to the original Resolution.Mr. Foster
 informed the noble lord, that before his amendment could be put, the House must decide upon receiving the report.The Speaker
897896† rose and said, that, in the observations he was about to make, he had not, the smallest intention of casting any reflection on those who supported the alteration in the corn laws, whom he believed to be actuated by the most pure and patriotic motives. They seemed unwilling, however, to have it supposed, that the principles which they advocated would raise the price of bread; but, when they admitted that their object was to make corn dearer, he could not conceive how they could get rid of the consequence which, in his mind, must necesarily follow; viz. an equal rise in the price of that which was manufactured from corn. Nor could he conceive upon what principle they
897896†Lord A. Hamilton
 seconded the motion.—He never thought that this was a fit measure to bring before a British parliament. He hoped, as the Bill was of such a nature, that those who had been always loud advocates for the people's rights, would oppose it.Mr. Alderman Smith
 warmly opposed the Resolution. He adverted to the opposition which he and some other hon. gentlemen had given last session to the Report made by the committee on this subject—a Report which he declared was full of crudities, and the avowed object of which was to raise the price of corn [Coughing, and cries of No! No!]. He repeated it, that the avowed object of the Report was, to raise the price of corn; and he would not be deterred by any high tone assumed in that House, from speaking his sentiments, and advocating the cause of his constituents, who would be seriously injured by the proposed regulations.Mr. Protheroe
 said, that he should be happy to have an opportunity of convincing the hon. baronet of the accuracy of his character of the Report.Mr. Protheroe
919918 was anxious to shew his reasons for the vote he should give to-night; begging this only to be kept in view, that if the principle of preventing the importation of grain was to be adopted, the most effectual mode in which it could be adopted was the best. The right hon. gentleman on the other side had failed in convincing him that there was any occasion for departing from that system in regard to the corn laws, which had hitherto prevailed. He was far from thinking that freedom in any trade was bad in itself, or that such a system was impracticable in regard to corn; but he thought it best that the system now in practice as to the corn trade
919918Mr. Horner
 said, there were many landholders along the course which the canal was to take that were inimical to the Bill. He did not think it could be productive of any advantage, and would therefore oppose it.Mr. Alderman Atkins
887l.l.l. said, a number of beneficial effects were held out as likely to result from this undertaking. It had been said, that 400,000887l.l.l.Mr. Calcraft
 was against the Bill. He saw no adequate advantage that could arise from it. On the contrary, it must be productive of injury to the river Thames. It would not benefit any part of the public Service. It was an unfair attempt to induce subscribers to sign their names, by stating that this measure had the approbation of the lords commissioners of the Admiralty. There was no such thing; they, in fact, declared no opinion upon the subject; if it were completed in such a way as not to injure the river, the first lord of the Admiralty admitted that it might be of some advantage. The expence, however, would be very great, and the advantage very doubtful. He would therefore oppose the Bill.Mr. Croker
 argued at some length against the report being received, on the ground of its tending to unsettle the common law. Should the present Bill pass, the consequence would be, that none but men of considerable property could exercise the elective franchise. The Bill was only in favour of candidates of a particular description, who stood upon the support of wealthy individuals; and did not provide that others might not do what was prohibited to the candidate. If passed into a law, the Bill would have a tendency to prevent gentlemen who were the most proper to represent the people from obtaining seats in that House: he also thought the present time, when we were about to obtain a restoration of the blessings of peace, not the most auspicious to draw the sword against the principle of the constitution. It would be better first to inquire into the state of the boroughs, before adopting such a measure as the present; many of which that were formerly open had now become close boroughs, from there being no non-resident electors; and many others would probably fall into the same state, should the Bill before the House pass into a law. Neither would the Bill prove beneficial to the candidate himself; as he would unavoidably be put to more expence by doing that clandestinely, which was now done openly and without disguise. He also wished that the word 'carriage' should be expunged from the Bill. Should the Bill be extended to counties, it would occasion the elections to have a puritanical air, as the hustings would be deserted and the whole business of the election would be carried on in secret. He concluded by moving as an amendment, that the report be taken into further consideration that day six months.Mr. Lockhart
 thought that the distinction betwixt indemnity and bribery had not been sufficiently attended to; and that the elective franchise was virtually taken away, when the elector had no means of exercising it. Should the Bill pass, open boroughs would become close. He characterised the measure as violent, outrageous, and unconstitutional.Mr. Marryatt
 expatiated on the advantages of our various institutions, and on the benefits derived from the nice balance of contending interests in the country. If any one of these interests were to obtain a decided preponderance, the result would be, the destruction, in the first instance, of the other interests, and ultimately of itself. This was the danger he apprehended from the Resolution proposed by the hon. baronet. If by its influence grain, and with grain the other necessaries of life, were rendered more expensive, or even kept up at their present price, the agriculturist and landholder might at present benefit; but the artisan and manufacturer, doomed to compete with countries to which the cheapness of food must give extraordinary advantages, would be compelled to emigrate; and eventually the landed interest would suffer in the general ruin.Mr. Marryatt
l. said, some gentlemen informed him, that if the 20 present subscribers withdrew, there were six persons who would advance 50,000l.Mr. P. Moore
 opposed the Bill; not considering the project as likely to produce the advantages that its friends held out.Mr. R. Ward
 said, that had the noble lord been in the House when he proposed his amendment, he would have seen that there was no intention on his part to defeat the object of the Bill. In proposing an allowance of so much a mile to voters, he wished to prevent many voters from being disfranchised. A bill had been filed in a court of justice, to receiver money that had been paid by a candidate for the carriage of voters, who had afterwards voted for another candidate; and the money had been recovered. This showed, that the principle on which he proceeded was recognised in law. Being of opinion that the subject required more mature consideration, he should vote for the amendment.Mr. Lushington
 argued in favour of the Bill. He contended that the competition between the home grower of corn and the foreign importer would not be a fair one. The cultivator of the land at home had a very heavy tax to pay before he could bring his corn to market. It was the land that paid the poor's rates, that paid the salaries of the functionaries of religion; it was from the rents of the land that churches were built and roads made. Would then the foreign importer be content to pay half the expence of these, in order to start fair in the market with the home producer of corn? The effect of a free and unrestrained importation from foreign markets would be, to throw a great proportion of the arable land of the kingdom out of cultivation. The farmer could not afford to grow corn, unless he could be sure of a certain average price for it. The effect of this diminished growth of corn would be, to render us unwisely and unnecessarily dependent upon foreign nations for our supply of this necessary article of life; and the ill effects of such a precarious supply we had already sufficiently felt, and might soon feel again with ten-fold force.Mr. Brand
894 wished to submit a few observations to the House upon this important topic. It was a maxim which he believed no man would attempt to confute, that the true policy of a country was to devote its capital in that way in which the greatest return was likely to be produced, and with the surplus of that return to obtain from other countries commodities which, by the same rule, they might have, to dispose of. It appeared to him, from a view of the state of this country at present, that the promotion of agricultural
894Mr. Davies Giddy
922921 conceived, that the appeal which had been made by a noble lord (lord Archibald Hamilton) to general and abstract principles of political œconomy totally failed; because the whole of our commercial and œconomical system was a system of artificial expedients. If our other regulations with respect to the price of commodities stood upon the basis of the principles of a free trade, then there could be no objection to leaving our agricultural productions to find their own level. But while our commerce and manufactures were encouraged and forced by protections, by bounties, by restraints on importation from abroad, he saw no reason why the laws relating to the growth of corn should alone form an exception to this general want of system in almost all other respects. The examples of Holland, Hamburgh, and Venice, which had been alluded to by the noble lord in support of his argument, appeared to him by no means in point. The two latter; Hamburgh and
922921Mr. Huskisson
 moved the order of the day for the House taking into farther consideration the Resolutions of the Corn Committee. On the motion, "That they be now taken into consideration,"Mr. Huskisson
l. thought the canal, on the present plan, ought not to be proceeded in. He asserted, that 10,000l.Sir Edward Knatchbull
 observed, that the hon. gentleman must have read the Report to which he alluded very imperfectly, to assert that it abounded with crudities, and that the avowed object of it was to raise the price of grain. Neither of these allegations was well founded; and the hon. gentleman ought to be more cautious how he spoke of the labours of a select committee of that House, many of whom were men of the highest political attainments and discrimination.Sir H. Parnell
l.l., in answer to an observation that this canal was approved of by the Admiralty, said, that the approbation consisted merely in this, that they would pay toll on their vessels going through the canal, in the same manner as other ships would do. The reach, which it was proposed to cut off, was extremely bad. In a paper which had been circulated, it was said that 200,000l.l.Sir Joseph Yorke
895 said, he did not intend to offer any observations on the measure before the House; nor would he have at all solicited their attention, if it had not been for some observations made on a former evening by the hon. gentleman below him
895Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that if this Bill were suffered to proceed, he should feel it his duty to propose, that an additional oath should be taken by every member at the table of that House; to this effect, that he had not, in the obtainment of his election given either meat, drink, or entertainment, to any voter whatever, either by himself, or through the means of any agent.Sir John Newport
 said, if the Bill were extended to counties, it would have the effect of disfranchising nine-tenths of the electors. How was it possible that the great bulk of the electors could proceed 60 to 70 miles to the place of election, and be absent many days from their occupations at a nearly ruinous expense of labour and time, as their industry was a almost their only property? The amendment made, to extend the provisions of the Bill to counties, might have been done slily, to defeat the Bill altogether; but should the word 'counties' be omitted, he did not think that much that was exceptionable would remain. If an elector were nonresident, it must be because he thought it more for his interest to quit than to remain in the place of his nativity; and his inability to exercise his elective franchise was the result of his own voluntary act. But the case was different as to counties, as the electors were necessarily spread all over the counties, and it would be an act of injury and injustice to apply to them the provisions of the Bill. If he were in order, he should move that the word 'counties' be left out.Lord Milton
928 said, that the letter was
928Mr. Sullivan
, in seconding the motion, said, that his hon. friend deserved the warmest approbation, for having proposed a measure which would cover a class of criminal cases most offensive to human nature, and which were not hitherto provided for. With respect to the directions given by the judges to acquit culprits of this description, they had merely done it in strict conformity with the letter of the law; at the same time that they did violence to their feelings—and deeply lamented the defective state of the criminal code. Such inconveniences arose from the present situation of the law. Looking upon child-stealing as a crime disgraceful to the country at large, and as one of the blackest in the black catalogue of human offences, he heartily supported the motion.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 intimated a wish that Bill should be extended to Ireland.Mr. Peel
 again expressed a wish, that the hon. mover, would wait till something should be done in consequence of the letter.Mr. Sullivan
936 said, that though the hon. baronet had given notice of his motion, yet, as it was simply for the production of instructions, to sir George Prevost, the House could be little prepared from such a notice for the discussion of those important topics to which the hon. baronet had adverted, and from, any reference to which at present he should as far as possible abstain. He merely rose, less it should be imagined, if he continued entirely silent, that the Irish government had not paid serious attention to those subjects on which the hon. baronet had particularly dwelt. On one point he
936Mr. Peel
 said, he had not asked any question of Mr. Kenny in a tone that evinced a desire to catechize him—nor, was any one of his interrogatories dictated by a spirit of idle curiosity. He had not premised his questions, by stating that his institution was contrary to law; he merely observed, that doubts of its legality had been expressed in parliament. He also informed Mr. Kenny, that the utmost jealousy had been manifested of the society of the Jesuits by the British government; so much so, that their property in Canada had been formerly confiscated. He asked the question relative to the funds of the establishment, and made the observation he had done, lest it might be hereafter inferred, because some communication had passed with a member of the Irish government, that that government had acquiesced in the propriety of the establishment in question.—At the interview he had with Mr. Kenny, he particularly told him, that he must not be surprised if the same feeling which had induced the British government to confiscate the property of the Jesuits in Canada, should induce them at least to watch with the almost vigilance and suspicion an institution established and superintended by one of the order, supported by funds, the origin and nature of which were totally unaccounted for.Mr. Peel
 said, that the order was effectually put down.Mr. Peel
942 said, that many gentlemen seemed to conceive that corn was the only thing which ought to be lowered in price. He would wish to know whether any of them had found out a way to lower the price of all other commodities in the same proportion. Our farmers were loaded with taxes on land, horses, leather property tax, and tithes, beyond what the farmers of other nations were subject to. If corn that was subject to none of those duties were allowed to come free into our market, this country would soon be over-whelmed with corn from the continent. When had from official accounts a statement of the rapid increase of agriculture in Ireland, were we to check her prosperous career? The agriculturists of this country did not ask for monopoly;
942Mr. Burrell
944 said, he was sorry that the objections of the hon. baronet had not been brought forward earlier; as he unfortunately laboured under such a severe cold, that he doubted whether he could render himself audible to the House. With regard to what had been stated by the hon. baronet, he had not satisfied him (Mr. Rose) that he had fallen into a single mistake. He was still of opinion, that such a report had never been presented to parliament upon so grave and important a subject. As to the statement in the pamphlet, that the first Resolution belonged wholly to the hon. baronet, the only mistake he had committed in that was, that be had not been gifted with the power of prophecy; for when the assertion was made, no other person, except the hon. baronet, had addressed the House upon that proposition. With regard to the Eton tables, if the hon. baronet had read his speech, he would have found the reason stated, why he (Mr. Rose) had deducted only one ninth, instead of two. He had applied to the Registrar of Eton College, and had received from him a certificate, which, if he had anticipated the objections that were made, be could have brought in his pocket; from which it appeared that the wheat supplied at the Eton market was not the best wheat, but what was called the middling wheat; and therefore, the second ninth ought not be deducted in
944Mr. Rose
 submitted, whether it would not be better, as the question respecting the report which the hon. baronet defended, had been already decided, that the House should resolve itself into the committee in which, the right hon. gentleman had given notice that he intended to propose a new resolution.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.s.;s.;s.;s.s.947l.946d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l..d.s.l.s.d.s.l.945 rose, and observed, that the main object which the House had in view was, to increase the quantity of corn in this country, and to prevent the necessity of applying to a foreign market for supplies. In former times, Great Britain, by the wisdom of the measures which she pursued, had completely obviated all necessity for the importation of corn. Her agriculture was then encouraged and promoted, and means were taken to prevent a competition in the market, by the produce of other countries. Within the last half century, however, the policy of the state seemed to have been completely changed; and instead of being independent of, our very existence had depended upon, foreign states; our agricultural interests had been neglected; and those wise maxims, which had produced such beneficial effects among our ancestors, had been totally abandoned. The folly of this course had now been carried home to the breast of every thinking man; and it was clear, that the best course which could be pursued, would be to go back to the old original principles, by which so much real advantage had been gained towards upholding the agricultural prosperity of the kingdom: we should see that a fair profit was allowed to the farmer; and that he was not met in the market by those who, possessing advantages superior to him, were enabled, by selling their commodity at a cheaper rate, totally to exclude him from all opportunity of reaping the fruits of his industry. In the year 1670, when a prohibitory Act was introduced, the price at which corn
s.s.;s.;s.;s.s.947l.946d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l..d.s.l.s.d.s.l.945Mr. Foster
948 observed, that there appeared to him to be very little difference of opinion in the House respecting the first and the third Resolutions. The main objection evidently rested upon the second Resolution; and so firmly was he convinced that this ought to be maturely considered, that, rather than consent to the amendment of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) he should propose to postpone the farther consideration of the whole subject till the next session of parliament. He would appeal to the statute-book for all ages, in proof that no law had ever been introduced which had operated as a distinct and total prohibition of foreign grain. The right hon. gentleman then took a view of the different propositions; anti observed, that though the value of money had considerably diminished of late years, yet for a century before it had been regularly on the increase. But the graduated fall was calculated on the present diminished value, as if that were never to change. On the whole, respecting importation, as we cannot undertake to supply ourselves, we must apportion the price so as to ensure the article at a moderate rate to the consumer. It would be unsafe and unwise permanently to fix any price at present; and even if the scale of his hon. friend were approved of, he should propose that it should only be adopted for a limited time, till its permanent propriety could be ascertained; for if you exclude a part of your supply, you force the whole of the demand upon the remaining part. He viewed the experiment of economy on the prime necessaries of life as a very unwise attempt; but he would agree with the hon. gentleman that nothing was so injurious to agriculture; as unsteady prices; yet it was only by the resolution of parliament to avoid frequent interference with them, that they could be properly regulated. In short
948The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the proposition made by his right hon. friend, convinced as he was that the agriculture of the country was brought to such a state of perfection as would, at least, easily enable us to supply our own consumption of grain.Mr. W. P. T. L. Wellesley
s.s.s.s. contended, in opposition to the arguments of an hon. gentleman opposite, that the high price of bread was of material importance to the labourer; and that either he must seriously suffer, or it must be made up to him by an increase of wages, Adverting to former regulations, he shewed that it had uniformly proved injurious to fix the price of corn by parliamentary enactment. In 1791 it had been raised 6s.s.s.s.Mr. Rose
955s. expressed his readiness, provided the principle of his proposition were acceded to by the committee, to fill up the blank with 84955s.Mr. Foster
 observed, that his right hon. friend need not do that until the committee had determined whether or not to adopt the graduated scale proposed by his hon. friend. That was the question upon which they were now called upon to decide; and for one, be should pronounce an unequivocal affirmative.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the graduated scale was the least objectionable measure, as doing least; for he had considerable doubts whether it was necessary or proper to do any thing but what had been done; namely, the allowing the free exportation of grain. But as he did not think proper to erect his judgment against the committee, he should agree to the graduated scale; not precluding himself, on any future stage, from examining it, if he should then think proper. He hoped, however, that no legislative measure would be adopted on any resolution which was not unanimously adopted, without a due time being allowed to make it known to the country. Whatever measure was adopted, he hoped would be merely temporary.Mr. Canning
 said, he intended to propose, that whatever measure was adopted should be temporary; and that he should not attempt to carry any measure quickly into a law which was not unanimously received.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his disapprobation of the graduated scale, on the ground that it would afford no sure protection to the farmer.Mr. Western
 insisted that the letter ought to be produced, whether the House considered the person by whom it was sent, him to whom it was addressed, or the subject comprised in it. If it were indeed a private letter, there was still stronger ground in his view for laying it before parliament; because it must be taken to be a clandestine communication, intended, to produce the effect of a public and official interference.Lord A. Hamilton
 seconded the motion.Mr. Bathurst
 contended, that the letter could only be understood to be a public recommendation by the president of the Board of Controul, and that it was meant unduly to influence the court of proprietors. He was informed, he feared too credibly, that the meetings of the Board of Controul had been long suspended; and that all power, patronage, and influence was absorbed by the president. The letter in question was in direct violation of the act of parliament.Mr. Howorth
952951vice versa,s.l.d.;s.l.950s.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.949 thought that no proposition could be more plain than this, that the commercial, agricultural, and manufacturing interests of the country were inseparable; and that all of them, as far as the object could be accomplished, ought
952951vice versa,s.l.d.;s.l.950s.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.949Mr. J. P. Grant
. if we were to wait for what might follow from the letter, gentlemen who opposed, the publication might easily prevent any thing from following. The letter could with no face be said to be private. It had been read at a public meeting; and it appeared from the speech of an hon. baronet (sir M. Wood) that upon him at least it had produced some effect. It would seem, from the language of some hon. gentlemen, that lord Buckinghamshire could at one time resolve himself into a private individual, and at another into president of the Board of Controul. One thing, it appeared pretty plainly, he could not do; and that was, to put the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Wallace) upon the India Company proprietary. It would seem, that no boards were assembled, but that all the business was done either by the president or by the secretary. The practice had been to convert letters, to the publication of which there were objections, into private communications; the House of Commons, however, had sometimes decided that those letters were public; and your authority, Sir, (said Mr. Whitbread, addressing the Speaker.) I make no doubt, will quickly cause the letter in question to be produced. He had heard, though he did not pretend vouch for the fact, that a sheet of blank paper had been put over documents that were to be signed, and that the signature had been affixed at the end of the blank.Mr. Whitbread
927 said, the hon. member, in proving that the letter did not bear the sanction of the board, proved that it was actually private. He denied, that the convening of the board was dispensed with; and said, he never signet any paper without the requisite number of signatures by members of the Board of Controul. The letter, he contended, was strictly private. A doubt had arisen relative to
927Mr. T. Courtenay
926l.l.l.l.925l. rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the production of a copy of a letter from the earl of Buckinghamshire, president of the Board of Controul, to Robert Thornton, esq. chairman of the East India Company, dated the 12th January last, on the subject of continuing the pensions which had been granted during the existence of the late Act; particularly one of 5,000926l.l.l.l.925l.Mr. Creevey
. The letter is in the India-house, and has been printed.Mr. Creevey
, in reply, observed, that he believed, he had laid an ample parliamentary ground for his motion, when he had shewn that the letter was in contravention of a statute passed by the House. As for the Board of Controul, the places of most of the commissioners were mere sinecures: while he was secretary to it for fourteen months, not one meeting had been held for purposes of deliberation, and he had understood and believed that for 22 year previous the same neglect had been exhibited. The hon. gentleman opposite had been long, longer than any man in parliament, in the enjoyment of one of these sinecures; and Mr. Creevey wished to know whether he had ever voted at any board when any subject for deliberation had been discussed?Mr. Creevey
 expressed his astonishment: he would venture to say, that he had never voted more than once on such an occasion.Mr. Creevey
. It is my object that nothing may be done in consequence of it.Mr. Creevey
953s.s.; expressed his complete and unshaken conviction, that if the subject were left to itself, the country would be placed entirely out of danger with respect to it. It was strange, that although it was generally admitted in theory, that all legislative interference in matters of food and commerce was pernicious, yet this maxim seemed invariably to be laid aside, as something too good for practice. The committee ought to follow the example of Mr. Pitt, who did all he could to set the trade of the country free from restrictions; and that with a view not only to relieve our own commercial system, but to introduce the same liberal spirit into the commercial system of other nations. One great tendency of this enlightened policy was, to secure the blessings of peace; as it was well known in history that nothing had more effectually fomented war, than those petty jealousies and quarrels which had arisen from the commercial regulations of different states. Unless the agricultural interest should show a sound reason for departing from this principle (which he contended they had not hitherto done), it ought to be tenaciously adhered to. As it was, it was proved by an official document, that at the present moment grain could not be imported from the Baltic at a lower price than 78953s.s.;Mr. Frankland Lewis
 observed that, upon recollection, he could not say that he had voted even once in his life at a board (a laugh); but he had given in his opinion. He remembered one board, however, when there was a vast deal of discussion, but nothing was done. The established practice was, to circulate the papers which they had to consider (and which were very volummous), and take the opinion of each member in writing.Mr. Wallace
 replied, without hesitation, that he had.Mr. Wallace
 was of opinion, that no fair parliamentary ground had been stated for the publication of the paper in question, and that any discussion at present would be as premature as it was unprecedented. The letter was of a private nature, merely suggesting the propriety of taking certain matters into consideration. The president could only act officially with the Board of Control, and not with the court of directors; and the letter could impose no duty either upon the directors or upon the proprietors. The hon. gentleman, however, seemed to regard the letter somewhat in the light of a message from the throne, upon which it was incumbent to come to some resolution. That the court of proprietors should be anxious to testify their sense of the merits of the late lord Melville, could be matter of surprise to none who were acquainted with the important services he had rendered to the East India Company.Mr. Wallace
s.l. approved of the proposition of his right hon. friend (Mr. Foster), in preference to the graduated scale; but thought 5s.l.Mr. D. Giddy
s.s.s.954 argued at considerable length to prove that it would not be easy to make this an exporting country, by reverting to the system of our ancestors. The increased population of the country had, he believed, compelled our agriculturists to cultivate land that our ancestors would have rejected. It had been truly said by a right hon. gentleman, that the protecting price would not be the price at which corn would be sold in the home market. Experience, and the evidence of
s.s.s.954Mr. Huskisson
930, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to punish the crime of Child Stealing, observed, that it was singular, that this offence, though there was none of greater enormity, was not at all punished by the existing law, unless in those cases where the person stealing a child could be convicted of stealing its clothes. It was surely a great blot on the statute book, that a man might steal a child with impunity, though he could not, without punishment, take the shoes from that child. And, he believed, so far was the system carried, that the judge always directed a jury, in cases of this kind, if any doubt were entertained as to the person accused intending merely to steal the child, and not the clothes (that is, intending to commit the greater and not the less offence), that then they must acquit him. There were three different motives for the stealing of children—First, as was most commonly the case, for the sake of the clothes. In that case the party rarely thought it necessary to take the infant far from the place where the theft was committed, and it was allowed to find its way back as well as it could. He recollected a case that happened a few years ago, where a child was stolen from a professional gentleman, who resided in Westminster. That child was stripped, and left under one of the arches of Westminster-bridge, on a snowy and inclement day, when the tide was flowing. From this situation it contrived to extricate itself. It ascended the steps, and caught hold of the legs of a person who happened to be there, and who restored it to its parent. This instance he stated, to shew how hardened those criminals were who addicted themselves to child-stealing. The offender was convicted in that case, because he had stolen the child's clothes, and sentence was passed on him; but, he was sorry to say, he afterwards received a pardon. Another motive for stealing a child was, that it might be reared up as the offspring of another. A case of this, kind occurred a few years ago, and a Mrs. Delow was tried for the offence.—Now, even though the situation
930Mr. W. Smith
 agreed to the suggestion.Mr. W. Smith
935l. said, that, the hon. baronet having stated, that a sum of money, amounting to 30,000935l.Sir H. Parnell
943 rose to endeavour to prove that the accusations preferred against him as chairman of the committee on the corn trade, by a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) were not well founded. He hoped he should also be able to show to the House, that the right hon. gentleman had himself fallen into some very great mistakes. The Report of the Committee had been described by the right hon. gentleman, in the pamphlet which he had published under the title of his speech, as taking a very superficial view of the subject. This he denied. The Report contained the average prices of corn for 146 years; a view of the laws relating to the subject for 150 years; and an account of the documents respecting imports and exports for 117 years. In the speech which the right hon. gentleman had published, there was something which he (sir H. Parnell) must take the liberty to say, had not been said by the right hon. gentleman in the House. In the House, the right hon. gentleman had said, that the committee had taken their prices from Eton College records; but in his publication, though he admitted that they had correctly taken them from the Eton records, he maintained that the deductions drawn from those records were not correctly made, [see p. 675.] The right hon. gent. then, gave a statement of what the prices should have been; and here he committed a very great error. In taking the prices from the Eton College records, as the prices were marked in them from the finest grain in the market, it was necessary to deduct from the price on the records two-ninths altogether. Whereas, the right hon. gentleman had only deducted one-ninth. The right hon. gentleman also accused the committee of being in error as to the tables given in the Report. The fact was, that these tables had been taken from the work of Mr. Chalmers, whose accuracy even the right hon. gentleman had admitted. Another accusation was, that the committee had only referred to seven of the acts of parliament on the subject of the corn trade; whereas, in truth, they referred to nine of these acts. In his whole speech, the right hon. gentleman had not been, able to shew that there was any act of parliament of importance on the subject which had not been referred to by the committee.
943Sir H. Parnell
938 wished to observe, that Mr. Kenny's reason for refusing to state whence he derived the funds for commencing the establishment, was because he conceived that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) was not altogether well entitled to catechise him on his private affairs. As a British subject, he had a right to set up the institution, and to proceed as he thought proper, provided he did nothing which appeared dangerous to the state. He willingly answered every question which was at all connected with the public interest; but when the right hon. gentleman went so far as to inquire into the means by which he made the
938Sir H. Parnell
 continued, by observing that the statements of the right hon. gentleman were absolutely erroneous; and that he had failed, in every instance, in fixing any inaccuracy upon the labours of the committee. He contended, that no committee had ever taken more pains to produce a well-digested and correct Report.Sir H. Parnell
934933932l.l. rose, in pursuance of a notice he had formerly given, to move for certain papers which tended to elucidate particular points of discipline in the Catholic church. He should be sorry to bring any thing under the consideration of the House, that could lead to a discussion on the Catholic claims; if certain circumstances, which had recently occurred in the sister kingdom, had not, in some measure, rendered such a course necessary. The observations, however, which he intended to make, should only be with reference to the papers for which he was about to move. Gentlemen would recollect, that, in the course of the last session, he moved for a variety of documents, all of which were not printed. They contained information with respect to the discipline of the Catholic church on the continent, as well as in Canada, Malta, and other places connected with his Majesty's dominions. One of the papers he moved for at that time was not printed; and he should now move that it be printed, because it tended to shew the code of regulations which was necessary on two great points; first, with respect to the interference of the crown in the appointment of Roman Catholic bishops in the united kingdom; and next, as to the supervision of such rescripts as might be received from Rome, by any person in Great Britain or Ireland. There was another part of this paper, which related to matter of a graver nature—and, reflecting on what had occurred in the sister kingdom, he thought it necessary to make a few observations on the subject to which it referred; namely, the society of Jesuits. Gentlemen would call to mind what had fallen from him, on a former occasion, with reference to this very subject. A doubt was, he believed, at that time entertained, as to the existence of the sect of Jesuits; but that doubt no longer existed. Now, it had come to his knowledge, that nearly 30,000934933932l.l.Sir John Cox Hippisley
939 contended, that the property of the Jesuits had been confiscated in Canada by the order of the Canadian government, and that this property had
939Sir J. C. Hippisley
 fully concurred with the last speaker. Though he himself had never received any personal favour from the late lord Melville; yet so highly did he estimate his services to the East India Company, that, if no other gentleman should bring forward a proposition upon the subject, he himself should, in the court of proprietors, move for a further remuneration to the late lord Melville.Sir Mark Wood
 rose to order; and observed, that if the hon. baronet went on attacking the pamphlet, they would have an hour's reply from the right hon. gentleman in defence of it. [A laugh.] Besides, it was taking the House unfairly; as many members had comedown expecting the amendment of an hon. member to be proposed.Sir M. Wood
 said, he should support the graduated scale, not as the best measure possible, but the best which it was probable would be carried.Sir J. Newport
941940 expressed his conviction, that the most persuasive arguments had been adduced to shew that it was the policy of this country to guard its home agriculture by providing against the free import of foreign corn. If it were asked, whether it was necessary to alter the arrangements of 1804, or provide any additional
941940Sir J. Newport
 said, the property was enjoyed by the individual he alluded to until the very last moment of his life.Sir J. Newport
 denied that the property, of the Jesuits in Canada was confiscated. They were prevented from professing any more persons in that country—but they were allowed to enjoy then property as long as they existed. And it was a remarkable fact, that one of them, who survived all the others, possessed the whole of the property for a considerable time.Sir J. Newport
937 said, that, in the year 1806 or 7 (he could not exactly state which), a communication was made to him, that the present archbishop of Dublin had refused to licence an individual who was then about to establish a seminary. His grace did not refuse from any personal feeling, for he was perfectly acquainted
937Sir John Newport
 agreed with the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Foster) in his objection to a graduated scale.Lord Milton
 reported from the committee of the whole House, on the re-committed Report from the committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider of the motion made upon the 2nd instant, that it is expedient that the exportation of corn, grain, meal, malt, and flour, from any part of the United Kingdom, should be permitted at all times without the payment of any duty, and without receiving any bounty whatever, the Resolution they had directed him to report to the House; and which was as follows:Mr. Gordon
 moved, that the House should adopt the Resolution.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the present discussion must have removed many misapprehensions on the subject. He merely wished to say a few words in favour of the growers of corn, who had a great claim on the indulgence of the House. All he wished was, that the farmer should have a reasonable profit after the payment of rent and taxes; but this would be impossible, if foreigners were allowed an unrestrained competition with him in the home market. While the trade in every other commodity was restricted, it would be unsafe for that in corn to be free.Mr. Thompson
 moved for leave to bring in a Bill in conformity to the Resolution. In answer to a question of lord Milton, he said, that he was undetermined whether he should propose three or five years, for the period of the Bill. Three years he thought the shortest term which could enable the country to experience the effects of the measure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that another committee ought immediately to be appointed. A great deal of matter had fallen from several gentlemen in the course of last night, which was well deserving of consideration. A great many accounts were still wanted; and they ought also to have the oral testimony of those persons who were best acquainted with the state of the corn trade in this country. They were ignorant of the state of the import trade at this moment; and they ought to have the accounts brought up to the latest time; that is, from January to April. He conceived that it would be best to have a select committee appointed. By the employment of due diligence, in the course of a fortnight the committee might actually be enabled to lay before the House much valuable matter, without which it would neither be honourable for themselves, nor safe for the country, to proceed further in the present subject.Mr. Bankes
965 thought the House ought to have all possible information on the subject now before them. Within these few days, great speculations in corn had been made; on the certainty, that if this measure should be adopted, a great
965General Gascoyne
s.s.s.s.;s.964s., said, the hon. baronet knew very well that the principle of the Report obtained his approbation in the committee; but the Report had been so altered from what he thought to be the understanding of the committee, that he could not agree to it without farther enquiry. It was his opinion, that the sum to be fixed by them ought not to go beyond 80s.s.s.s.;s.964s.,Mr. Alderman Atkins
 said, it would be necessary for him to make a great deal more inquiry into this subject, before, in the present circumstances of the country, be could come to any determination upon it. He considered the proposition as totally inapplicable to this country. It was as much the interest of land-owners that there should be an abundant supply of corn at a moderate rate to the people, as it was the interest of the people themselves. He allowed, that it was necessary rents should rise in proportion to the expence of living; but if other things fell, he saw no reason why rents ought not to fall also, when land was let too high. In Ireland and Scotland, where land was let a great deal too high, nothing but the adoption of a proposition like that now before the House could keep them from falling. He merely took this opportunity of saying a few words, that he might not be pledged to any system, unless he saw his way much clearer than he did at present.Mr. Calcraft
 had no doubt of the ability of this country to maintain its own inhabitants, when he considered the extent of land still uncultivated. In his opinion, the leading features of the Report were incontrovertible.Mr. Pole Carew
966pro forma, stated, that, from a reconsideration of the clauses, it was wished that this commitment should only be 966pro forma,Mr. D. Giddy
 rose merely with a view to notice the observation which had fallen from the hon. gentleman who spoke last, regarding the speculations in corn. It was quite impossible, in his opinion, for any person not to perceive that, from the supply of grain at present in this country, there was no probability of any rise in price before harvest. This was one reason for his wishing to proceed with the subject at present. There were many persons in the House desirous of defeating the measure; and at the present advanced period of the session he should despair of any report of a committee being laid before the House in any reasonable time to admit of subsequent discussion; and thus agreeing to a select committee would be the same thing as putting off the measure altogether to another session.Mr. Huskisson
 congratulated the hon. member on the circumstances of his constituents having so implicitly followed his advice. He understood that the hon. gentleman had thought proper to write a letter to his constituents, informing them that there was a combination between the Irish members and the landed interest of the House, to bring in a Bill for the regulation of the price of corn, which would have a necessary tendency to enhance that price, and advising them to petition against the Bill. It would seem, therefore, that they had lost no time in following the advice of their representative, by subscribing and sending up the petition to him.Mr. Western
 deprecated all enquiry into the communications between members and their constituents. Had the hon. gentleman entertained the opinions of the right hon. gentleman below him, he would have done wrong in writing as he did to his constituents; but with his sentiments he had acted properly in writing to them. As to what had been said about the Bill not being before the House, the report of the committee of the former year was before the House, and it was notorious that a Bill was about to be brought in by the hon. baronet. An alarm had been then taken by many parts of the country; and if he thought the alarm justifiable, he did right in calling the attention of his constituents to the measure.Mr. C. W. Wynn
967 observed, that the hon. member ought to have known what the
967Mr. Protheroe
968 begged the hon. baronet, as well as the member for Essex, would take the trouble to make themselves masters of the expressions he had actually made use of, and not impute to him language which he had never held. He had never said that the Irish members and the landed interest were combined together; but merely, that the union of these two interests would, in his opinion, cause the measure to be carried. Viewing, the measure in the same light as he did last
968Mr. Protheroe
 did not think himself obliged to consult any person in the House about his duty. If his communication had been premature, that of many other members had been more premature. [Here the Speaker informed the hon. member that the conduct of any other member could not be brought forward by him.] An hon. member, adverting to his conduct, had cautioned the House against being influenced by clamour out of doors. He trusted, that he should always be equally on his guard against any clamour in that House. [The Speaker here recommended to the hon. gentleman to confine himself within the limits of the narrowest defence of his own conduct.] Mr. Protheroe concluded by observing, that he perfectly well knew of this measure last year, and that it was only then postponed for want of due time.Mr. Protheroe
 could not help feeling that the hon. gentleman had been rather too harshly treated by the gentlemen on the other side of the question. The hon. baronet, and those who agreed in opinion with him, not contented with schooling their opponents as to the mode in which they ought to state their arguments to the House, had also thought proper to go a step farther, and prescribe to them the manner in which they ought to correspond with their constituents. The conduct of the hon. member for Bristol had, in his opinion, been that of an honourable and public spirited member of parliament. Nothing could be more beneficial, than the existence of a free and constant intercourse and communication between a representative and his constituents. Thinking as the hon. member did, even if he had advised his constituents to petition against the measure, it would have been good and wholesome advice: nothing could be better judged, when the minds of men were heated on the subject of any measure, than to advise them to state their sentiments to parliament, and to leave it to the wisdom of parliament to do with it as might be deemed most advisable for the general interest.Mr. Horner
 could not forbear saying a few words in favour of the petition of his constituents, to whose interests the passing of the Bill before the House would be a serious injury. He hoped that the new measure would at least be postponed till the next session; as there was not yet that strong necessity which alone could authorise its adoption.Mr. Hart Davis
969 remembered having seen the letter of the hon. gentleman in the public news-papers. It must have been written before the hon. baronet had brought forward his Resolutions. If the hon. member had taken a little more time before he wrote the letter, it would in his opinion have been better, in a matter of such delicacy as that, of the corn-laws. That it was written before the Resolutions were brought forward, was obvious from the hand-bill, which called the inhabitants of Bristol to petition against the Bill of sir Henry Parnell, the object of which was to raise the price of bread. Such a statement as this would very naturally induce the people to petition against any measure. The fact was, that there was no Bill of sir Henry Parnell at the time before the House. A Bill had lately been brought in by the Chancellor of the Exchequer allowing at all times the free exportation of grain; but as yet there was no other Bill before the House. He was as sincere in his wish that the consumer should be pro-
969Mr. Huskisson
 said, he hoped this second letter would make as deep an impression on the minds of his constituents as the former evidently bad done. In his first letter the hon. member had said that the Irish members and the landed interest had combined together for the purpose of keeping up their rents. (No, no, from Mr. Protheroe.) Then if he had not used the word "rents," he had employed that of "interests." Such expressions could not fail to excite the passions of the people against the measure. For himself, he could only say, that in bringing forward the measure, he had never had the remotest idea of raising the price of corn. He believed that the effect of the proposed regulations would be, to make the price more steady, which would be no less a benefit to the consumer than to the grower.Sir Henry Parnell
 thought that a more serious charge could not be brought against any minister, than that he had misapplied and abused the powers vested in him by the Alien Act, and that it well merited further inquiry. There was undoubtedly great hardship in the case of Mr. De Berenger: he was not allowed the means of making his own defence; and by means of his confinement witnesses were intruded upon him to identify his person, and he was thus compelled to supply testimony to his adversaries.Mr. Abercrombie
 observed, that undoubtedly credit could not be refused to the statement that Mr. Addington had made; but, under the circumstances, it was requiring a great deal of the House. He wished that a select committee should be appointed, to inquire into this case, as well as into the cause of the continued detention of Mr. Colville, in Coldbath-fields prison.Sir F. Burdett
 remarlied upon the confusion that seemed to exist between the powers given by the Alien Act, and the circumstances of the existing prosecution against Mr. De Berenger, which might have led to the inconveniencies that were now the subject of complaint. It seemed that there was no authority for detaining De Berenger's money; and when it was afterwards restored, not only the amount, but the very identical money, ought to have been returned, that it might not be employed against him on the trial. The subject deserved further investigation: and, as points of importance and delicacy might be involved, it could be conducted in any way ministers should think most expedient.Mr. Ponsonby
978 adverted to the application which had been made to him by the defendants, to become their advocate; which he had refused, thinking, that as a servant of the public, and as a member of parliament, it might occasion embarrassment, if not a collision of his duties: in the exercise of the same discretion, he had refused likewise to conduct the prosecution. With regard to the facts of this case, it appeared, that at the time Mr. De Berenger was arrested under the warrant of the secretary of state, no charge had been brought against him regarding the fraud on the Stock Exchange; and after the bill was found, he was treated exactly like any other alien, on the responsibility of the secretary of state. Much had been said regarding the taking of the clothes and money of Mr. De Berenger; but the House must be aware, that in cases of felony the magistrate had a right by law to detain them for the purposes of the future trial; he admitted, however, that the charge against Mr. De Berenger was only for a misdemeanour, and upon that an important distinction might perhaps be founded. The detention in this case was not the act of the secretary of state; the property of the prisoner had been detained by the alien messengers; and if they had exceeded their powers, they were unquestionably responsible. He was willing to allow, that if unwelcome visitors were intruded upon Mr. De Berenger, it was unjustifiable, and the door might be closed upon them; but he did not apprehend, that the secretary of state had issued an order to compel Mr. De Berenger to see strangers; though possibly he might, to distinguish this case from what of treason (where no persons
978The Attorney General
979 said, that under the Alien Act an absolute power had been given to the Secretary of State to take individuals into custody, of which he had availed himself in the case of Mr. De Berenger. During that detention, this person was proceeded against by some individual for an alleged misdemeanor. In
979The Solicitor General
980 observed, that, notwithstanding all that had been said, it ap-
980Mr. C. W. Wynn
 never heard a more ingenuous statement made in his life by any gentleman, than that with which they had just been favoured; and he assured the right hon. gentleman, that he felt obliged to him for his candour.—(A laugh.)—He was not disposed to press the question to an immediate decision, and therefore he would propose, that the motion should be adjourned till Monday or Tuesday.Mr. Ponsonby
l.l. moved the order of the day for taking into further consideration the Resolution for granting an annuity of 2,000l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would put it to the House to decide, whether, as there was not sufficient evidence to proceed upon, it would not be infinitely better to defer the farther consideration of the entire subject till another year; and that a committee should be appointed for the express purpose of obtaining full evidence.Mr. Rose
 wished the House to consider the time at which the proposition for the new committee (that proposed by Mr. Bankes) was made. In consequence of the report of last year, two Bills were now before the House; and having made this progress, it is now proposed to have a new committee to do the whole work over again. Why was not the necessity for this committee seen before? The enquiries that might be made by it could only be temporary; and when they were made, what ground could there then be to legislate upon? The effect would be, that the enquiry would be made on circumstances that would perpetually vary, and thus a new committee of investigation would be necessary every year. He did not think that any thing further was requisite to enable the House to proceed. If ever it intended to legislate, the late decision, in the proportion of five to one, was sufficient authority to enable it to do so.Mr. Peel
 certainly thought, that on a part of the subject the House had not obtained sufficient information. In his opinion, the House would disgrace itself by proceeding so far as it had done, and not going farther. But without proper information we should still be left in uncertainty as to the general average, and therefore he preferred the graduated scale. The delay of a year would have a considerable, effect in the way of information; for little could be obtained before, respecting the foreign trade; but as far as it went, what had been obtained was satisfactory. On the whole, he was disposed to support the motion for the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
996 was of opinion, that the committee would be perfectly useless. It would give an opportunity to the constituents to get ready petitions ten times
996Sir John Sebright
 was against the committee; as, in his opinion, all necessary, information had been obtained.Mr. Daly
 replied to the remarks of Mr. Huskisson. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had, in his opinion, been most unfairly attacked, accused as he had been of tergiversation, while he had taken the most discreet, just, and sound, though certainly not the most popular part, throughout the whole discussion. It was agreed on all sides, that some protection was necessary to the British grower; and it would be a great misfortune if the proceedings were to be suspended now, while so much alarm prevailed.Mr. Canning
990 said, that this was, of course, a perfectly satisfactory reason for his absence.990The Speaker
 thought it his duty to notice, that this Petition was presented by only one of the sheriffs. He had no doubt that a satisfactory reason could be assigned to the House for the non-attendance of the either, as the form required.The Speaker
 added, that he wished for no disclosure of state secrets, with which the right hon. gentleman always appeared so big; he only asked, at what time the suspicion arose against Mr. De Berenger?Lord A. Hamilton
 asked, at what time the charge against Mr. De. Berenger, for which he was arrested under the Alien Act, had arisen?Lord A. Hamilton
, unless he could obtain further information, would vote against the measure altogether. At present, he was for the committee.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
 was in favour of the committee, to a limited extent. He attributed the clamour which prevailed, to the subject not having been brought forward at an earlier period of the session.Mr. Bathurst
 replied, that the House, if it deemed fit, might order an investigation of the whole grounds of his confinement; but he would not consent to fritter away the subject, by giving answers to questions that might lead to improper disclosures.Mr. Bathurst
976 said, that unless the House, in the exertion of its paramount authority, chose to order a particular inquiry which in a matter of such delicacy
976Mr. Bathurst
986 said, he did not consider that any ground had been stated, which could warrant the House in adopting the motion of the hon. gentleman; and with that feeling he thought the best mode of disposing of the question, would be to move, that the House should proceed to the orders of the day.—As to the conduct of the Secretary of State, which had been arraigned on this occasion, he considered it perfectly justifiable; and, for his own part, if he were acting as a magistrate, he should think if he gave up the identical articles of property claimed by Mr. Berenger, which might, he did not say would; lead to his conviction, he should be guilty of a dereliction of his public duty, as adopting a line of conduct which would tend to defeat the ends of justice. It appeared, that they were called upon to defend themselves, not on account of the arrest of Berenger, but because it was deemed necessary to take from him certain articles. This was a very delicate point to entertain. He did not mean to say, that the practice of the Secretary of State's office should not be enquired into; but he deprecated a hasty and precipitate decision. The question did not stand on the fact of Berenger being in a peculiar situation—it was not be argued on that ground. What they were to enquire was, whether, under a general position, the Secretary of State had not a right; with reference to the safety of the country, to seize those papers? If it were the practice of the office, under the eye of parliament, to detain the papers of suspected individuals, then there arose a presumption, that such a proceeding was not an abuse of power, but a fair exercise of it. The Secretary of State did not assume this power merely from the situation which he filled; it was a power, which, in time of war, naturally and necessarily extended over aliens—and he knew, that at the time the Alien Act was introduced, very great doubts existed, whether such an enactment were wanted, to enable the King to send aliens out of his dominions, Now, it
986Mr. Bathurst
 said, there was already a motion and amendment before the House; he wished a decision to take place on these. If the suggestion of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Ponsonby) were adopted, he would not be placed in so favourable a situation on Monday, as that in which he at present stood.Mr. Bathurst
 persevered in his amendment, and the gallery was cleared for a division. The House did not, however, divide—and, as we understood, the renewal of the discussion was fixed for Monday the 23d instant.Mr. Bathurst
995 said, he had never disguised his opinion as to the defective evidence on which the original report was founded. It was almost entirely confined to the agricultural interests of Ireland;
995Mr. Protheroe
987 said, the gentlemen who had spoken against the motion, had given a stronger colour of importance to the debate, than if before had. The right hon. gentleman who last spoke had stated, that the question came before him by surprise! This was one of the most extraordinary circumstances he had ever heard What was the surprise the right hon. gentleman complained of? A transaction well known to the gentlemen opposite was introduced, and their own correspondence was read in their presence, in that House; this was the whole foundation for the statement that they were taken by surprise. Surely the right hon. gentleman (Mr. H. Addington), who was in the office of the Secretary of State, had a right to be acquainted with the case! Certainly they might allow the gentlemen opposite time to prepare their defence; but the House ought not to forget, that the prayer of the petitioner was most urgent—that he prayed for his liberation, in order that he might collect evidence, and facilitate his just defence—so that he might be placed on a level with his co-defendants in the indictment. Undoubtedly there might be a good reason for his detention—but that reason ought
987Mr. Horner
 denied that the object of the proposers of the Bill was to support any combination of landholders; but the House was called on to pay attention to the interests of agriculture. A graduated scale of any sort would not effect the intended purpose, as it would enable the importing merchants to outbid the farmers. He should oppose the motion.Mr. Frederick Douglas
997 explained. He contended
997Mr. Bankes
992 said, the motion which he was about to propose was not brought forward with a view to create any unnecessary delay in the proceedings of the House. The committee for which he intended to move might easily, he conceived, come to a report, within so short a time as not to prevent parliament from adopting measures on the subject of the corn trade, if necessary, this session. He was anxious that the House should be
992Mr. Bankes
l. objected to the creation of peers, if the finances of the country were not competent to furnish them with adequate pensions. Persons so created might, perhaps, for their own lives, be able to support their dignity and independence; but the inevitable consequence must be, that their descendants in some generations must look to the existing government for maintenance and protection.l.Mr. Stuart Wortley
prima facieprima facie988 said, that he had certainly been taken by surprise, because the hon. gentleman (Mr. Whitbread) had stated distinctly, that, unless he (Mr. Addington) or some other gentleman on that side of the House, could give satisfactory answers to his interrogatories, he would probably, at a future day, move for a committee to investigate the transaction. This impressed himself and other hon. members with an idea, that the question would not then be discussed—and many gentlemen had asked him whether there was any necessity for them to stay.—(Laughter, and cries of Hear.)—They were of course anxious to know, whether the debate was likely to come on, as they might wish to take a part in it. The hon. gentleman certainly could not expect, that he should be prepared, on the moment, to answer all his questions. The only notice he had received of the motion from
prima facieprima facie988Mr. H. Addington
 answered, that he imagined the suspicion arose at the time when the warrant was issued, which would appear by the date.Mr. J. H. Addington
975 expressed his thanks to the hon. gentleman for the opportunity he had afforded him of explaining this affair. Without entering into any detailed answer, he would shortly state to the House, that Mr. De Berenger being a registered alien, and having an alien's licence, was arrested by a warrant issued by the secretary of state, in execution of his duty, on a charge quite distinct from the offence for which a bill of indictment had been found against him. On this warrant, having been apprehended and brought up to London, and when the other gentlemen were released, who had found bail under the prosecution, he was detained on the same charge for which he had been originally arrested, and which the hon. gentleman would hardly expect him to state. With regard
975Mr. J. H. Addington
bonâ fide, observed that even in cases of felony he could find no statute which authorised persons to seize or detain the goods of prisoners; but yet if clothes were found with blood on them, in the trunk of a person accused of murder, no one would hesitate to seize them. Supposing the detention of the petitioner in the first instance to have been, bonâ fide,Mr. Lockhart
 thought it highly necessary that the committee should enter into the enquiry.Mr. Finlay
s.s. was against the committee. In contradistinction to what had been said respecting the wealth of farmers, he would assert that these persons in general were in very narrowed circumstances; and in this very year, unless the landlords were very merciful, more distresses would be taken than had been executed during the last 20, years. The average price of land, he contended, notwithstanding the enormous rates at; which piece were sometimes purchased, was not more than 25s.s.Mr. Preston
985con amore,l.984983 then said, that no time should be lost—no period suffered to intervene between the measure which had been taken, and the motion for the appointment of a secret committee; for, otherwise, the unfortunate man who presented the Petition would find a prejudice produced against himself. He alluded to what had been said by the Solicitor General towards the end of his speech—that the motive of Mr. De Berenger was, to obtain the possession of papers that would operate to his conviction. [The Solicitor General being about to leave the House], Mr. W. said he hoped the hon. gentleman, would not leave the House; for he intended to read a letter from the Secretary of State, which would give great reason to believe that the whole object of the Secretary of State was, to further the prosecution of the Stock Exchange. The petitioner did not pray for any particular notes or papers; but to be put in such a state as to enable him to make such exertions for his defence, as he would have been enabled to make before he was taken into custody; and he alleged, that being in confinement, he was not in a state to make, by his agents, the necessary enquiries, as there were witnesses, who were material, known to the petitioner only by person. He should return to the subject, and ask the right hon. gentleman. (Mr. H. Addington) whether he would positively assert that the arrest of the petitioner was not occasioned by, or at all connected with the prosecution of the Stock Exchange? If he would go that length, he should contend, that it was an unwarrantable exertion of the power vested in the crown; and if he went the full length of disavowing all such connection between the two measures, he (Mr. W.) thought he should be able to afford the House grounds to suspect the truth of that disavowal, by some correspondence which he should read. A learned and hon. gentleman had asked, with a tone of sareasm, which with ill grace was employed
985con amore,l.984983Mr. Whitbread
989 observed, that when he originally addressed the House on the petition, he had certainly signified his intention, unless he received a satisfactory explanation on the subject, to move for a committee on a future day. But, in the course of the debate, so much prejudice was apparent—and the arguments of several learned gentlemen appeared so unjust, that he felt himself bound to take the step he had done—But having relieved himself, by the course he pursued, his object was gained, and he would cheerfully agree to adjourn the subject till Monday. Nor did he think that, by such a proceeding, the right hon. gentleman would be placed in a worse situation; for, even where personal charges of maladministration had been made against individuals, the debate had frequently been adjourned, and yet the party accused never found himself in a worse state than before. Two reasons particularly induced him to agree to the adjournment; first, because the right hon. gentleman (Mr. H. Addington) said, if time were
989Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that although the right hon. gentleman might flatter himself that he had given a reply to this petition, the House would feel that, in truth, no satisfactory answer had been given. It was impossible, as matters now stood, to contradict the assertion, that the arrest and confinement of the baron de Berenger originated in a charge totally distinct from the criminal prosecution which had recently been commenced, and the right hon. gentleman must therefore receive full credit for his statement. It was a fact, that Mr. De Berenger had chosen Newgate as the least comfortless place of the two that had been offered him; but there he was molested by the intrusion of strangers who came to inspect his person and obtain evidence; to this charge no answer had been given. It was at least doubtful, whether the extensive powers given to the secretary of state under the Alien Act had not been abused, and that its provisions had been abused and perverted to the worst purposes. Where, however, under the Alien Act or any other statute, could a justification be found for depriving Mr. De Berenger of his money and clothes, some of which were kept from the 19th of April to the 14th of May? What right had the Stock Exchange Committee, a self-elected and self-constituted body, to intrude upon the privacy of any individual, or to pervert the regular course of public justice?Mr. Whitbread
974973972971970 said, he held in his hand a Petition, signed by
974973972971970Mr. Whitbread
s.s. was for the committee. The report of the former one was not such as the House could proceed to legislate upon for the whole kingdom, as it related almost exclusively to Ireland. It might be a deficiency of understanding on his part, but he declared to God he could hot comprehend what the House had done upon that report: and, whether they meant to fix the price at 63s.s.Mr. Broadhead
 stated, that by the Act in question, no farmer, within ten miles of the coast, in the counties of Kent and Sussex, was allowed to remove his wool from the place where it was deposited, without first stating to the proper officer, not only the number of fleeces he had sheared, but the entire weight; under pain of forfeiting three times the value of the Wool so removed. As this was productive of much vexation to the growers of wool in those districts, he wished to place them exactly on a level with persons in other parts of the kingdom, leaving the laws against the exportation of wool in full force—and, for that purpose, he would move for the repeal of so much of the said Act as inflicted the penalties he had mentioned.Mr. Huskisson
 would not hesitate to say, that all those who supported the motion for the committee, did so with a view to defeat the measure altogether The greatest apprehension might well prevail in the country, when it was fact, that, some hundreds of thousands of acres had only been cultivated under the idea of the improbability that foreign corn would be imported: and those who had disbursed their capital on inclosures, would rue the day when they had done so, unless just protection were afforded them. He would vote against going into the committee at all.Mr. Huskisson
993 rose to second the motion; and not in consequence of any newly acquired lights, but in perfect conformity with the opinion he had shortly delivered in one of the early debates on the resolutions. He then had said, and by everything which had since passed he was confirmed in the opinion, that the House was not ripe to decide on the final measure. It was unnecessary, on the present motion, to enter into the general reasonings on the subject at large; it seemed to him enough to induce any gentleman to support the proposition for a committees, that sufficient grounds were not yet laid for an ulterior proceeding. The evidence of the committee of last year was little applicable to present circumstances, and nothing further had been adduced. He approved, therefore, of the committee, even should the inquiry go no further than the honourable mover had proposed, but he approved it still more, in the con-
993Mr. Wm. Smith
991 approved of the principle of not giving too large and extensive pensions, with the peerage: the latter was in itself a great reward. It was not necessary that a man who had raised himself to nobility by his exploits, should live in the same style of splendour as one who had not such exploits to adorn his situating. It was the more advisable to be cautions on this subject, as in every war we might expect that there would be several in
991Mr. W. Smith
 said a few words, coinciding with the Resolution as it was now altered.Sir C. Monck
 did not think that any grounds were offered for the committee. As to the observation, that the farmers could, not be ruined in one year, he could not agree to the truth of it. This was the time in which all the corn was brought to Dantzic for the purpose of exportation; and if the present measure was not adopted, the consequence would be, that there would be such an influx of foreign corn into the market as must have the effect of converting many thousand acres of tillage land in this country into pasture.Sir H. Parnell
982981 observed, that he should not have taken part in the dis
982981Sir James Mackintosh
 stated, that the other sheriff was indisposed.Sir J. Shaw
 hoped that the examination into this subject would not be allowed to rest merely here; but that some grave inquiry would be instituted, in order to ascertain whether it was true, that the powers given by the Alien Act had been perverted and abused for the sake of putting the individual in question under disadvantages that did not, in the ordinary course of law, attend his case. After the solemn assertion of the right hon. gentleman, no man had a right to say that the arrest of Mr. De Berenger had been absolutely occasioned by the prosecution commenced against him; but it was still a question, whether the warrant of the secretary of state had not been exerted with some view to the misdemeanour with which Mr. De Berenger was charged. It would be quite new in law, to say that a man charged with a misdemeanour was liable to be deprived of his papers, money, and clothes, by the magistrate: in this case, it seemed that the papers, money, and clothes, had been taken before the bill was found; and that after that event they were detained for the purposes of the prosecution. In the Alien Act, sir Samuel Romilly knew of no authority to deprive a man of any thing but arms; and the House would do well to recollect the additional circumstance, that the secretary of state was not justified in issuing his warrant for the arrest of an alien, unless the country would be endangered by his escape. It did not appear, that the papers, money, or clothes of Mr. De Berenger had been in the regular custody of any individual, or that they might not have been altered and marked for the purposes of the pending prosecution. At present, there was reason to believe that the warrant of the secretary of state had been employed to further the proceeding in the court of law.Sir S. Romilly
 opposed the committee. It would only occasion useless delay, and give opportunity for raising a clamour against the measure. The House should never suffer clamour of this kind to have the least influence upon their decisions. If he were to write to his constituents, and tell them that they were deeply interested in the success of this measure, and by this means procure meetings and combinations, as had been done in other places, he should be called a seditious man. He admitted, that the attention of the committee was a good deal directed to Ireland, not for the exclusive interest of that country, but to ascertain her capacity to make England independent of foreign countries by her own produce and that of Ireland. He again deprecated the influencing of the passions of the people, who never look beyond momentary gratification, toward future distress.Sir John Newport
 rose to second it. He spoke as follows:—My object, in rising to second the motion of the hon. gentleman, is, to take this opportunity of referring to an assertion made on a former night by his Majesty's Attorney-General, who said that Mr. De Berenger had no other design in requiring the re-delivery of his clothes, money, letters, and papers, than that he might get into his hands evidence that might operate against him, and those who were connected with him, in the prosecution that is now pending. Such an assertion is undoubtedly calculated to prejudice the noble lord who is a party to this prosecution, and myself, in the eyes of the House, in the opinion of the public, and consequently of the jury who are to try the question. I thought it, therefore, my duty to attend on this occasion, to declare, that as far as depends upon the noble lord and myself, it never was, and is not, our wish to keep back any evidence that can possibly be brought forward by the noble Secretary of State, let the mode in which it is obtained be What it may. It is not my intention to take any further part in the debate upon this question; and should the result be a division of the House, I shall feel it my duty to withdraw, without giving any vote on the subject.Mr. Cochrane Johnstone
10031002, without having any particular sympathy with Mr. De Berenger, contended, that it was well known, that there had existed oppressive proceedings under the Alien Act; and that justice had been often denied, under the operation of that Act, to persons who had applied for it. Happily, this Act was soon to expire; and, if it should be renewed, it would be necessary to make great alterations in it; and he hoped that, in doing so, some attention would be paid to the case now before the House. The great intention of the provisions of the Act was, to enable government to ascertain the place of residence of all foreigners. The Act, therefore, gave power to the Secretary, of State to arrest foreigners, but at the same time only under certain circumstances. He had power to prevent the departure of foreigner till any subject that occasioned, suspicion was investigated; or to compel, if necessary, his leaving the country.
10031002Mr. Abercrombie
 thought that a secret committee would not be a good place to try whether the Alien Act had been transgressed in the case before the House: a court of law would be preferable for trying the question. He also conceived, if the seizure of the papers, &c. were illegal, yet that it was proper to employ them in a court of justice; as a man was once tried for forgery, on proofs which had been obtained by robbery. He had, however, much doubt on the subject; from which the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst) might relieve him, if he could state, that a disclosure of the grounds of De Berenger's apprehension to a secret committee, would be injurious.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said, the House was not called upon to deliberate, on the expediency or inexpediency, of the alien laws; but merely, whether, in the present instance, power, had been over-executed. A certain power, was given by law to the Secretary of State, which extended even to the opening of letters, &c.; and those who were best acquainted with the noble lord, must be firmly convinced that such a power was vested in safe and honourable hands. For these reasons, he would vote against the motion, not feeling that any case was made out warranting the interposition of the House.Mr. Bernard
1006 vindicated himself from the charge of endeavouring to mislead, by the statements which he had made on a former discussion, of this subject, or that he had attempted, as was insinuated, to impose the art of a cunning lawyer upon plain country magistrates; for, what he had said he was fully prepared to justify. He denied, upon the high authority of the Secretary of State, that the warrant of that officer against the petitioner was lent, upon
1006The Attorney General
1007 thought the observation of the learned gentleman, as to an investigation of this subject at a future occasion, when no, inconvenience could result from
1007Mr. C. Grant
1008forte defended himself against the charge of applying any sarcasm to the petitioner. Sarcasm was not indeed his habit or his 1008forteThe Solicitor General
 said, he wished to propose a clause by way of ride, which would go to state the Price at which corn should be when allowed to be exported. On this occasion, he would merely ask the hon. baronet opposite, whether this were a fit time to force so important a measure on the consideration of the House, when his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was too indisposed to attend?Mr. Rose
1011s. declared, he would make his solemn protest against it, as one of the most mischievous measures that had ever been brought before that House. We were now about to allow the export of corn, at all times, and under all circumstances; and he was sure that neither the hon. baronet, nor hardly a member of that House, was aware of what they were going to do. He would risk his life, that if the Bill had been postponed, and a committee appointed, such proofs would have been adduced, as would have made them pause instead of hurrying so vital a measure. Were gentlemen aware that on some occasions foreign corn had been imported, and afterwards exported at 151011s.Mr. Rose
1012 expressed his readiness, between that day and Wednesday or Thursday, to consider a proper price at which exportation should cease. It would, he conceived, be a most lamentable thing, if a system which had been acted on for 400 years were put an end to without inquiry
1012Mr. Rose
 said, that, on two different occasions, he had expressed his intention of proposing the clause alluded to; but his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had advised him to defer it. He had done so, under the impression that his right hon. friend was favourable to the clause; but it appeared he had changed his mind, and was hostile to it.Mr. Rose
1013 disapproved of a proposition which gave to the executive the
1013Mr. Western
 was aware of this.—He had no objection to the third reading—but he thought it right to state his opinion, lest, after what had passed, he might be supposed to be favourable to the clause.Mr. Canning
1014 said, that the right hon. gentleman had all along stated himself to be an enemy to the free export of corn; and, however he might attempt to dis-
1014Mr. Ponsonby
 was perfectly satisfied with the Bill as it stood. If, however, it were determined to introduce a clause, prohibiting the exportation of grain when it arrived at a certain price, the only proper way in which that purpose could be effected was, to withdraw the existing Bill altogether, and to introduce a new one. When it arrived in the committee, this new question, as to the price at which exportation should cease, could be properly debated. With respect to the specific proposition of the right hon. gentleman, he would oppose it in every stage. It was much better to leave it to the responsibility of the executive to act, than, by such a provision, to call on them imperatively to interfere.Mr. Canning
 observed, that though he considered the clause perfectly unnecessary, because it professed to bestow a power which already existed, yet, if the adopting it without any amendment would be any consolation to the right hon. gentleman, or any relief to the alarm that had been excited out of doors, he should have no objection to its incorporation with the Bill.Mr. Canning
s. observed, that at Amsterdam wheat was 10s.Mr. Rose
 wished to remind the House, that the question before them was, merely, whether the Bill should be then read the third time?The Speaker
 said, that, as a magistrate, he had been to visit Mr. De Berenger; and was told by the keeper of the prison, that Mr. De Berenger was very particular with respect to the persons whom he saw; that he, however, being a magistrate, might claim admission. I found him (said the hon. alderman) very comfortably lodged, and that improper persons were excluded from his apartment.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
, in explanation, contended, that as an alien he was, generally, under the power of the Secretary of State.Mr. Bathurst
l.,10011000 disclaimed, for himself and for the Attorney-General, any intention to prejudice the minds of any persons on a question of such importance; such an attempt would be the height of injustice at the time proceedings were pending. He congratulated the House, that it was now about to discuss this question in a regular and satisfactory way and contended that the Secretary of State was in this case a mere agent, charged with the execution of a certain duty under the Alien Act, and that in that capacity merely he had caused De Berenger to be arrested. Was it nothing to say, that under many successive administrations only two complaints (both of which were unfounded) had been brought against the individual who was charged with the performance of this duty? If a motion like the present were carried, on such slight grounds as those now urged, what Secretary of State would venture to do a duty for which he was so heavily responsible? This would
l.,10011000Mr. Bathurst
 answered, that he could not rest his opposition to the motion on such a ground.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that the cases, cited by the learned Attorney-General referred to charges of felony, and not to misdemeanour, and therefore were not applicable to the subject under discussion. This subject he could, not, as he before said, hesitate, to consider of peculiar importance; and he trusted that whatever might be the vote of that night, this affair would hereafter be sifted to the bottom, at a time when, no plea of ministerial responsibility, or public inconvenience, could be urged against the disclosure of the reasons upon which the arrest of Mr. DeBerenger was, alleged to have taken place.Mr. Horner
 withdrew his amendment.General Porter
 spoke in favour of a further protraction of the measure; as many members had then left the House, under an understanding that the Bill would not be discussed that evening. He should therefore propose as an amendment, that the third reading of the Bill be postponed ill Thursday next.General Porter
 said, the only question to be decided was, whether this was a case which called on the House to appoint a secret committee to inquire into the conduct of the Secretary of State?—He conceived there was no necessity whatever for such a proceeding.—The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst) had unhesitatingly declared, that the cause of De Berenger's arrest was entirely distinct from the fraud on the Stock Exchange—and he (Mr. Wortley), was inclined to give full credence to his statement. If the House agreed to appoint secret committees on such occasions as this, the consequences would be extremely mischievous—it would operate as a check on the fair exercise of the powers vested in the Secretary of State. Being perfectly satisfied in his own mind, that cogent reasons existed, quite independent of the offence for which De Berenger was indicted, for the measures that had been taken, he would oppose the motion.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 replied in the negative. He did not know that the trunks had been unsealed at all.Mr. H. Addington
 recollected two communications which the Stock Exchange Committee had had with the Secretary of State's office; the first, in which the chairman of that committee requested that certain papers found in the possession of the petitioner should be detained, with a view to the ends of justice; to which an answer was returned in the affirmative. The second, requesting the Secretary of State to undertake the prosecution of the petitioner; to which the answer was in the negative.Mr. H. Addington
1015 would not agree to a free export, with a prohibited import; of grain. Gentlemen might tell him that the latter measure was not before the House; but he contended that it was not possible to divide them. The fact was, that the two Bills ought to go hand in hand together. With respect to the clause then before the House, he was, friendly to it.
1015Alderman Atkins
1016 said, that one powerful reason with him for not agreeing with the clause, was precisely that which induced the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) to support it, because it was perfectly unnecessary. He had another objection also. The clause would not only produce no good effect, but it would produce a very bad effect. It would create fears in the agriculturist, while the object of this measure was to give him confidence; and it would, so far, do away the beneficial tendency of
1016Mr. J. P. Grant
 declared, that although he felt no sympathy for Mr. De Berenger, yet, aware that if the violation of the law and personal liberty, were tolerated with regard to the worst man in society, the precedent might be acted upon towards the very best, he thought it his duty to vote for the motion. By the opponents, of the motion an apprehension was stated, that public inconvenience might result from the appointment of the proposed committee; but it appeared, that in the only instance quoted of a similar committee, no inconvenience whatever had occurred; therefore the apprehension expressed was not warranted by any experience. He concluded with expressing his astonishment at the professed inability of the right Hon. gentleman (Mr. Addington) to answer the questions put to him, respecting the nature of the communications between the Secretary of State and the committee of the Stock Exchange; as the right hon. gentleman ought not to be ignorant of the transactions of the office with which he was officially connected.Mr. Barham
 thought it appeared from the circumstances of the case, that Mr. De Berenger had been seized on account of his having been supposed to have hoaxed a body of professed hoaxers—the Stock Exchange Committee.—M. Talleyrand, the present minister of France, had been subjected to the operation of this same Alien Act; with this difference, that the government, by sending him out of the country, merely afforded him means to escape from his creditors here. He wished to know, whether a message had not been sent to the Stock Exchange Committee as soon as the seals were taken off De Berenger's trunks that they might come to examine them?Mr. P. Moore
1009 replied. He said, that a great deal of responsibility had been cast upon him on this occasion. When he was first asked, whether he thought this was a case for a motion to be made in parliament, he answered, that certainly it was not; but that if any petition was drawn up couched in decent language, and complaining of any real grievance; he should have no objection to presenting it. For
1009Mr. Whitbread
999998 rose, in pursuance of his notice, for the purpose of moving for the appointment of a Secret Committee, to enquire into the circumstances attending the confinement of C. R. Baron De Berenger on the felons' side of Newgate. For the information of such members as were not present on a former night, he recapitulated the various grounds then urged for complying with the motion; and noticed the single objection made to it, that the under Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. H. Addington) had solemnly asserted, that Mr. De Berenger was arrested under the authority, given by the Alien Act, on charges and suspicions totally distinct from any fraudulent transactions with the Stock Exchange Without such an asseveration, under the circumstances, the House would not have hesitated a moment in deciding that the detention was only a part of the prosecution now pending; and that the Secretary of State, having abused the high powers vested in him by the statute, had been guilty of a high crime and misdemeanour. In addition to the circumstances of this case which came out on a former night, Mr. Whitbread stated, that when the prisoner was taken into custody by Wood, the alien messenger, with the assistance of the magistrates of Edinburgh, the warrant was not shewn to Mr. De Berenger, nor was any other cause assigned for his apprehension, than that he was taken in consequence of a supposed connection with the frauds on the Stock Exchange. He had been sent to Newgate by his own choice, because he experienced better treatment there than at the house of the messenger, where he had not been permitted to see any individual, not
999998Mr. Whitbread
s.s.; stated, that in France wheat was sold for 38s.s.;Mr. Lushington
s.s. said, that, on the general question, much misapprehension had taken place. He was sure that it was the great wish of those who supported the measure, to have an abundance of grain in the country, at the cheapest possible price. Now, unless agriculture were protected, this could not permanently be the situation of our markets. If they were perfectly sure that the country would always enjoy peace, then he would leave grain open, like any other article. But what would be the consequence if the state of agriculture were disturbed by admitting grain into our markets at 60s.s.Mr. Lushington
 said, if the right hon. gentleman would propose a positive sum, at which exportation should cease, instead of giving a discretionary power to the executive to interfere when they thought proper, he would vote for it. If the right hon. gentleman were not prepared with such a clause at that moment, he should be sorry that those who supported the Bill should not agree to a postponement of the motion, till he had considered the subject. It would be most satisfactory to the country to see that they were thus proceeding with all the gravity and deliberation that should characterise a British senate.Mr. Brand
 was for restricting the exportation of corn within certain limits. In a time of impending famine, he thought it ought not to be allowed; and if the right hon. gentleman had proposed to fix a price above which it ought not to be exported, his amendment would have had his support.Mr. Davies Giddy
1005 expressed his opinion, that if there were no coincidence between the arrest of the petitioner, and the offence respecting the Stock Exchange, no notice
1005Mr. Wilberforce
s. replied, that, admitting the statement of the right hon. gentleman to be correct, it did not invalidate his argument. It would cost 10 or 15s.Sir C. Monck
 thought the belt security against excess of exportation, would be found in the comparative lowness of price in the foreign market.Sir C. Monck
pro forma, was surprised that the right hon. gentleman had not stated his intention of moving this clause at an earlier stage of the Bill. It was most extraordinary, that he had permitted it to go through the committee, without making known his intention; and now, on the third reading, he came forward with his opposition. As to the observation of the hon. general who had moved the amendment, it did not apply to the Bill then before the House, which had been frequently discussed—but to the Bill for regulating the importation of grain, which had gone through a committee, pro forma,Sir H. Parnell
 interrupted the right hon. gentleman to say, that he certainly should force on the question; conceiving that the presence or the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have no particular influence on the Bill in its present stage.Sir H. Parnell
 said, the arguments of those who opposed the Bill went to prove, that this country could not compete with the foreign markets in the article of grain. If this were the case, no mischief could ensue from it, as none would be exported. But, looking to Ireland, it was of very great importance; since, from that country, he had no doubt, very large exports would be made, to the infinite benefit of her agriculture.Sir H. Parnell
 had no conception that the Secretary of State could seize a person's papers under the Alien Act. It was to be recollected, however, that at the time of passing the Alien Act, there were opinions prevailing in France which in this country were considered as very dangerous to the public peace and safety; and for that reason it was thought advisable to give the Secretary of State the power of sending suspicious foreigners out of the country; or, if they could not be sent out, at least to keep them in custody. This might be done on anonymous information; but in no case unless the charge was of a treasonable nature. No person was to be sent out of the country for any transaction unconnected with the state. It appeared to him, that the Secretary of State had no power to seize the papers of an individual, unless there was some charge of a treasonable nature; not by any means for the purpose of assisting in any private prosecution.Sir S. Romilly
 observed, that from the appointment of the committee to inquire into Colville's case, three years ago, no inconvenience had arisen. His Majesty's ministers, therefore, if they were conscious of their own rectitude, ought to have satisfied the House in this case, in which it was more than suspected that the Alien Act had been transgressed. It was too much, to trust implicitly a power so liable to abuse as that of the Alien Act, to any body of men.Sir J. Newport
 observed, that the same objections had been made, and the same precaution proposed, when the Corn Exportation Bill had been introduced in Ireland. But he had then suggested (what he thought would apply equally in the present instance), that the best course would be for the executive government to interfere to stop the exportation of corn, in any case of extreme necessity, and afterwards to come to parliament for indemnity. Before this method was adopted, and while it was left at the discretion of the privy council to suspend the operation of the law, a prohibition was issued every two or three years. As to what the last speaker had said of the purity of his motives in the side of the question which he espoused, he thought it was, to say the least, invidious. The motives of every gentleman were to be supposed to be public, and their views equally directed to the general good.Sir John Newport
, adverting to the observation of the hon. gentleman (Mr. C. Grant), expressed a wish to know from some one who could give a satisfactory pledge upon the subject, whether ministers would object to an enquiry as to the transaction at a future period; because such a pledge would less dispose him to press the present, motion. For this pledge he was the more anxious, because he thought the affair under discussion involved in great mystery, and deserving of investigation.Lord Milton
 saw no reason why the high bailiff should be re-imbursed by the public. He understood that he had given a considerable sum for his place, and he believed had got a very hard bargain; but he could not see why the public should pay for the misconstruction of an act of parliament, in bringing an action against a person as a candidate, who really was not a candidate. But though he could not recover against him, he might recover against the other two, who were candidates. As such, he should object to the motion.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 would not lose any opportunity of expressing his sentiments on the precipitation with which the House had acted. The measure was not even understood by members of the House. They were proceeding without any inquiry. He would not talk of the report of last year. It was such a one as ought not to be proceeded in, even in the matter of a decision on a turnpike road. No inconvenience could result from the postponement of the decision; while, by deciding now, the country would be exposed to an unnecessary trial. If a proper inquiry was only instituted, he was convinced that no two sensible men would differ in their opinion of the subject; because, justly considered, the agricultural and commercial interests were identified.Mr. Rose
 said, that an extraordinary degree of feeling had been excited in the manufacturing districts by this measure; the consequences of which applied to every man, woman, and child in the kingdom. The safest course appeared to be delay, which might remove many great errors in public feeling. He admitted, that it was the interest of our manufacturers to promote the agricultural interests in Ireland, as Ireland was their best customer.Mr. J. Smith
 said, he supposed the Report would be re-committed; but he wished the intended proceeding to be distinctly understood.The Speaker
 said, it was the usual course to permit the proposal of clauses in such cases.Mr. Bathurst
1020 said, the misconstruction was in the legislature who passed the Act, and had unfortunately compelled the high bailiff under a penalty, to erect hustings, &c. and to look to the candidates for reimbursement. Now it turned out, that a
1020Mr. Bathurst
 approved of a committee; and observed, that it was not necessary the committee should give an opinion on the question of remuneration, but on the whole of the case.Mr. Harvey
 hoped, that whether any alteration were, or were not proposed, the Report would be recommitted, for the purpose of being more fully discussed.Mr. Horner
1024 said, that the complaint was, not that the subject had not been enough debated, but that it had not been sufficiently inquired into. In the report of the committee there was no information. Not a single practical corn-dealer had been examined, in order to afford such information
1024Mr. Horner
 contended, that the case of Southwark was very different, as the expence ought to fall on those who were really the candidates. He was against the motion.Mr. Bankes
1018 said, that it was not his intention to move for any further discussion on the subject of the claims of the Catholics, under the present circumstances. In this, he begged to be understood as expressing
1018Mr. Grattan
1021 took the opportunity (without entering at large into the question) to declare, that in the present state
1021Mr. H. Lascelles
 was of opinion, that as the legislature had compelled the high bailiff under a penalty to incur certain expences, and had, from a defeat in its enactment, prevented him from recovering against the candidate, as it professed to do, the House ought to agree to a committee. He observed, that a similar circumstance had taken place at the last Southwark election; where, on account of one of the candidates refusing to pay a part, the others also had refused to pay the whole expence.Mr. H. Thornton
 thought it would be acting on a wrong principle, and would introduce a bad precedent, to reimburse the high bailiff's expences, and therefore should vote against it.Mr. Wrottesley
 wished to know what proceeding would then be taken on it.Alderman Atkins
 expressed his intention of proposing a clause then, unless permitted in the subsequent stage.Alderman Atkins
 said, it was a part of the duty of the returning officer to prevent confusion by the erection of hustings, and by making other arrangements. If he was not indemnified either by the House or by the candidates, the consequence would be, that such arrangements would be neglected, and riot and confusion would be the consequence.Mr. Lockhart
l., stated the great hardship and injury which the high bailiff of Westminster had sustained, in consequence of not being able to recover the expences of erecting hustings, at Covent-garden, for the two last elections for Westminster. As the returning officer for that populous city, he was compelled, by act of parliament, to erect a hustings and provide poll-clerks, under a penalty for his neglect; and the Act said, he should recover the money so expended from the candidates. Sir F. Burdett had, however, refused to pay his quota; and the high bailiff, in trying to recover it by law, had been nonsuited, and put to the expence of a sum not much short 2,000l.,Mr. Lockhart
1023 remarked, that, for want of proper evidence, they could not understand the effect of the present state of things nor the consequence of competition with foreign grain. The consumer and grower had the same interest; and certainly the agricultural interests of Ireland deserved their consideration and support; but while he wished the prosperity of Ireland, he could not be indifferent to the interests of the people of this country. He was not for precipitating a measure of the results
1023Mr. Finlay
s. wished the decision to be postponed, on the ground that the House was not in possession of information on which it could proceed on so important a question. The agitation which had been caused in the public mind on the subject, was another strong reason why they should delay. He did not himself think that the object of the Bill was to raise the price of corn; but certainly its object was very much misconceived. Even farmers misunderstood it; for within the last 24 hours he heard a farmer say, that the Bill would seriously injure the agricultural interests, because it would fix the price of corn at 87s.Mr. Grenfell
 thought that if the officer acted under a misconstruction of the Act, he ought to be indemnified.Mr. Peter Moore
1022 regretted that the House was drawn into a discussion that day, contrary
1022Mr. Lushington
pro forma, said, it was the understanding of his right hon. friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that the Bill should be then passed pro forma,Mr. Lushington
 thought the House should indemnity the returning officer for his expences; and if all the sheriffs of England were placed, at the same time, in the same predicament, they would have the same claim for being indemnified.Mr. Lushington
 said, he had come to the House in the full expectation that no discussion would have arisen on the measure in its present stage. As to the charge of precipitation, he believed there never was a measure which had come before that House that was less liable to it. Nearly a month had elapsed since the Resolutions had passed, and yet they had not got into a law. It was certainly not his intention to hurry the measure: he merely meant to propose to the House to receive the report; and that the Bill, being then ordered for printing, should not be further contended till Monday, the 6th of June, which would afford a whole fortnight for its consideration. He would agree that there was abroad a very considerable alarm, as well as misrepresentation of the subject, by the assertion that its view was to raise the price of bread; but it would be found that the measure had nothing in it of so mischievous a nature. Persons out of doors, it was well known, would always misrepresent and exaggerate the tendency of measures before that House; and it was as true as unfortunate, that such misrepresentations were always listened to. Yet if this subject were fairly looked at, it would be found not calculated to create a pressure upon the poor, but to prevent those fluctuations in the price of corn, which had, at certain intervals, caused so much calamity, and which will periodically return, if not frustrated by this measure. He would add, that if this Bill did not pass into a law in the present session, the alarm which had prevailed among those who had devoted their capital to agricultural pursuits, would be felt next year in the full extent of calamity. However, instead of saying any thing that might excite debate, he should merely move that the report, be now received, and the Bill be printed.Mr. Huskisson
 had no objection to its being recommitted, if any clause was intended to be proposed.Mr. Huskisson
, in explanation, said, he had not stated the exclusion of foreign grain (well knowing that much had been imported), but the interruption of foreign importation, to be the stimulus that kept agriculture in a progressive state.Sir H. Parnell
 maintained that there had been no precipitation, as the subject had been before parliament a whole year. Few matters had received so much discussion. Even now a fortnight's delay was intended, that the question might be more completely understood. This measure was not framed on views of importation; but on our own stock of grain, and the means of keeping it up. Postponement was called for by those who did not really understand the subject at all. The reasons stated for doing nothing, were the very reasons why something should be done. The artificial state of prices for several years past rendered this necessary. Our exclusion from the continent had given a prodigious stimulus to our internal agriculture. How would it stand with our manufactures, if we were to let in foreign goods, as some now wished to let in foreign grain? Leave the law as it at present stood, for six months longer, and agriculture might become quite unprotected. Would the farmer sow as much corn as if this Bill were passed? Give him protection, and he would go on, growing a sufficient supply for our home consumption; which, if the foreign corn were let in, it would be impossible to expect.Sir H. Parnell
1019l. moved for the production and printing of two papers; which, he lamented to observe, were the last of the class, properly official, that he could obtain from the offices of government, or from the records of parliament. He lamented this much, as he had once flattered himself with being the means of producing, through the report of a select committee, many other important documents; the House, However, had unfortunately shut themselves out from that information; and however he might himself regret it, it was not for him to censure their decision. In moving for these papers, he thought it his duty to correct a mis-statement connected with his former motion, which had found place in several of the public prints. He had been represented as having asserted, that a large sum of money had been sent to Ireland from Rome, for the purpose of founding a Jesuits' college. He had in fact made no such assertion; but had re-stated, as he had before stated in parliament more than twelve months since, that such a remittance had been made from hence to Ireland, for the purpose of being appropriated to a seminary of ecclesiastical education. He also stated, that nearly 16,0001019l.Sir John Cox Hippisley
, alluding to the Bill relative to copy rights of books, wished to state, that a clause introduced in the Bill, which tended to throw an unmerited reflection on certain establishments for learning, should not have his assent. It had been reported, no doubt erroneously, that these learned bodies authorised the copies of books which were sent to them gratis, to be sold. He had no doubt that the suspicion or accusation was unfounded; and as he was the last man in the world who would countenance such an insinuation, he wished it to be understood, that it was not his intention to preserve the clause in question.Mr. Giddy
1030 presented a petition to the same effect from the town of Coventry; setting forth the sacrifices and sufferings of the manufacturing part of the community for several years past; to which they patiently submitted, in the hope that the return of peace would remove all their difficulties. He said, that the petition was signed by 9,000 of the inhabitants, convened at a public meeting, to consider the Bills on this subject before parliament. He begged to assure the House, and particularly those gentlemen who had lately schooled an hon. member for holding communication with his constituents on this subject, that this petition from Coventry did not proceed from any previous suggestions of his; but was the direct and natural emanation of their own just feelings, to which he unreservedly subscribed, lest the price of bread, the first necessary of life, should be increased; and of this, his opinions had been testified to the House, by the uniform opposition which he had given to the measure. Mr. Moore entreated the attention of the House to the very reasonable, respectful, and dispassionate petition, which he held in his hand, and which, however vitally important to the wants and relief of the people,
1030Mr. Moore
 wished to know whether the impress service was still continued on the Thames.Mr. Bennet
 repeated his question respecting the impress service on the Thames.Mr. Bennet
 called to order; for the purpose of preventing, what appeared to him, angry discussion.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 said, that nothing was more parliamentary, and nothing more convenient, than this way of putting questions; as it often prevented unnecessary discussions.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 wished to know, whether the payment of the extraordinary expences officers employed in these missions had been customary on former occasions?Mr. Bennet
 said, that lord Burghersh had been subjected to expences, during the latter part of his mission, not to be paralleled on any former occasion; owing to the difficulty of procuring horses for the conveyance of his baggage; the allied army being then in a hostile country.Mr. Robinson
l.?, in a voice scarcely audible in the gallery, made inquiries as to the meaning of some of the items in the estimates of the year. He asked, what was the reason of the grant proposed to lord Burghersh of 1,000l.?Mr. Bennet
 said, the peerage was the reward for the service, and the annuity the means of supporting it. Two thousand a year seemed utterly insufficient. Under the peculiar circumstances, the matter was worthy of farther consideration.Sir John Nicholi
 was sure there was no expence this country would bear with so much pleasure, as the providing for those who had procured by their skill and valour such great public benefits. He instanced the cases of lords Rodney, St. Vincent, and Duncan, who had grants both on the English and Irish establishments.Mr. C. W. Wynn
 then begged Mr. Bathorst to consent to a postponement; which the latter objected to, as he had no authority to give such consent, and as an addition to the grant would be possible in another stage of the Bill.Mr. Wynn
 said, the disparity of the pay of these officers had not been overlooked; and that there existed a disposition in the government to put them on a footing of equality.Mr. Peel
l.1035 said, he was sorry to have to make any observations respecting the proposed grants in the thin state in which the House then was. He was happy to have prevailed with his Majesty's ministers to consent to tender the annuity per-
l.1035Mr. C. W. Wynn
 gave his opinion, that it would be disorderly to introduce any increase crease of the grant in the progress of the Bill, without a new Message, Committee, and Report.The Speaker
generally1031 presented a Petition from the ship-owners of the ports of the Clyde, praying, that the mates of ships of 50 tons and upwards may not be subject to
generally1031Lord A. Hamilton
 said, as no answer had been given to his enquiry, he should move, after the recess, for a copy of the orders of the Admiralty. Should this proceeding be disagreeable, the right hon. gentlemen would have themselves to blame for it. He understood that great partiality was exercised as to some ports.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that lord Burghersh had been pitched on as a proper person for the mission in which he was employed, and that there could be no doubt bat that he had executed it. A thousand pounds had been advanced by the government for his extraordinary expences, for which he would afterwards account. It was the usual practice in such cases; and the circumstances of the person himself, or the situation of his father, they had certainly no right to take into consideration.Mr. Arbuthnot
l. said, that what the amount of the extra ordinaries of the year would be, it was not possible to say. It was not five millions which had been already taken on account, but three millions, to which the sum then demanded was to be added; which would make the whole taken on account 6,250,000l.Mr. Arbuthnot
d.s.l. moved that the sum of 3,350,132d.s.l.Mr. Arbuthnot
 then consented to a postponement. The consideration of the Report, as also the Report on the Message respecting lord Beresford, was fixed for Wednesday; to which day the House adjourned.Mr. Bathurst
 lamented that the observations of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn) were not heard by more members. He thought the apportionment of pensions to officers, on account of their private circumstances, a matter of great delicacy. The House, however, should be informed, for its satisfaction, that the amount of the grant proposed to lord Hill had been fixed with the consent of his family, although their moderation should not prescribe limits to the liberality of the House.Mr. Bathurst
1032 thought that the treatment which had just been received from the right hon. gentlemen opposite, was not such as the House was accustomed to. When questions had been twice put by
1032Mr. Horner
 wished for some explanation as to the mode of voting the sum required.Mr. Tierney
l. stated, to satisfy the hon. gentleman as to the practice of government towards officers employed on special missions, that it was the constant rule to indemnify those gentlemen for their extraordinary expences; and for the purpose of defraying, these charges, a sum of money was usually advanced. Of this there was an example in the case of general Hope, in the same estimates; who, having been sent on a special message to the Prince Royal of Sweden, received 1,000l.Mr. Goulburn
 stated, that when, during the revolutionary war, Holland was occupied by the French troops, several Dutch officers had taken refuge in Eagland; to whom an allowance was made through general Sontag. When Holland became free, it was signified to these officers that the pension would be discontinued; but, as many of the pensioners were without the means of returning to their own country, it was resolved to advance one year's pension to them for that purpose; which was the item alluded to. As to sir Isaac Brock, when that gallant officer died, he had not been invested with the order of the Bath which had been granted to him. His relatives, however, being desirous that all possible honours should be paid to him, wished that the arms of the Bath should be placed on the tomb voted by parliament. The item alluded to was the amount of fees paid to the officers of the order.Mr. Goulburn
1028, on presenting a Catholic Petition, spoke as follows:—Sir, I have the honour to present a petition from the Roman Catholics of the city and county of Cork, in favour of the Catholic claims; and I beg now, when the House is well attended, to repeat that which I said on a former day in the presence of a few members; and I say now, that I shall not bring on any discussion nor any ulterior measure on the Catholic Question at present, and my reasons are founded on present circumstances. I shall not enter into a detail of those circumstances; it is sufficient to say, that no proposition can under those circumstances be formed with any prospect of advantage, or with any other effect than to throw back the question, and to throw it back at a time when nothing but precipitation can prevent its ultimate success. I have the greatest expectation that the claims for the emancipation of the Catholics will prevail—I see great and substantial difficulties removed—Iwill pursue the cause—I will pursue it with ardour, and in the way which appears to me most practicable, and at a time which appears to me most seasonable. My opinion is, that any further proposition at the present time would be an injury to the Catholics; and I have formed this opinion after consulting the members of this House, with whom I usually act on this subject. Speaking of their opinion, I must advert to a mis-statement in the public papers, in which I am made to allude to opinions supposed to be entertained by noble persons belonging to another place. I did not state their opinion—I did not allude
1028Mr. Grattan
 presented a petition from the town of Nottingham, signed by 10,000 persons, against the proposed alteration of the corn laws; which was also ordered to lie on the table.Mr. John Smith
 expressed his astonishment that no answer had been given to this question. If this practice were persisted in, there would be an end to all the functions of the Commons. They must, he contended, have an answer; and he hoped that the gentlemen, by consulting together, would be able to give the information required.Mr. Barham
 contended, that it would be a great object to have the practice converted into some specific law which would bear equally on all, and which all might know. The object of the petition was, to prevent the masters of vessels of 50 tons being exposed to be taken by captains of his Majesty's ships, contrary to the spirit of the practice.Mr. Finlay
, in seconding the petition, said, the subject was deeply interesting to those parts of the country from which the petition bad proceeded; and he hoped some measures would, be taken to prevent any further proceedings.Mr. Finlay
, in answer, stated, that it was not for the services of the current year, as his hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) and the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney} seemed to conceive, that the present vote was proposed; but for the extraordinary expences of the last year. The nominal amount of the extraordinaries for the last year was 22 millions; bat of this 2½ millions were to be deducted, which had been applied to the regular services of the army. This arose from the circumstance, that all bills drawn by the commissary general were ranked under the head of army extraordinaries.Mr. Long
l. spoke in favour of an increase; which, in his opinion, would not be too much if extended to 5,000l.Mr. Babington
 insisted, that it was entirely new, in the practice of the House, to ask questions not relative to the subject of debate. The question of the hon. member (Mr. Bennet) had no relation to the Petition of the noble lord. He (Mr. Dundas) was not to be frightened by menace or big words into giving an answer, this was a new parliamentary course.Mr. W. Dundas
 would repeat, that he thought this way of putting questions, a new parliamentary mode of proceeding He would, however, answer, that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bennet) was perfectly misinformed.Mr. W. Dundas
 said, they were only protected while on board; and might, according to the practice, be taken when on shore.Mr. W. Dundas
 said, he was certainly justified in remaining quiet on the subject till he had ascertained these circumstances, rather than in giving any supposition of his own on so delicate a question. He should certainly enquire.Mr. W. Dundas
 wished to know what would be the amount of the army extra-ordinaries of the current year? As he understood it, five millions had been already taken on account.Mr. Huskisson
1029, in support of this petition, said, that a great part of the agitation out of doors had been excited by the speeches of a right hon. Gentleman whom he had in his eye (Mr. Rose); which he would find, however much he intended it, were not likely to add to his popularity—(a laugh.) He had consulted, he said, others more knowing than himself on the subject; and he found, that those gentlemen who opposed the measure did
1029Sir Frederick Flood
1036 also spoke in favour of an enlarged grant. He was of opinion,
1036Sir James Mackintosh
 expressed his concurrence in what had just been said, deprecating precipitation. No final determination could be satisfactory on so important a question, unless preceded by the most deliberate investigation, the necessity of which was still more increased by existing circumstances. It was not his intention to enter into these circumstances; but he thought it necessary to notice, that the Catholic Board was permanently sitting in Dublin, and, in fact, was become a permanent parliament, levying taxes on the Catholics of Ireland. He reprobated their conduct in appealing to the Cortes of Spain, as a most pernicious step. From whom did they appeal? From the well-known justice and liberality of this country; holding it up, by that means, in a character which it did not deserve. He wished the measure to be adopted which he had before recommended, and that as complete a collection of the necessary papers should be made as possible. Any proceeding, he contended, must lie over till next year. He had not heard whether the right hon. Gentlemen opposite intended to interfere with the Catholic Board; but it was certainly their duty immediately to suppress it. After the holidays, he should move for further papers that had come to his knowledge, in addition to those he had already moved for.Sir J. C. Hippisley
 wished to call the attention of the government to the Irish adjutants of militia, who (he knew not why) were not placed on an equality, in point of pay, with the same officers in the English militia. He hoped that, in the half-pay arrangement, the case of this class of officers would be considered.Sir J. Newport
1034 Wished to know the purpose of the grants for sums paid by
1034Sir John Newport
 agreed with the right hon. baronet (sir. J. Newport); and observed, that the measure of 1809, which the petition supported by its prayer, had been acknowledged to be a violation of the Act of Union. The only reason why the non-intercourse had been continued, was, that by a full inquiry into the subject all future difficulties might be obviated, and not from the conviction that it was beneficial as a permanent measure. The petition could not be supported on the strength of the Act of Union, when its first prayer was for a continuance of the violation of that contract.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
 supported the prayer of the petition; and said, that the question was, whether Irish spirits should come into this country at half the duty paid by those manufactured in this island?Mr. Western
 moved, that it be referred to the committee appointed to consider the subject of the intercourse of spirits between the two kingdoms.Sir G. Clerke
 said, that in 1786 a measure had been adopted, with respect to the intercourse of spirits between England and Scotland, precisely similar to that, for the adoption of which, with respect to Great Britain and Ireland, the petition he had presented prayed. By that measure, the spirits of one country were not allowed to be imported into the other, unless they were manufactured in distilleries subject to particular regulations. This measure had not been thought hostile to the Act of Union with Scotland, which, as to freedom of trade, was the same as that with Ireland. The object of the petition was, to obtain a continuance of the suspension, with a view to a full enquiry into the subject.Sir G. Clerke
1040 rose, in consequence of a correspondence which had been laid before the public, to ask a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst)
1040The Methuen
 said, he was aware of the convenience of the practice which had been adopted of asking and answering questions in that House, by which means the necessity of making motions was frequently obviated; but as to the question which the hon. gentleman had put, he could only say, that it did not appear to him that the circumstances and character of the transaction warranted him in giving it any answer.Mr. Bathurst
 then gave notice, that he should, on Friday next, bring forward a motion on the subject. The purport of his motion would be—That an humble Address be presented to the Prince Regent, to enquire who was the person that advised his Royal Highness to adopt the measures which had been taken to prevent her royal highness the Princess of Wales from appearing at her Majesty's drawing-room.Mr. Methuen
 rose to say a few words on a subject connected with that respecting which notice of a motion had been given. He was a friend, as much as any man, to the liberty of the press, and was not at all inclined, for personal or private considerations, to interfere with this liberty; but he should read, for the purpose of contradicting it, a statement which had recently been published. In a paper called the Morning Herald, of Friday, May the 27th, the following paragraph had appeared:—Mr. Ponsonby
1042 said, he could vouch, as his right hon. friend had done, that the publication which had been read was altogether false. He was exceedingly surprised that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst), the only minister of the rank of cabinet counsellor in the House, should, though he had spoken, be virtually silent on the subject respecting which a question had been put. He (Mr. W.) could only infer from that silence a disavowal of the
1042Mr. Whitbread
 said, that he had fixed his motion for Friday on account of the Drawing-room to-morrow.Mr. Methuen
l.10441043 rose, and expressed his surprize that nothing had yet been intimated to the House, or the country, respecting any proposed reduction of our war-expenditure in the army, or in any other department. It was hard, he thought, that, after the country had borne so many burthens which that House had concurred in imposing, no prospect was held out to the House or the country of the diminution of those burthens, notwithstanding the various opportunities which had for some time back occurred of presenting such a prospect. Two months had elapsed since Buonaparté was deposed; yet no reduction of our military expence had yet taken place, nor had any declaration been made by ministers, to cheer the people by the hope of that which they were naturally induced to calculate would be the immediate consequence of that deposition. Thus the people, after all those sufferings which they had borne with unexampled patience, were denied that consolation or prospect of relief which they had a right to expect. The hon. member particularly complained that no step whatever was taken to reduce the militia, which amounted to nearly 100,000 men, of which about 2,500 were serving abroad. This militia was confessedly embodied with a view to repress internal insurrection, and to guard against foreign attack. Of the latter it could not be pretended that any
l.10441043Mr. Fremantle
1046 was not altogether satisfied with the explanation given. That force which had been, in a great measure, created to resist the measures of Buonaparté ought to be done away when his system was at an end. Did the hon. gentleman, when he stated part of the militia to be abroad, mean to say, that because that part which was out of the country could not be immediately disbanded, no reduction whatever ought to take place for the present, not till the whole were brought home? He contended, a reduction ought to be made from day to day, from hour to hour, and he would almost say, man by man, as far as was practicable. He was of opinion, that we had already a sufficient number of ships off America; and those
1046Mr. Fremantle
 did not complain of the hon. gentleman for making a second speech; but he thought he had a right to complain when he look credit to himself for having gained a declaration of vast importance to the country, because it had been said, a great reduction would be made both in the army and navy when the preliminaries of peace were signed. Could any man in the country be so ignorant as not to know this would be necessarily the consequence of that peace which by this time, he hoped, was nearly concluded? It had been customary to take sums on account for the military service of the year; but now the time was nearly come, at which it would be for ministers to state what the expence of our establishment should be in future. In the present situation of things, though he was far from imputing any feeling hostile to a general pacification, to any of the powers with whom he had to treat, he could see nothing to induce government to depart from the ordinary practice of making no material reductions on our army or navy till preliminaries of peace were signed. Though proofs of the most amicable disposition were given by the parties opposed to us in the negociations, still they had great interests to attend to; and questions might arise, on which the representative of this country would not be able to speak with sufficient weight, if a reduction of our army or navy preceded the discussion. Till the preliminaries were arranged, it was impossible for ministers to say what establishment would be necessary for the time to come.Mr. Bathurst
 presented a counter-petition from the distillers of Liverpool; observing, that as the subject had just been exhausted, he should offer no remarks on it.—This was also ordered to lie on the table.General Gascoyne
1045 said, that he was not prepared for any discussion this evening on the subject of our military expenditure; but the hon. member on the other side, whose observations he convinced rather premature, as his hon. friend had remarked, having adverted to the conduct of the department, with which he (Mr. A.) was officially connected, he thought it proper shortly to explain. With regard to the militia, the fact was, that the letters
1045Mr. H. Addington
 said, that the Admiralty was innocent of any designation of particular persons for the purpose of their being pressed. The execution of the impress warrants rested with the officers of the ports only. When the impress was slack, the officers did not visit the different ships with particular diligence; and then, if sailors were idle or riotous, the master might inform the impress officers that they would do him no harm by taking such or such persons. It was a favour to a master of a merchant-ship, when the impress officers were obliged to take some men from his vessel, to allow him to choose those whom he would wish to remain.Mr. Croker
 made some observations on the conduct of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Dundas) on a former night. The practice of putting questions had been for a long period common in that House; and answers had always been given, unless it could be stated that the answer would be dangerous to the state. Without this most convenient practice, the time of the House would have been occupied with many unnecessary and almost endless debates.Mr. Barham
 said, the words, as they had fallen from a lord of the Admiralty, were open to the remarks which he had made; and he still thought it would be proper to move for the production of the names of the three persons mentioned.Mr. Whitbread
1039 thought it necessary immediately to notice some words which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Dundas). That right hon. gentleman had
1039Mr. Whitbread
 observed, that the remarks of the hon. gentleman would be rather more applicable on the discussion of the army estimates than on the motion before the House, which referred only to the army extraordinaries. On the part of ministers, he could venture to say, that from the moment of the cessation of hostilities their attention was most diligently directed to the consideration of every practicable means of reducing the expences incident to war. But, as the question of our military expenditure would come more fully and properly before the House on Friday, in discussing the army estimates, he should not enter further into the subject at present.Mr. Lushington
 took occasion to say, an arrangement would be made with respect to emigrants as soon as possible; but it would be a hard and an unfeeling thing to deprive them of their present income before they could be attendee to by their own government.Mr. Lushington
 supported the prayer of the petition.Mr. W. Dundas
, seeing a noble lord in his place who had asked some questions on a former evening respecting impressments, would take the opportunity of saying, with regard to the first question, that no distinction was made in the orders of the Admiralty as to the impress at different ports. As to the mates of ships, they were protected, by the order of the Admiralty, as long as they were doing their duty aboard their own ships, and they might also procure tickets of leave from the officer of the port to go on shore. On another question which he had put to him, parliament alone could determine. He denied that he had been actuated by any spirit of disrespect to the House, or its members; but he had been warmly assailed, and had warmly replied. As to the impress on the Thames, it was true that it continued still; and it was necessary so long as hostilities continued with America; but it was so reduced, that whereas it formerly used to produce from 70 to 100 men per month, in the last month only five men were pressed, three of whom the officer had been desired to impress as riotous persons. In the same month 51 persons had entered as volunteers.Mr. W. Dundas
1038 thought the matter of too much importance to be cursorily passed over; and he must protest against the doctrine he had heard, that there was the slightest desire to interfere with the principles of the Union: such a false representation should not be suffered to go
1038Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that although one great enemy of this country, Buonaparté had been deposed, there was another gentleman whose deposition was also necessary to our interest; he meant Mr. President Madison; and with a view to that deposition, a considerable naval force must be kept up, especially in the Atlantic. But as to his hon. friend's opinion respecting the reduction of the navy, he wished it to be considered that a number of shipping were employed in conveying French prisoners to France, and bringing home our own countrymen. So much for the occupation of our navy on the home station. But from the Mediterranean, for instance, several three-deckers were ordered home; and he could "swear," [a laugh] that no practicable exertion would be remitted to reduce the expence of our naval department.Sir J. Yorke
 hoped gentlemen would not allow their minds to be misled by the idea that the Irish manufacturers were enabled to export their spirits at half the usual duty. But when the Irish spirits were imported, the English distiller was by no means ruined. He considered the question to be one in which the empire at large was interested; and he had no doubt it would be so fairly considered, that each part of the empire might derive proper advantage from the measures that would be introduced.Mr. Shaw
, of Dublin, opposed the prayer of the petition.Mr. R. Shaw
1037 said, that the prayer of the petition was, to establish a permanent infringement of the Act of Union, by which the importation of Irish spirits into England was stipulated for. It would be a more manly course, if the people of any part of Great Britain were dissatisfied with the Act of Union, to instruct their representatives to move for its repeal altogether, than to petition for the evasion of those parts only which were beneficial to Ireland. The petition wished for an establishment in Ireland of the regulations on distilleries in Great Britain. On what ground was such an application justified? Might not the manufacturers of any article
1037Sir J. Newport
 thought the answer of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Dundas) was not satisfactory as to the impressment of mates of vessels; as, by law, those persons were protected, whether on board their vessels, or on shore.Lord Milton
 seconded the motion.Mr. Martin
 had listened to the hon. gentleman's resolution or address with much attention, but could not vote in its favour; because he had ever found, in the history of the councils of princes, that resolutions such as that of the Prince Regent were liable to change, and no overt act had been stated which in his opinion called for the interference of the House. He, however, deeply lamented the Letter sent to the Princess of Wales by the Queen; and had hoped that what passed in this House last year would have put an end for ever to this disgraceful and injurious subject. It was natural in the Princess of Wales to publish the correspondence, to vindicate herself in the eyes of the public, when this new indignity was cast upon her. Although he objected to the present motion as unparliamentary, there were constitutional modes of proceeding, which, if resorted to with a view of putting an end to these dissentions, should have his best support.Mr. Ponsonby
 perfectly concurred with the two last speakers: he trusted that the resolution of the Prince Regent would not prove unalterable; but he knew nothing so likely to render it so, as the present discussions.Mr. C. W. Wynn
1049"The right hon. the Speaker of the House of Commons, &c.""The Princess of Wales incloses copies of the correspondence which has passed, and which she requests Mr. Speaker will communicate to the House.""Under these circumstances, even if the Princess's duty towards herself could suffer her to remain silent, her sense of what is due to her daughter, and to the highest interests of the country, compels her to make this communication to the House of Commons."It is impossible for the Princess of Wales to conceal from herself the intention of the advice which has now been given to the Prince Regent, and the probability that there are ultimate objects in view, pregnant with danger to the security of the succession, and the domestic peace of the realm."The proceedings of 1806 and 1807, and last year, are in the recollection of the House, as well as the ample and unqualified vindication of the Princess's conduct, to which those proceedings led."The Princess of Wales desires Mr. Speaker will inform the House of Commons, that his royal highness the Prince Regent has been advised to take such steps as have prevented her form appearing at court, and to declare his Royal Highness's "fixed and unalterable determination never to meet the Princes of Wales upon any occasion, either in public or private.""Connaught House, June 3, 1814. said, he had to acquaint the House, that since the House had met, he had received a letter from her royal highness the Princes of Wales, smith three in inclosures, which he was desired by her Royal Highness to communicate to the House. With the pleasure of the House, he would read the letter. (A cry of Read, read!)—He then read the letter, as follows:—
1049"The right hon. the Speaker of the House of Commons, &c.""The Princess of Wales incloses copies of the correspondence which has passed, and which she requests Mr. Speaker will communicate to the House.""Under these circumstances, even if the Princess's duty towards herself could suffer her to remain silent, her sense of what is due to her daughter, and to the highest interests of the country, compels her to make this communication to the House of Commons."It is impossible for the Princess of Wales to conceal from herself the intention of the advice which has now been given to the Prince Regent, and the probability that there are ultimate objects in view, pregnant with danger to the security of the succession, and the domestic peace of the realm."The proceedings of 1806 and 1807, and last year, are in the recollection of the House, as well as the ample and unqualified vindication of the Princess's conduct, to which those proceedings led."The Princess of Wales desires Mr. Speaker will inform the House of Commons, that his royal highness the Prince Regent has been advised to take such steps as have prevented her form appearing at court, and to declare his Royal Highness's "fixed and unalterable determination never to meet the Princes of Wales upon any occasion, either in public or private.""Connaught House, June 3, 1814.The Speaker
 said, that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Methuen) was certainty in possession of the House—but, when the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst) rose, he supposed it was his intention to speak to order, which had precedence of every other question. It had, however, turned out, that he was only going to arrange some matters of convenience. It rested entirely with the House, whether they would permit him to proceed.The Speaker
, across the table, said, he did not mean, as it appeared contrary to the sense of the House, to state the arrangement of business which he was about to propose.Mr. Bathurst
pro forma, at length obtained a hearing. He stated, that he rose merely for the purpose of moving, pro forma,Mr. Bathurst
10591058 gave the hon. gentleman full credit for the purity of his motives; but denied that it was within the province of the House of Commons to interfere in this case. He observed, that the hon. gentleman had principally commented on the Letter of her royal highness the Princess of Wales, for which his Majesty's ministers were certainly not responsible. The notice, however, which he had originally given, was, that he would move an address "to know who had given the advice by which her Royal Highness had been excluded from the Queen's drawing-room." The hon. gentleman had, however, now moved for an address of a very different nature, and wanted to be informed "by whose advice his Royal Highness had been induced to form the unalterable determination of never meeting the Princess of Wales, either in public or private." This was, indeed, a question of a very different nature, and a proposition which he thought it was impossible for the House to entertain. He must observe,
10591058Mr. Bathurst
1065l.l.l.l. said, he hoped the hon. mover did not consider his friend (Mr. Ponsonby) pledged to point out to him a mode of proceeding in future. His right hon. friend had not gone so far. He (Mr. T.) said, there were various modes of bringing forward the motion in a different shape.—They did not, indeed, occur at present; but perhaps they would occur when gentlemen had time to reflect upon the importance of the subject. One mode at present occurred to him, and no doubt there must be others. The mode which occurred to him was, for the House, whose particular department it was to control the finances of the state, to bring forward a money resolution; for, said the right hon. gentleman, parliament knew only of an income belonging to her Royal Highness of 5,0001065l.l.l.l.Mr. Tierney
1048 congratulated himself on the rare opportunity which was afforded him of agreeing in the observations delivered by the hon. gentleman. He did think, under existing circumstances, and from the great alarm which at present prevailed in the public mind, that it would be highly improper to precipitate the Bill before the House for prohibiting the importation of corn. The hon. gentleman had said, that some personal had told him he ought to be hanged for holding his tongue. He was satisfied that there was nothing in the hon. gentleman's conduct which called for such a punishment; but above all
1048Mr. Stephen
1063 said, he could not vote for the motion, as he could not think it in parliamentary form; but having assigned that reason, he thought a great deal in the way of sacrifice upon this subject was due to the public mind. Like an hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Whitbread), he never expected to have the subject brought forward again; but he could not help saying, that he thought the present proceedings against the Princess of
1063Mr. Stuart Wortley
 rose again and said, he trusted that the recommendation of the right hon. gentleman would be attended to; and in the persuasion that something effectual would be done, he would consent to withdraw his present motion, with the understanding that he should bring the question forward again in some shape which the experience of the right hon. gentleman and his friends might suggest as more eligible than the present, if the necessity of the case should unhappily disappoint his hopes and compel the interference of parliament.Mr. Methuen
1064 then said, that if the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Ponsonby) would give him the benefit of his parliamentary
1064Mr. Methuen
 then proceeded to introduce his motion; but scarcely had he uttered the words—"I rise," whenMr. Methuen
"That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to pray his Royal Highness that he will be graciously pleased to acquaint this House, by whose advice his Royal Highness was induced to form the "fixed and unalterable determination never to meet her royal highness the Princess of Wales upon any occasion, either in private or public," as communicated by his Royal Highness to her Majesty; together with the reasons submitted to his Royal Highness, upon which such advice was founded."105710561055. I rise, in consequence of a notice given on a former night, to call the attention of the House to the letters we have just heard from the chair; a subject, the importance of which must be generally acknowledged, however liable I may be to the imputation of presumption in bringing it forward, unequal as I feel myself to so delicate and arduous a task. Without detaining the House by any unnecessary preamble, trusting to the case itself to make amends for the want of abilities under which I am conscious of labouring, and hoping that, without any long protestations of my motives, credit may be given me for the purity of them; desirous, and endeavouring not to say any thing offensive to any one person whatever; at the same time feeling it my undoubted, right as a member of this House, to state any fact, or give any opinion, necessary to do justice to my subject; I shall proceed to read in the first place, such parts of her Royal Highness's letter as are most important; and in the second, to make my own comments upon them. [Here the letter was read, and next an extract from the Minutes of Council.]"That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to pray his Royal Highness that he will be graciously pleased to acquaint this House, by whose advice his Royal Highness was induced to form the "fixed and unalterable determination never to meet her royal highness the Princess of Wales upon any occasion, either in private or public," as communicated by his Royal Highness to her Majesty; together with the reasons submitted to his Royal Highness, upon which such advice was founded."105710561055Mr. Methuen
106210611060.—The speech of the right hon. gentleman in defence of the advice he has given, has been like the advice itself—special, minute, wavering—assuming a right—a right to exclude, and acting as if he were conscious the party advised had no such right. Sir, I maintain that a great indignity, a harsh disgrace, a cruel and unmerited punishment, has been inflicted on an innocent person, on a subject of the crown—who was by that crown protected as long as it had moral and mental life and energy to protect hers. At one time the right hon. gentleman shrunk from the contest—he divested himself of all responsibility—he was ashamed of his own act and deed—of the advice that he had given. The sovereign and crown was left by him to trample upon any subject—to gratify its own unadvised and unconfronted vindictive resentments. Yet at the end of his speech he lets us know that the sovereign power did not act for itself. That there were advisers—that he could name them, could give them up if the House should call upon him so to do. Let them come forth! He has treated this as being only an exclusion from an assembly—from a fête; but a positive exclusion, the advisers dared not warrant—that was a proceeding too manly. It was an affront to be operated through the Queen consort of that monarch who, when the King had the use of his faculties, had commanded her to receive the Princess of Wales at her court, as the symbol of her entire innocence—of her complete acquittal. This reception continued till the King's indisposition; and then the Regent was advised to employ the Queen, his
106210611060Mr. Whitbread
 said, that an hon. gentleman having given notice of a motion, and that motion having been pointed to by the course of proceeding adopted by the Speaker, he was undoubtedly in possession of the chair; and, therefore, he (Mr. Whitbread) felt it his duty to call the right hon. gentleman to order when he rose to address the House.Mr. Whitbread
 rose, for the purpose of presenting a Petition from the town and county of Bedford against the proposed alteration in the Corn Laws. The hon. gentleman observed, he should not have said a word in presenting this Petition, had he given any opinion on the subject heretofore. He did consider now, however, from the inflamed state of the public mind, and from the alarm which had arisen, whether groundless or not, that the House ought to pause before they adopted the Bill under consideration. He had no doubt, that gentlemen, who had delivered their sentiments, either in favour or against this measure, were actuated by the same motive, namely, a desire to promote the public good. It was singular, however, to observe the feelings with which the conduct of the different members who had spoken on the subject were regarded. A right hon. gentleman not then in the House (Mr. G. Rose) was, for the first time in his life, placarded in various parts of the town, as the friend of the people; while others were assailed with anonymous letters, attributing to them the most dishonourable intentions; and he was himself told, he ought to be hanged for holding his tongue. For his own part he begged to state, that he was friendly to the measure, both as a grower and a consumer, from a conviction, that the interest of the one was inseparable from the interest of the other. From the expression of public opinion which had been witnessed within the last few days, however, he considered it highly expedient, that the measure should be deterred to another year, by which time the alarm that had been excited might be completely dissipated.Mr. Whitbread
 felt compelled to vote against the motion; yet anxious that his vote should not be misunderstood, or misconstrued into any approbation of the advice given to the Regent: he condemned it as most cruel to one illustrious person and most injurious to the other.Mr. Elliot
 presented a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the county of Surrey, praying that their interest might be protected, which, they were of opinion, could be done without injury to the other inhabitants of Great Britain. He presented also a petition from Godalming, and another from Kingston, against the Corn Bills; and observed, that under the conflicting opinions, he recommended that time should be taken to weigh more fully the consequences of this important measure, and to see if the conflicting interests might not be reconciled.Mr. Thornton
10841083 observed, that in point of order, he might decline discussing this interesting subject on the present occasion. But from respect to his hon. friend, who had so immortally distinguished himself in the great cause which he had undertaken, the abolition of the Slave Trade he would say a few words upon it. He sincerely trusted that, although the Treaty, as it regarded the abolition of that trade, was not so fortunate as to meet with his hon. friend's approbation, it would nevertheless prove a powerful instrument in the accomplishment of that great work in which his hon. friend had been so strenuous and successful a labourer. His hon. friend's feelings were perfectly natural, and he hoped that in his turn his hon. friend would do him (lord C.) the justice to recollect that, since a portion of the public authority had been place in his hands, be had not shown himself unmindful of his duty on the subject. As to the extension to the other ceded colonies
10841083Lord Castlereagh
 moved, that it should be taken into consideration on Friday se'night.Lord Castlereagh
1085 said, that, in consideration of the number of Petitions which had been presented to the House against the proposed alteration of the Corn Laws, he should move to refer those Petitions to the consideration of a select committee, with the intention and hope, that if the committee could make their report in due time, some legislative measure might be founded upon it in the course of the present session; and he should propose that it be an instruction to the committee, to examine how far the prices fixed by the 44th of George 3, for regulating the importation of foreign corn, were a protection to the growers of corn in this country; and if not, what provisions were in their judgment
1085The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1088d.d.1087 said, in the present state of the public mind, the motion of the right hon. gentleman appeared to be very proper. Whether the committee determined that a Bill should be introduced this session, or that it should be postponed to the next, he thought it ought to be appointed; in the hope that a report might be made, calculated to give satisfaction to the country. He regretted the warm feelings which had been excited among the people, in consequence of the erroneous opinions they had been induced to adopt; and he could not help saying, that the mode in which the question had been discussed, both in and out of that House, had forced them into the situation in which they at present stood. The mode to which he alluded was, the constant assumption, as an incontrovertible principle, that the system recommended by the corn committee must necessarily raise the price of bread.—That assumption had pervaded the whole speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose), whose entire chain of reasoning was founded on it The right hon. gentleman must feel that he had assumed the question in that way which best suited his own argument, He had not only maintained, that the measures proposed by the committee would raise the price of bread and beer, but he had stated the exact advance which would take place if their resolutions were adopted. Now it was extraordinary, that a gentleman so well versed as he was in the corn laws should have argued in this manner. He could not deny, that; for 68 years, during which there was an actual prohibition of the importation of grain, corn was cheaper than it had been at any time before or since. He took the prices from the pamphlet of the right hon. gentleman, and, comparing them with those which preceded and followed the period he alluded to, found them considerably more moderate than either the one or the other. If the question were to be debated on the principle,
1088d.d.1087Mr. Western
1072, who presented a petition from Liverpool with 22,000 signatures, said, that he thought it impossible for any man who had cast his observation about for the last ten days, not to feel, that unless some urgent and pressing necessity called for its adoption, it would be the height of impolicy to urge the measures referred to by the petitioners at present. No such urgent necessity had been shewn to exist; and as he was confident, without pronouncing any opinion upon the merits of the Bill, that it was not yet understood, he recommended strongly that it should not be hurried through the House. In
1072Mr. Canning
 supported the view of his right hon. colleague; and adverting to a scoff applied to a similar petition lately presented from Bristol, declared his conviction, that so universal and so strong was the public objection to the measure referred to, that it would be dangerous to the peace of the country to adopt it.General Gascoigne
, on presenting a petition from Wolverhampton, spoke in the same strain. Mr. Coke presented a petition from the corn growers and millers of Norfolk in favour of the proposed alteration in the corn laws. Ordered to lie on the table—as was a petition of an opposite nature, presented by Mr. W. Smith, from Norwich, which petition the hon. member stated to have 12,000 signatures.Lord Levison Gower
10741073l. presented a Petition of the master wardens and court of assistants of the art or mystery of clockmakers in the city of London, setting forth: "That the art of making clocks and watches was long since established, and has been carried on in this country with great private and public advantage, and has attained unequalled excellence; that, till within a few years past, more than 100,000 clocks and watches have been annually made, whereby the sum of at least 500,00010741073l.Sir W. Curtis
1075 observed, that although the manufacturers were thus ready to come forward with petitions to secure to themselves the monopoly of their own market by the exclusion of foreign manufactures, yet they were loud in complaining of any attempt to secure the advantages of the British market to British agriculturists by the exclusion of foreign corn. When some gentlemen spoke of freedom of trade, he thought they appeared only to insist upon its application to agriculture, while every, restriction that could benefit manufacture was tenaciously maintained. If, indeed, the proposition of free trade were applied generally, the legislature
1075Sir J. Newport
 said that the right hon. baronet had wholly mistaken the petition, as its only object was to guard the petitioners against fraud. As to the right hon. baronet's allusion to agriculture, he (Mr. R.) should be ready to meet him at the proper time on that point.Mr. Rose
 insisted that he had not misunderstood the Petition; as its object was, to render more effectual the law which granted them a monopoly of the British market by the comparative exclusion of foreign manufactures.Sir J. Newport
 stated, that the petitioners did not require any monopoly; but only asked, that foreign watches should not be so marked, that a purchaser should, be unable to distinguish a good English watch from an inferior foreign article.Sir W. Curtis
 asked, for what purpose it could be required to prevent fraudulent importation, unless there was a prohibition? With regard to the Petitions presented against the proposed change in the corn laws, be thought that the House must yield to the public feeling on that subject; for a spirit had been excited out of doors, which was calculated to overawe the House; and he could not help expressing his surprise at the quarter from which the appeal had been recently made from that House to the people. He never, indeed, recollected any such appeal even at Palace-yard or Copenhagen-house. But any man could have roused the feelings of the people upon to subject of food. It required no talents to produce such agitation as now existed; but that agitation existing, no one could safely advise the House to proceed farther in the measure under consideration—indeed the House dare not—(A loud cry of Order! Chair! Chair!)Mr. Barham
 expressed his opinion, that the hon. member could not advisedly use such language.The Speaker
1076 explained, that when he said that the House dared not proceed farther upon such a measure with a view to adoption, he meant that it dared not adopt such a Bill, under all the circumstance of the case; from consideration of the alarm which prevailed respecting it, and the evils which its adoption was but too likely to produce. He meant the House dared not do that which would be
1076Mr. Barhum
1077 declared, that this was the first time he had ever heard a member of parliament observe, that there could be no fraudulent importation unless there was a prohibition; while the fact was, that not a single article was imported into this country without being subjected to taxation. So much for the hon. member's skill and intelligence. [Hear, hear! from sir J. Newport.] The hon. baronet might cheer, but his statement was correct—for he recollected very few articles indeed, not even excepting raw materials, which were not subject to an import duly. Of course, such articles might be fraudulently imported. The hon. member had alluded to excitement upon this subject; but all that he (Mr. R.) had done respecting the corn laws could not, be trusted, be deemed irregular; for it consisted in his speech delivered in that House, in which speech he conscientiously stated his opinion. In that question, he would ask what improper motive could be imputed to him, or how it was possible for him in such a case to be actuated by any sinister consideration? He declared that, independently of the speech alluded to, he had offered nothing to excite any petition upon this question. Even to Southampton, which was represented by a relation of his, he, when applied to upon the subject, merely sent the resolution of that House, without any advice whatever how the electors of that town should proceed. In fact, he did not believe that any excitement had been used, or was at all necessary, among the people upon this question. On the contrary, he regarded the petitions on the table quite as the spontaneous expression of the public opinion. Whether that opinion was correct or not, he had no doubt that it was spontaneous; and it was evidently so decided against the proposed change, that
1077Mr. Rose
 in explanation said, that he had spoken only of the effect produced, and had not called the right hon. gentleman the author of the ferment.Mr. Barkam
 insisted, that the prayer of this petition had for its object to confirm a duty which amounted to a prohibition on foreign watches and clocks. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) had been so much accustomed to being an author, that he seemed to have quite forgotten that he not only made that speech in parliament, but afterwards published it; and, by so doing, he thought that he had greatly contributed to the ferment now existing. He must insist, that the manufacturers had no right to call for protecting duties for themselves, if they were unwilling that other classes of his Majesty's subjects should have equal protection. This was not fair; they should be content that protection should be meted out to all classes with an equal measure, or they should not call for it themselves. Was it not hard, that while protection was extended to other classes, the landholder should neither be at all protected from the competition of foreign agriculture, nor even allowed to export his own produce when it would bring the highest price? The landholder was in fact annoyed in two ways; first, he was not allowed to purchase foreign commodities if he could have them on cheaper terms, or to send his produce to a foreign market; while he was denied the benefit of a due preference in his own market. Thus did the law provide for the benefit of the manufacturer, to the prejudice of the agriculturist.Sir John Newport
 spoke in favour of the petition, the only object of which was to prevent foreign watches from being marked with the name of any English manufacturer, and so imposed as of English manufacture. An hon. member had, he observed, expressed surprise at the quarter by which objections had been made, or, as he stated, "prejudice excited," against the Bill before the House; but he (Mr. P.) could not help expressing his surprise, that such a measure had met no opposition in another quarter, which was generally forward to profess a great regard for the feelings and interests of the people.Mr. Protheroe
 expressed his belief and confidence, that any delay which the measure before the House might experience would not serve to defeat, but to ensure its ultimate success. For such a measure required only to be fully discussed and understood, to secure general acquiescence; as it was meant and calculated for the general good. It was not to be regarded as a measure having only a partial view to the interests of Ireland, or any particular quarter, bat directed and designed for the benefit of all classes and districts of the empire. Such a measure, therefore, would not, he trusted, be abandoned.Mr. W. Fitzgerald
, in explanation, stated, that three Irish gentlemen were examined by the committee, whose report was before the House; but he trusted that evidence, with respect to the interests of England and Scotland, would be examined before such a measure as that which that report recommended should be enacted.Mr. Protheroe
 deprecated the discussion in which the House was engaged; as quite inapplicable to the question properly before it, and as ill calculated to cure the animosity, or calm the inflammation which prevailed in the country, with, regard to the measure fixed for consideration this evening, and into which gentlemen were rather prematurely entering.Mr. Canning
1089 said, when an hon. friend of his (Mr. Bankes) made a motion, on a former night, that a committee should be appointed for the purpose of enquiring whether any inconvenience would be suffered by the public, if no measure were adopted on the subject of the corn laws during the present session, he cheerfully concurred in it—because on that point, he wished the House to be satisfied. But to the motion just submitted to the House by his right hon. friend, he had an insuperable objection—for he did not think it was possible that the committee could so investigate the subject, as to produce a satisfactory report within the period to which the right hon. gentleman had alluded. It could not be so easily examined as the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bankes) seemed to imagine. The arduous and difficult point to be discussed was, what the protecting price should be; and, when it was recollected, that on this part of the subject no less than seven or eight sets of propositions had been drawn up, it was very evident that it would not be speedily adjusted. The hon. gentleman had observed, that it only required the average prices of corn for the last 20 years to guide the committee in their decision—but there were so many interests connected with the subject, that the committee could not, consistently
1089Mr. Rose
 replied, and insisted that, on former occasions, when the importation price was highest, the market price of corn was lowest.Mr. Western
 expressed himself in favour of the motion. He hoped the committee would inform themselves completely of the losses which the farmers were now sustaining. That useful and meritorious class of men were at present placed in a situation of great difficulty, from which it was most advisable that no time should be lost in extricating them. He had given his support to the measure introduced for altering the corn laws, because he thought it would bear less severely on the lower classes, than those propositions, which, in consequence of the evils produced by delay, they might hereafter be called on to entertain. With respect to the clamour out of doors, he felt it a heavy misfortune, that any man, standing in his situation, should be accused of acting from sordid motives; yet such was the charge advanced against them. It was said, that the object of the great landed proprietors was, to keep up exorbitant rents. But when the House were acquainted with the situation of the farmer, he would pledge his existence, it would be seen, that the rents bore no proportion to the heavy taxes they were obliged to pay. If this should be the case, be trusted the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose) would, in his candour, come forward and declare, that he was mistaken in his statement on that point.Mr. Long Wellesley
 utterly and absolutely denied that he had ever made any accusation, or used any expression, that even tended to cast a reproach on the landed proprietors. He should be glad to know of the hon. gentleman, who spoke with so much confidence, when and where this accusation was made.Mr. Rose
 said, the right hon. gent. had observed, in his pamphlet, that an advantage would be derived by the landed proprietors from the measure—and he believed he used the same language in that House. If his ears had not deceived him, the right hon. gentleman had said, that the consequence of the measure would be, to keep up exorbitant rents—an expression which was also contained in his pamphlet. Now, he was convinced the rents were not exorbitant; and, if he were examined before the committee, he would prove it.Mr. Long Wellesley
 desired the hon. gentleman to point out any passage in the pamphlet that bore him out in the assertion he had made. It was true, the expression "exorbitant rents" was there—[Here, hear, from Mr. Wellesley.]—He (Mr. Rose) wished the hon. gentleman would hear him. Those words were not given as his—they were in the mouth of Mr. Curwen, one of the greatest agriculturists of the country. The hon. gentleman ought to have read the speech a little more attentively, before he made any observation on it.Mr. Rose
1092 said, it was incumbent on the legislature of a great country like this, to take equal care of the interests of all classes of individuals. A clamour, in many instances certainly very unnecessary, had been raised against the measure before the House; but if the amount of the taxes and burdens on agriculture were fairly taken into consideration, that clamour he had no doubt would be done away. The assessed taxes, property tax, and poor's rates, no doubt, weighed on all classes of the community; but there were some taxes which were borne exclusively by the agricultural class, and were direct taxes on husbandry. The tax on husbandry horses was of this description, and
1092Sir Charles Burrell
 thought it would be premature at present, to determine whether any measure would or would not follow the labours of the committee during the present session. They ought to wait for the report of the committee, before deciding upon this point. For the protection of our agriculture, it would be necessary that a Bill of some kind or other should be passed. But he did not think it probable that the report of the committee would be laid before them in time to admit of a Bill being carried through both Houses of Parliament during the present session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
10951094 said, if the committee was merely to direct its attention to the scale regulating the duty on importation, he would certainly oppose it. He thought the dangers which were apprehended from a free trade were altogether without foundation. This country was supplied with most manufactures cheaper than any other; the agriculturist was not therefore placed in a disadvantageous situation, in comparison with the corn-growers of other Countries. It was said, that a free trade would draw capital from agriculture to commerce; but the accumulations of commerce had a natural tendency to seek that security in land which land alone could afford them. Land derived the greatest benefit from commerce. They had as vet no information as to the state of prices on the continent. They ought to know whether we could bear foreign competition in our own markets. Even at the present moment the Irish importer could more than brave foreign competition here; for he could afford to sell corn cheaper than we could import it from Dantzic, Hamburgh, and Konigsburg.
10951094Mr. Phillips
1100 could not bear to hear the great, and, in many instances, respectable, body of petitioners now before the House on the subject of the corn laws, treated in so undeserved a manner. They were said to be ignorant on the subject as to which they had petitioned the House. There was no where, however, he ventured to affirm, more false information on this subject to be found than in the learned papers which the committee of last year had laid before the House in their report. All the petitioners wanted was, not to see laws established which should cause them to pay for their bread more than was necessary. It was said, that the Bill before the House would be beneficial, in as far as it would have the effect of making the price of bread steady. Now, he could not see that it would have this effect. Steady prices were never produced by restriction. Apply the doctrine of restriction to any one county in England, and it would be
1100Mr. Baring
1098 heartily concurred in the view of the matter taken by the worthy baronet (Curtis). If the proposition of his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was meant to serve as an instrument for ultimately expediting the Bill now before the House, he (Mr. Canning) should vote against the appointment of a committee; though he confessed he should feel greatly embarrassed in doing so; as it most appear strange out of doors, that with such a mass of petitions on their table asking of them not to proceed without farther information on the subject, they should wish to shut their eyes against such information as they could obtain. After the explanation, however, which his right hon. friend had given on this subject, and after being told, that it was not meant to pledge the House to proceed on the report in the course of the present session, unless there should seem to be a necessity for, so doing, he thought that sending the matter to a committee
1098Mr. Canning
1101 agreed to the alteration, as to the wording of his motion, suggested by Mr. Canning. If it could be supposed that the motion as he proposed originally to word it, could have had the effect of fettering the committee, that was a sufficient reason why it ought to be altered. As to pledging himself
1101The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1102 would rather that the matter were entirely postponed to the next session, as there might in the mean, time be
1102Mr. Rose
 moved, That the said Report should be taken into further consideration that day three weeks; and general, Gascoigne moved as an Amendment, That it should be taken into consideration that day six months; upon which the House again divided; when the numbers were—Ayes 116; Noes 106. Majority 10.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 apprehended that any discussion upon the measure would now be superfluous. He felt himself now bound to oppose the committee, because he considered that no effective measure could result from their labours, and be carried through parliament, during the present session. The committee would have to order different persons to attend upon them for examination, and to enter on different enquiries. In what time, then, he would ask, could it be supposed to finish its labours? Not, surely, at the very soonest, in less than three weeks. The discussion of the measure which their labours might give rise to, would, at least, take up three weeks or a month more; and at the end of July, they would be able to send up a Bill to the House of Lords. The House was in some degree in an awkward situation. He should be sorry to encourage the notion, that the House had been determined either by the number of petitions, or the clamour out of doors. But, on the other hand, he could not consent to vote for a proposition which he considered as hopeless for the object which; it had in view. His former understanding of this matter was, that the measure was to be put off to next session, but he now understood that something was expected to be carried through in the present. Before be could make up his mind as to what might be considered a fair encouragement to the agriculturist, he should wish to hear something from the right hon. gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer) respecting the duration of the war taxes and property tax, and the period at which we might expect to see our currency restored to its former state. The law, as it now stood, would place the country in a different situation in this respect in the course of a few months.Lord A. Hamilton
 spoke in favour of granting a fair protection to the agricultural interest. It had been argued, by those who opposed an alteration in the corn laws, that, if the farmer were dissatisfied with his profits, he might expend his capital on some other object. This was the worst argument that could be used—such a system would have the effect of changing the agricultural, into manufacturing, labourers—which, in his opinion, would be most prejudicial to the country. He would not say, that manufactures had been carried too far, but he thought they had been carried quite far enough. Every class in the country, no matter of what description, instead of opposing, ought to unite in protecting the interests of agriculture.Mr. D. Browne
 observed, that the words of the motion were certainly open to the observations of the noble lord behind him (lord A. Hamilton). The committee were not only to report facts and to deliver opinions, but to instruct the House what Bill ought afterwards to be brought in. They were to state to the House what they considered as a fair protection to agriculture, and what measures were likely to lead to its future extension. The House ought not to delegate so important a trust to a committee of their number; as there was no individual who was not already pledged to one side or the other. The committee ought rather to sit for the purpose of informing them more fully on different points which at present require elucidation; and the measure ought to be put off for another session.Mr. Henry Thornton
, in presenting a petition from the borough of Evesham, shortly stated, that private letters accompanying that petition had informed him, that a considerable ferment had been excited in the public mind throughout the country upon this subject; and although he was aware that parliament ought not to be deterred from the discharge of its duties by mere clamour, yet in the present instance, no positive necessity appearing to exist for the present Bill, he would submit it to the House, whether it would not be exercising a sound discretion to postpone further proceedings until the country should have time, deliberately, to examine into the true nature of the proposed measure.Mr. Howorth
1091 was sorry the right hon. gentleman's present commentary had not accompanied the publication of his pamphlet; if it had, it would have prevented a very general misconception which had existed. He did not impute to the right hon. gentleman an intention to bring a direct charge against the landholders, that their only object was to raise their rents, or keep up exorbitant rents, at the expence of the poor; or against the gentlemen who promoted the measure proposed, that their only object was to raise the price of bread; but this was the inference that had been drawn, and not very unnaturally drawn, from certain passages in his pamphlet, by great numbers of people. Had it not been for arguments like these, the number of petitions on the table would have been greatly diminished. He rose chiefly, having formerly voted against the committee proposed by an hon. gentleman (Mr. Bankes), and meaning now to vote for the committee proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to explain the motives of his conduct. He hoped he was incapable of having his mind biased, in the slightest degree whatever, by any popular clamour. He was convinced that no person in that House was capable of being so biased. They would very ill discharge their duty to the people, if they were induced by any consideration to act contrary to their deliberate opinion in a matter in which the interest of the people was so deeply concerted. And in this question, of all others, the people were the most apt to be misled by their passions, and the false reasoning held out to them. But he thought it also the duty of the legislature to carry with them, if possible, the opinion of the people; being convinced, that no measure could be carried into beneficial execution, unless the opinion of the people went along with it. He had voted against the committee formerly proposed, because he understood
1091Mr. J. P. Grant
, upon presenting a petition from Oxford, observed, that at the meeting from which it originated, he had thought it his duty to address his constituents, with a view to impress upon their minds, that the measure to which the petition referred was not calculated to produce the consequences which the petitioners apprehended. He deprecated the sentiment which prevailed among them with regard to the motive of those by whom that measure was brought forward. He therefore told his constituents, that it was their interest, that it was the universal interest of the nation, to encourage the industry of our own countrymen, by preferring the produce of our own agriculture to that of foreigners, and thus to render, ourselves independent of foreign supply. This statement he thought due to the character of that House, to that of the authors of the measure under consideration, and to his own conscientious conviction. But he was sorry to find that he totally failed in producing the impression he desired; and he felt it right to inform ministers that a considerable alarm prevailed upon the subject; and that districts, heretofore remarkable for their peaceable and orderly conduct, were in a state of great agitation in consequence of this measure. He therefore conceived that it would be advisable to postpone any further proceeding upon the measure until the public mind was in a better temper, by being more enlightened respecting it. Ministers would, he had no doubt, act with firmness; tempered, however, he trusted, with a due degree of prudence.Mr. Lockhart
 was for the committee; in the hope that no measure would follow upon the subject during the present session of parliament.Mr. Lockhart
 was favourable to the proposed alteration in the corn laws as to importation; being satisfied that, instead of raising the price of bread, it would have exactly the contrary effect. He should vote against the committee, because he thought the best way was to abandon the measure; when the people would soon become sensible of what they had lost, and would find that they themselves had brought down the evil upon their own heads.Mr. Barham
1071, on presenting a petition from Poole, stated, that it was signed by a number of respectable individuals who were fully competent to form an opinion upon the subject. For himself, he had no hesitation in saying, that he entirely concurred in the wish of the petitioners. Indeed, from the moment the
1071Mr. M. A. Taylor
 thought the best mode of proceeding would be, according to the prayer of all the petitions, to postpone the matter till the next session of parliament. His object and that of his constituents was, to see what the effect of the instrument which the noble lord (Castlereagh) had that night laid before the House (the Definitive Treaty of Peace) would be against next session. Ministers would have time to look about them, and to see to what extent our burdens could be alleviated; and landlords also might have time to enter into arrangements with their tenants.Mr. P. Moore
 was of opinion, that the landed interest ought to be kept at a fair par with the other branches of the community. It was impossible that the prices of agricultural produce, and the rent of land, could fall to what they were before the war, while every other article had sustained a proportionable increase. The grower of corn ought to have such encouragement as to induce him to raise the supply of food necessary for the consumption of the country; and it was well ascertained, that this country could grow a sufficiency of corn for its own subsistence.Mr. Preston
 approved of the appointment of the committee; thinking it proper that the country should become independent of foreign aid in so essential an article as that of bread.Lord Compton
 saw no occasion for any interference to protect the agricultural interest. Competition caused the manufacturer to send his articles into the market at the lowest rate; but there was no such cause that operated on the landholder.Mr. Broadhead
1096 said, every subject alluded to by the hon. gentleman would, as the motion was shaped, come before the committee; for the first reference to that committee was, that of all the petitions on the table on the subject of the corn laws. In some of these petitions the freedom of trade was surely introduced. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. gentleman would give his vote for the committee. He would state the reasons why he supported the present motion for a committee, though he objected to the appointment of a committee on a former occasion. He believed now, as he did then, that there was no probability of any importation of corn into this country before the next harvest. The only circumstance which varied his view was, that of the number of petitions which had been presented to the House. The views of these petitioners, even if founded in misrepresentation, although they ought not to induce any member to do that which he was not convinced was just and proper, were still entitled to the most respectful consideration of the House. Although the petitions were in many instances the result of malevolent and mistaken appeals to the feelings of the people, they ought to be met by temperate inquiry and the fullest investigation. The circumstance of such number of petitions, therefore, afforded a ground for those who were favourable to the measure, to support the present inquiry; for the object of these petitions was, not to make any alteration in the corn laws, or to make no alteration in them without further inquiry. With respect to the encouragement which ought to be afforded to the farmer, it should be considered, that there was now a great diminution in the value of money; and that the capital necessary for carrying on of farming operations must now be double to what it was before the war. The noble lord (lord A. Hamilton) deceived himself, therefore, if he thought that things could return to what they were before the war. This was one of the most dangerous errors that could be entertained. What was likely to be the permanent charge of this country now that the war was at an end? The whole expences of this country, including all our establishments before the war, only amounted to 16 millions. He
1096Mr. Huskisson
1086 observed, that he had voted for the proposition made on the first agitation of the subject, to refer the consideration of it to a committee; and that his reasons were, tenfold stronger than they were at the period, for the appointment of a committee. If he opposed the motion of the right hon. gentleman, therefore, it was because he was persuaded that no report of a committee, made in the present session, or measure founded upon such report, would have a fair chance of giving satisfaction to the public. Fully persuaded of this, and fully persuaded also that the postponement of the consideration of the subject to another session, would be no serious injury to any class of the people, he should vote against the motion. Far, however, was he from doing this under the apprehension that any violence would be suffered by the House, or by any individual member, in consequence of any perseverance in the measures which they might think it expedient to adopt. He had presented a petition that evening against the proposed alteration, signed by 12,000 persons, 7,000 of whom had actually assembled to prepare it: all of whom felt that the projected measure would very sensibly and injuriously affect their interests—but this feeling did not produce any riotous or disorderly conduct. They behaved themselves in the most correct and moderate manner; and it certainly was due to those who had so demeaned themselves, to pay a proper attention to their request, and to give a little more consideration to the subject than it could receive in the present session. Much had been said of the means taken to procure petitions. In the populous city which be represented (Norwich) be could answer for the fact, that but one opinion existed on the measure which had been introduced, and no means whatever were resorted to for the purpose of exciting the expression of popular feeling. He knew that persons of all parties and descriptions, the richest and, the poorest, the best and the worst informed, these who were the most likely, and those who were the most likely, to be affected by the measure, were unanimously of opinion, that it ought not to be proceeded in till next session of parliament—He would not pledge himself as to the
1086Mr. W. Smith
1082108110801079 assured his noble friend, that if he had not been able to concur in the salutation with which his noble friend had been welcomed on his return to the House of Commons, it was, not from any want of personal cordiality; but because, seeing the noble lord coming up the House with the French Treaty in his hand, and calling to mind the arrangements made in it respecting the Slave Trade, he could not but conceive that he beheld in the noble
1082108110801079Mr. Wilberforce
 was surprised to hear it contended, that the House had no information on the subject now under consideration. Had they not, the statute that hod been passed on the subject? And had they not also all the quarterly average prices of the maritime districts, as they had been published quarterly? Were they not all on the table?Sir C. Monck
1097, having presented a petition against the Bill on this subject now before the House, from a large body of manufacturers employed in the iron trade, in Wales, wished to state why be assented to the motion for the appointment of a
1097Colonel Wood
d.d.1099 observed, that the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had been pleased to say, that he would not ask of the Chancellor of the Exchequers to pledge himself, that nothing farther should be done in the matter during the present session; while, at the same time, be proposed to make the enquiry into which the committee were to go, so broad and extended
d.d.1099Sir J. Newport
 was sorry to hear invidious comparisons between the manufacturing and the agricultural interests. He thought they were best supported when the two stood together. He thought the appointment of a committee a very salutary proposition, and felt regret that the House had proceeded to such a length in the Bill now before them, without having availed themselves of the information which they were thence likely to-derive. Why should they now be pretending to legislate, without knowing what the real price of any one thing which they purposed to regulate, was?Sir W. Curtis
 expressed his satisfaction at the observations which had been made by his hon. friend (Mr. Wilberforce), and trusted they would have their due weight. It was no great consolation to those who were lamenting that the Slave Trade would still be carried on by France, to be told that the emperors of Russia and Austria, and the king of Prussia, none of whose subjects could carry on the trade, were desirous that it should be abolished. He was far from thinking with the noble lord, that at the expiration of the five years France would with great facility relinquish this abominable traffic. If she felt indisposed to abandon it at a time when she reaped no commercial advantage from its existence, what would be her disposition when the extinct commerce of her colonies should begin to revive? He wished then to ask the noble lord and his Majesty's ministers, whether the non fulfilment on the part of France of the article in the Treaty, respecting the Slave Trade, would be considered by them as a sufficient cause for war with France? If they did not go that length, then the hopes entertained by the friends of the abolition were worse than nothing, and they were only lulled into an imaginary security that would soon be completely and miserably dissipated.Lord Milton
 stated, that in consequence of the burning of the Custom-house, application had been made to him for liberty to inspect the papers in the custody of the clerk of parliament which had been at any time presented from the Custom-house. Sitting on the woolsack, he thought it most becoming in him to mention the matter to their lordships; and he now moved, that Mr. Irving, the inspector general of the imports and exports, should have leave to examine the papers which had been at any time presented to that House from the Custom-house.—Ordered accordingly.The Lord Chancellor
 stated that he had a Message from the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, recommending it to the House, under the existing circumstances, further to adjourn itself to the 21st of the present month (March). Having read the message, as above, he moved, that the House do accordingly adjourn till Monday the 21st instant.The Earl of Liverpool
326325 did not oppose the motion; nor could he feel himself justified in giving it any decided opposition, after the manner in which it had been recommended by message from the Prince Regent; stating, at the same time, however, that, notwithstanding the manner in which the motion was recommended, he considered it as perfectly competent to himself, or any other peer, to oppose the motion of adjournment, if he thought proper. But any reluctance that he felt in concurring in this motion, and he certainly did feel some reluctance, arose not from any want of respect to the quarter from whence the recommendation came, nor from any want of confidence in his Majesty's ministers, or their efforts for the attainment of the great object, with, a view to which this adjournment was proposed; nor from any wish whatever to throw any obstacles in their way in the prosecution of that great object: on the contrary, if he imagined, or had the slightest idea, that the sitting of parliament would, in the smallest degree, interfere with them in this respect, or withdraw their attention or time, in the least from this important object, he should be the first not only to concur in, but to urge the propriety of agreeing to the noble earl's motion. His reluctance arose solely from a view of the state of public business at this moment, and also of much important private business. Many matters, which ought this session to meet with the serious attention of their lordships, would now be postponed to a very late period, if they could at all be brought under consideration. There was no disposition on that side (opposition side) of the House to give any interruption to ministers, in regard to any negociations that might be going on; and no such interruption would be given. Feeling no disposition on his own part, then to give any interruption to ministers in the object which at this time must particularly en-
326325The Marquis of Lansdowne
327 did not feel himself called upon to say any more than a very few words, with reference to what had been said by the noble marquis. He agreed with him, that, notwithstanding such a mode of adjournment, a motion to that effect coming recommended by Message, any peer might, undoubtedly, oppose the motion, if he thought proper to do so. But the respect which was generally shewn to such a Message, under such, circumstances, made it rather an unusual proceeding to oppose a motion of adjournment founded upon such a recommendation, and under such circumstances as were at present known to exist. Then, as to the question of the expediency of such an adjournment, the noble marquis had said, that the ministers would not be embarrassed nor interfered with, even although parliament should continue sitting. Yet he (lord Liverpool) must observe, that this was an argument which might apply to every adjournment, under any circumstances. But the real question was, whether, upon the whole, it was advisable that
327The Earl of Liverpool
328 asked, how was it possible to say that no material inconvenience could result from this adjournment, when it was notorious that there was such an arrear of causes in that House; causes which ought to be proceeded in without a moment's unnecessary delay? How was it possible to say, that no material inconvenience would arise, when the regulation of the corn laws formed an object of so much importance, and one which demanded prompt attention? Parliament had already adjourned far beyond the usual period of adjournment, and now it was called upon to adjourn again. He did not mean, however, to set his own individual opinion against what appeared to be the general sense of the House: he should not, therefore, oppose the motion: he was as anxious as any of their lordships that ministers should not be interfered with in the great object about which they were at present particularly employed: but he thought they might have taken the pledge that
328The Earl of Darnley
 had merely a few words to say with respect to the appeal causes. On the best judgment that he could form, it appeared to him, that the adjournment need be attended with little or no inconvenience in regard to the hearing of appeal causes, provided their lordships thought proper to prevent it. If he did not sit there, he must of course sit in the court of Chancery during the three weeks to which the adjournment extended. If then, as much of his time was taken from the court of Chancery, and devoted to the hearing of appeals, on the meeting of parliament after the adjournment, as the court of Chancery now gained of that time by the proposed measure, he did not see that much inconvenience was likely to arise from that adjournment, with respect to the hearing of the appeal causes.The Lord Chancellor
 said, it was very possible, that after the close of the present adjournment another might be proposed. No precise judgment could be at present formed, even by the ministers themselves, whether a further adjournment might or might not be thought necessary. But unless they thought it probable that parliament could really proceed to business at the close of the adjournment now moved, it was desirable that they should give some notice to the agents who were concerned in appeal causes. Many of these had, to his knowledge, come to town already in the full expectation that parliament was now to have proceeded to business. In some way or other, notice might be given them before the end of the present period of adjournment, that another adjournment was in contemplation, in case another should be thought advisable.The Duke of Norfolk
 said, he could of course give no positive pledge now on that subject. It must in some measure depend on circumstances. But he could say, at present it was intended, that parliament should proceed to business at the close of the present adjournment. As to the inconvenience stated by a noble lord on the other side (Derby), from Passion week and Easter coming close upon the period of the proposed adjournment, that circumstance had been considered; and it was expected that matters could be so arranged, that the inconvenience would not be very material.The Earl of Liverpool
329 said, the adjournment must, if it took place at all, be, in reality, protracted till the middle of April. At the close of the adjournment now proposed would come Passion week, and then Easter; so that this adjournment, though nominally only for three weeks, was, in fact, an adjournment for six weeks. He had discharged his duty in stating this. The ministers might have given credit to the pledge of his noble friend that they would not be interrupted or interfered with by the sitting of parliament, in the prosecution of the important subject which now engaged their particular attention. About the negociation it might be improper at present to say any thing farther than this—he wished, from the bottom of his heart, that ministers might be able to bring that negociation to the desirable termination—that they might be able to bring about a peace founded on a solid basis,—a peace likely to be lasting, and one which would be safe and honourable for all parties. No impediment would be thrown by him in the way of ministers in the conduct of this negociation—none would have been thrown in their way by him, though parliament,
329The Earl of Derby
 observed upon the propriety of a general understanding prevailing, as to the particular hour at which public business, or private business likely to excite public attention should in future commence. It was of great importance that some regulation of the kind should forthwith take place.The Duke of Norfolk
337 said, it was always understood that five o'clock was the most generally convenient hour for entering upon the public business before Christmas; upon grounds of particular convenience, it was agreed that half after four should be the time; but, as it did not seem that any particular time was so much
337The Earl of Liverpool
349 said, he did not rise to offer the slightest opposition to the motion with which the noble earl had concluded; which, on the contrary, had his most cordial and hearty concurrence. He could add nothing to the detail so properly given by the noble earl, and which so clearly established the importance of this last triumph of the illustrious commander whom they were now so justly called upon again to thank. He said the last triumph, because he trusted that the series of splendid successes which had raised the glory of the British arms to a height of renown unknown in any age or country in the annals of history, and the great and brilliant victories of our allies, would be finally crowned by a safe and honourable peace, to which our illustrious commander and the glorious army he had led would have so essentially contributed. He trusted, that the blood which had been so bravely and profusely shed might purchase a peace upon terms consistent with safety and honour, and founded upon just and equitable principles. The noble earl, in speaking of the occupation of Bourdeaux, had very properly confined himself to its importance in a military point of view; and upon that head there could not be a doubt of the essential advantages derived from the possession of that city; not only from the supplies thus afforded to our army, but from the facility given to the communication with this country, which was unquestionably of the greatest importance. Agreeing most cordially with the noble earl in these statements, he also perfectly agreed with him in the propriety of what he had abstained from stating. Other views, it was well known, had got abroad with respect to the occupation of Bourdeaux, and circumstances
349Earl Grey
348347 said, although he could not anticipate the slightest opposition to the motion he was about to propose, he still thought it right to make an observation, for the purpose of shewing the grounds upon which he called for that testimony of the approbation of the House, conveyed in their thanks, for the eminent service recently performed by the marquis of Wellington. His lordship then adverted to the difficulties which lord Wellington had to encounter, in making good the passage of the Adour, observing that they appeared almost insurmountable. They arose from the width and rapidity of the river, and the incessant rains which had swollen it and all its tributary streams, and rendered all the roads nearly impassable. The only means of passing it was by a bridge of boats; and when it was considered that the river was 400 yards in width, it would at once be seen that the difficulty of crossing it was of no ordinary nature. The bridge of boats, when formed below Bayonne, was in danger from the garrison sending down floating timber, which might destroy it; and to prevent which, as far as possible, recourse was had to a very strong boom and rafts, in order to secure the bridge from any attempt of this kind. In addition to these difficulties, the French army was strongly posted, in number nearly 40,000 men, and commanded by an officer of distinguished talents. The British army was of nearly the same amount. Fortunately, however, the weather cleared up about the middle of the month of February, and continued fair till all our operations were completed. His lordship then described the movements which took place, as mentioned in the Gazette Extraordinary, which led to the battle of Orthes on the 27th ult. and terminated in the defeat of Soult; noticing also the successful exertions, under many difficulties, of rear admiral Penrose, and the officers under
348347Earl Bathurst
408 said:—My lords: Before I move that this House do adjourn, I have to inform your lordships, in pursuance of the commands of his royal highness the Prince Regent, that the Negociations entered into by our Allies, and on the part of his Majesty, with the French government,
408The Earl of Liverpool
 said, it would not be possible to produce them to the House before the recess; but they would be ready, he believed, very day on which parliament should first meet after the period for which it might be found convenient to adjourn the House during the approaching holidays. Care would be taken in the mean time to have the papers printed, that they might be laid before the House in that shape when they met; and he should propose as early a day after the recess as was consistent with a due understanding of the subject, for taking the papers into consideration.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, there was no intention entertained of hurrying on the discussion. What he meant was, that as early a day as possible, but not that too early a day, should be fixed.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed himself satisfied with the declaration of the noble earl. A day too early would not be satisfactory, when very extensive and voluminous papers were to be the subject of discussion.Earl Grey
409 observed, that he derived a great consolation from the statement of the noble lord, that not only in the principles on which the negociation was carried on, but also in the causes which led to the termination of that negociation, there had been the most complete agreement among the Allies. When that information promised by the noble lord should be communicated to the House, he trusted that they would have the farther satisfaction of learning, not only that the Allies had agreed in the principles of the negociation, and the circumstances and conditions upon which it was terminated; but that those circumstances and conditions would prove that the negociation had been broken off by the ambition and injustice of the enemy. The noble lord had said, that the Declaration of the Allies, and such further information as might be wanted, would, in due time, be laid before the House. It was undoubtedly his wish, and the wish of all their lordships, he believed, to examine these documents as soon as possible; and he wanted to know from the noble lord, whether they had any reason to expect that the papers would be laid before the House before the adjournment, that they might come prepared
409Earl Grey
 adverted to the extraordinary and alarming powers he conceived it would vest in the revenue officer; in authorizing one, by what was called a Writ of Assistance, to take a constable, or other officer, and enter any shop, cellar, &c. and in case of resistance to break open doors. He seemed to liken such a power to certain unconstitutional practices which were complained of in the time of Charles 2, and to certain proceedings under general warrants, which obtained at an early period of the present reign; and thought that some strong and adequate reasons should be assigned for such an enactment.The Duke of Norfolk
 said, that the practice to which the noble duke had adverted, had continued from the time of Charles 2, down to the present time; and had been acquiesced in, from a conviction that the power, though extraordinary, was necessary for the purpose of protecting the revenue. If an officer entered a house in the manner mentioned by the noble duke, and found no smuggled goods, it was actionable; so that the writ must be executed at the officer's peril. But whether the system ought to continue or not, there could be no reasonable objection to this Bill; which was merely to provide against the expiration of the writ by the death or resignation of the head of the Board of Customs who might have authorised it.The Lord Chancellor
416 said, on an indictment before him, the objection was taken, that the writ abated by such death or change; and it appeared to him, that there was much force in it. He presumed, that it
416Lord Ellenborough
421420419 said, he rose to present four Petitions which he considered of great consequence, because they related to the very important subject of civil liberty. He had, with some degree of astonishment, met with persons who were bold enough to state their objections to political liberty, from whom he completely differed; and he had seen those who were bigots enough to declare their sentiments
421420419Earl Stanhope
 begged to call the attention of their lordships to what passed relative to the late negociations previous to the recess. He had then informed the House, that it was the intention of government to lay upon the table certain papers upon this important subject. Events had since occurred, which rendered such a proceeding, at present, at least, unnecessary; as fresh negociations had been commenced, which, it was hoped, would be speedily brought to a favourable termination. In this situation of affairs, his Majesty's ministers conceived, that the production of the documents already referred to could be of no public advantage; and considerable inconveniences might possibly arise from it. This explanation was all he thought it necessary now to give upon the subject.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought that he had already given a sufficient explanation why the documents were not laid upon the table. He did not wish that any thing which fell from him should at all prejudge the question, how far it might or might not be proper to produce them on a future occasion; that must depend upon circumstances. It was not difficult to imagine, that events might take place which would render it improper and unwise, that the papers regarding the negociation at Chatillon should be submitted to the public. At present, however, he did not mean to prejudge the question.The Earl of Liverpool
 would only trouble the House with a few words upon what had just fallen from the noble earl. Towards the conclusion, he had spoken of the necessity of disclosing the documents in question, for the sake of convincing the people of France of the unreasonable pretensions of the enemy: his lordship (lord Liverpool) believed that he might venture to assert, that upon this point the mind of the noble earl might be perfectly at ease; since, whatever differences might exist, there was not the slightest doubt as to the real and just causes of the late happy events. The noble earl had not correctly stated what passed on this subject previous to the recess: he (lord Liverpool) had then informed the House that certain papers would be laid upon the table as a foundation for some subsequent parliamentary proceeding, the institution of which the Prince Reagent might recommend. No man could now say that such a proceeding would not be wholly unnecessary; and the general rule, when papers were laid before the House, must be abandoned if they were now produced. His lordship admitted, that this was not the only ground on which the production of documents might be called for; and it would be perfectly competent to the noble earl, on any future day, to move for the papers in question or for any others he might deem necessary in the view he should take of this important question. In the opinion of ministers, however, the reason for submitting these papers to the country was now removed; and certainly at present no benefit could be derived, and some inconvenience might result, from the disclosure.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the only ground on which he could accede to the proposition of the noble lord was, the declaration that inconvenience would arise to the public from the exposure. Charged as ministers now were with the conduct of transactions of such unprecedented magnitude, if they chose upon their responsibility to declare that public inconvenience would result from the production of these documents, he (earl Grey) could do nothing but acquiesce. When, however, the possibility of that inconvenience should no longer exist, he might perhaps move for the production of papers.Earl Grey
451450 expressed some surprise at the apparent uncertainty of the noble lord, as to the line of conduct he would pursue with regard to the documents which he had himself proposed to lay before parliament. He felt every disposition to place as much confidence in ministers as the present circumstances of the country might demand; but he could not comprehend upon what principle, or upon what ground, the papers in question were now withheld. The noble earl, before the recess, had stated, that he only waited until the arrival of the official Declaration of the Allied Powers; and that as soon as it arrived ministers would feel it their duty to afford every information in support of the facts stated in the Declaration, to convince the world of what he (earl Grey) trusted there was no doubt the moderation of his Majesty's government, and of the Allies, in the course of the important discussions at Chatillon. That Declaration had now been printed; and it set forth (not perhaps so distinctly and explicitly as could be wished) the grounds upon which the negociations had at length been terminated. The documents that were to have been supplied contained merely the evidence to support and confirm the assertions in that instrument, without affording any thing new that might become the subject of vague discussion. Under these circumstances, his
451450Earl Grey
455454453 trusted, that the House would allow him to make a few remarks upon
455454453Earl Grey
449 was glad to understand distinctly from the noble earl, that negociations were now on foot, which were likely to have a result that would promote the
449Earl Grey
456 denied that he intended to throw any imputation upon his noble friends: he only meant to express astonishment that he had not been anticipated. With regard to the rupture of the negociations, he was sure he did but express
456The Earl of Carlisle
452, though he allowed
452The Earl of Carlisle
 moved the third reading of the Bank Restriction or Gold Coin Bill.The Earl of Liverpool
545 stated, as his reason for not having made any observations on the subject now, that he understood it to be the opinion on all sides, that they must have such a Bill for a short time at least. With respect to the general question, he admitted that it was one of very great importance, and one which must be touched with great delicacy. The situation of the country with regard to its circulating medium was certainly one in which no country in the world perhaps had ever before been placed, but without these deviations from the ancient principle, the great exertions which had been made for some time past, and especially the exertions of last year, could not have been made. He admitted, however, that now it would be proper, as soon as it could conveniently be done, to revert to the ancient system, or rather to the principles of the ancient system, as nearly as circumstances would allow. The attention of ministers would, of course, be turned to the subject; and the result would be brought forward in the manner which might appear best calculated to answer the intended object. But in the mean time, he apprehended there could be no difference of opinion as to the necessity of the passing of this Bill, and of continuing the present arrangement,
545The Earl of Liverpool
 proposed the first reading of this Bill; as there were some petitions to be presented against it, which could not be received before the first reading. The principle of the Bill was excellent; but as to its propriety in the particular instance, from ignorance of the facts, he was unable to form any opinion. The reason why he took part in the Bill was, to show that he bad no hostility to it, as he had opposed a similar one in the last session, which was then thrown out, in pursuance of an excellent maxim of their lordships, never to proceed on evidence taken by the Commons, but to examine their own witnesses.Earl Stanhope
544 expected, considering the importance of the subject, that the noble lord would have stated his reasons for proposing this continuation of the measure. It was a subject of the very highest importance. By the law as it at present stood, the Bank, it was known, must resume payment, in cash, in six months from the signature of a definitive treaty of peace. Whatever were the options on the subject of the circulation of the country, whether gold had risen in value as some thought, or paper had fallen as others thought, he presumed all must agree, that as to this resumption of payment by the Bank, there most be some regulation. This would be a matter for very serious consideration, even if the paper of the Bank of England had been the only Bank paper in circulation, but when it was considered, that there were no less than 900 other establishments of this description, which in their issues of paper naturally looked solely to their own interest, the subject must appear of still more serious importance. When this restriction was first imposed, the matter had been investigated by parliamentary committees; and when, in six months after, its continuation was proposed, the subject was again submitted to the investigation of committees of parliament. He hoped, that before any specific measure should be proposed on the subject under the present circumstances, a similar investigation by a committee of one or both House of Parliament would take place.
544Lord Lauderdale
 announced to their lordships, that a Convention for the Suspension of Hostilities between France and the Allied Power had been signed by lord Castlereagh, on the 23d instant, on the part of Great Britain; and that a copy would be laid before their lordships as soon as possible.Lord Liverpool
587 seeing his noble friend (lord Liverpool) in his place, was desirous of ascertaining from him the exact import of the suspension or cessation
587Lord Holland
 had no hesitation in stating, in reply to the question put by his noble friend, that Norway was not included in the suspension of hostilities.The Earl of Liverpool
 asked, was it to be understood from that statement, that we were at war with Norway.Lord Holland
 had no objection whatever to state the fact, that orders had been given at the proper place (the Admiralty), to take measures for the blockade of the ports of Norway.The Earl of Liverpool
 conceived himself to be limited at present merely to the giving an answer to the question. When the motion should be made, he would then have an opportunity of stating the whole of the circumstances.The Earl of Liverpool
588 said, he certainly should object to the production of
588The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he was glad that the House was summoned for Monday; as a subject of the last importance, as connected with civil liberty, was to be discussed on that day.Lord Stanhope
 wished to know whether it was the intention of ministers to move the Thanks of the House to lord Wellington and the army under his command, for the battle of Toulouse. He did not himself mean to submit any motion on the subject, but was desirous merely to state his opinion that it ought to be done.The Duke of Norfolk
 stated, that ministers had no view of that kind at present.The Earl of Liverpool
589 moved the second reading of the Dulwich College Bill, and stated that the object of it was merely to enable the master to marry. By the statutes made for the regulation of the College by the founder, the master could not be a married man. This had been found very inconvenient, and was not suited to be present state of
589Lord Holland
 still continued of opinion, that it was preferable not to agree to the production of the paper in the first instance. Their lordships must be convinced that this did not arise from any wish to shrink from the avowal of the fact. He should give a full statement and explanation of the circumstances which justified Great Britain and the Allies in this proceeding, on the motion for the production of the paper.The Earl of Liverpool
 was adverse to the principle of the Bill. If the statutes made by the founder were thus to be altered, it would be better that the corporation should be dissolved at once, and the property suffered to go to his heir at law. The precedent of Morden College was a bad precedent, and rather afforded an argument against than for the present Bill.The Duke of Norfolk
 had very much the same view of the subject as the noble duke. The precedent of Morden College he thought a bad precedent, and one rather to be avoided than followed: he should not, however, oppose the Bill going into a committee.The Earl of Liverpool
 did not give any opinion on the subject at this time. They would have an opportunity when in the committee of examining these statutes, and forming a correct judgment upon the whole matter. But by agreeing to go into the committee, he requested it might be understood that he did not mean to prejudge himself in any way as to what might be fitting ultimately to be done. The Bill had been referred to the judges in the usual way. When the Bill was brought in, the preamble bore that the alteration might be useful to the college. The judges had struck out this, and inserted those, "whereas, &c. it might not be prejudicial to the college." If their lordships were to alter statutes because they might not be prejudicial to the colleges, there was no saying where they were to stop. How far it might be proper to make any alteration in the present instance would of course be best ascertained in the committee; and so far, therefore, he was ready now to go.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the question might perhaps assume a different shape after it came out of the committee, and that was certainly a reason for going that far, though he was adverse to the principle of the Bill as it appeared at present.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, be should move for the paper on Monday.—It was then ordered that the House be summoned for that day.Earl Grey
 observed, that as the motion to be made must be for the purpose of laying the foundation for some further proceeding, it was desirable that their lordships should have before them some official document. The statement of the fact by the noble lord was of course perfectly sufficient for them, as individuals; but to lay the foundation for a parliamentary proceeding, there must be some regular document, or evidence, to bring the matter officially before the House. Had the noble lord any objection now to consent to a motion for the production of the instruction to the Admiralty to give orders for this blockade? He would have an opportunity for giving a full statement of the circumstances on the motion for the further proceeding.Earl Grey
 supposed it was then to be understood from this statement, that the ports of Norway were to be blockaded by Great Britain, in order to compel Norway by famine to submit to unite itself with a foreign power against its inclination! He heard this avowed with equal astonishment and grief. What was to be done upon this, he did not know. The matter was in the hands of his noble friend. But some motion ought to be made, that the subject might be thoroughly sifted.Earl Grey
590 agreed with the noble lord, that much industry did appear to have been exerted out of doors, and with considerable effect, as might easily be seen (alluding possibly to the numerous attendance on the opposition side). He
590Lord Ellenborough
 said, it appeared to him, that it would be the better course of proceeding to have the paper first produced. The House knew the fact certainly from the noble earl's statement; but it would be better to have it brought before the House in a regular way, which it must be before any further proceeding could be had.Lord Grenville
, being one of those who had voted for the Morden College Bill, thought it necessary to say a few words as to the grounds of his vote, though he should only say a few words now, there appearing to be an understanding that the Bill should be committed. Their lordships were aware, that these foundations were, in fact, the creatures of the legislature; and that the founder was only permitted by the act of the legislature to make statutes for the time to regulate his college. There must be in every society a supreme power to alter and regulate whatever in its actual situation appeared to be adverse to the public interest. To say, that any founder of any institution could make statutes unalterable by the legislature, was as absurd as to say that the present parliament could make laws unalterable by any future parliament. Highly as these foundations ought to be respected, and great as was the deference which ought to be paid to the wishes of the founder, yet in any college if there appeared to be statutes adverse to the public interest, God forbid that it should be out of the power of the legislature to correct the evil, and act for the public interest in that, as in other respects. This he thought himself bound to say, much as he respected these colleges and the statutes of their founders. He thought the case of Morden College one to which this high power of the legislature was most properly applied, and on that ground had voted for it. What the exact state of the present case was, would be best ascertained in the committee.Lord Grenville
 said, it would be proper that a day should be fixed for the general discussion of the subject to which these elements referred. With the leave of the House, he would propose Tuesday the 10th inst., and for which day he moved that the Lords be summoned; which was ordered accordingly.Earl Grey
608d. rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to this subject; and he expressed his persuasion, that what he had to state with regard to the violation of civil liberty and common humanity, under the law as it at present existed, particularly in consequence of the arrest upon mesne process, was such as must excite the astonishment, and interest the feelings of every one who heard him. Before he proceeded to this statement, he thought it proper to advert to the Act of last sessions for the relief of paupers confined in the King's-bench, the Fleet, and the Marshalsea. According to this Act, a magistrate was authorised to order an imprisoned pauper an allowance of 6608d.Earl Stanhope
648 rose to call their lordships' attention to the subject of the African Slave Trade. It had been for some time his intention to propose to the House to agree to an Address to the Prince Regent, requesting his Royal Highness, in the course of the negociations for the restoration of a general peace, to use his endeavours to procure from the allied sovereigns, and whatever other powers might be parties to the negociation, a renunciation of the African Slave Trade. He had delayed it till now, however, in consequence of an understanding that a similar proposition was to be moved in the other House, and then to be sent up to their lordships for their concurrence. It appeared, that the matter had taken there a different course; from some objection in point of form, he believed. He therefore thought it right to delay his proposition no longer, being most anxious to obtain their lordships' concurrence in a resolution
648Lord Grenville
654 said, he was sure the noble earl must feel that it would not be proper on his part to give a precise answer to the question which he had just
654The Earl of Liverpool
656 declared the satisfaction he felt, when he found that the illustrious commander of our forces on the continent had been raised to a higher title. He wished to enquire of the noble earl over the way, if it were not the intention of his Majesty's government to provide also the means of supporting this high rank, so properly conferred? It had been suggested to him, that it was intended to bestow an additional pension for that purpose, but he felt every objection to the propriety of such a provision; for if, instead of the noble house of Blenheim, and its ample domains, a pecuniary payment had been granted to the duke of Marlborough, by this time the change in the value of money would have rendered the compensation inadequate to the support of the dignity. He trusted ministers would propose this subject for the consideration of parliament. He knew that House was not immediately
656The Earl of Darnley
 could assure the noble earl, that the subject to which he alluded had been under consideration; and most probably to-morrow, or on the first day of attendance afterwards, he should receive his royal highness the Prince Regent's commands to make a communication to their lordships of the measures recommended by his Royal Highness for that purpose.The Earl of Liverpool
sine qua non had no difficulty in stating the existence of the negociation alluded to; but he thought their lordships must feel the danger of any explicit answer to the noble earl's question, as to what might be the sine qua nonThe Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that he never, recollected a minister who did not declare, that any answer to a question of this nature would rather embarrass than promote the object of a pending negociation. But still he must say, that it would not become the ministers or that House to suspend the declaration of a decisive opinion upon this interesting subject, until the poor but brave population of Norway were reduced to submission by force and famine.Lord Holland
sine qua non655 said, that being told, on the one hand, that an explicit answer to his question would impede the object of a pending negociation, while apprised, on the other, that measures of violence and injustice, totally inconsistent with, the honour and character of England, were using to force the submission of a country
sine qua non655Earl Grey
sine qua non. could not feel satisfied by the answer of the noble earl; for it was impossible to collect from it what was the intention with respect to Norway, whether it was intended to allow the Norwegians to preserve that independence for which they were so nobly struggling, against the privations of famine, and the pressure of various misery; or whether their submission to the government of Sweden was to be the sine qua non.Earl Grey
653 presented a petition from the tradesmen, manufactures, and others, of the town of Newcastle upon-Tyne, against the measure supposed to be pending in parliament, for an alteration of the Corn Laws. This petition, it
653Earl Grey
sine qua non,, disclaiming the intention to interfere with any pending negotiation, thought it necessary to ask the noble earl at the head of the Treasury, whether a negociation of some sort had not been recently entered into respecting Norway; whether with that view commissioners had not been sent to both Denmark and Norway; and whether thosé commissioners were directed to demand the cession of Norway to Sweden, as a sine qua non,Earl Grey
662"May it please your Royal Highness;"To His Royal Highness the Prince Regent—The Humble Address of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, in Parliament assembled.661660659658657, anticipating, as be had already said, no opposition from any quarter to the proposition which he was now about to submit to their lordships, he trusted that this persuasion would be accepted as his excuse for omitting to urge to such extent and with such earnestness as should otherwise have done, a point in the success of which he felt so deep an interest. He had on former occasions apologized for the earnestness with which he had pressed the measure of the abolition, when many were adverse to its adoption. Now when parliament and the country were unanimous in its favour, unanimous in the wish that it should be extended to the whole civilised world, he need not state at length the motives and reasons why he was desirous that their lordships should accede to a resolution which had for its object the effectuating of that which they were all so anxious to see accomplished.662"May it please your Royal Highness;"To His Royal Highness the Prince Regent—The Humble Address of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, in Parliament assembled.661660659658657Lord Grenville
 observed, that, among the papers laid on the table, in consequence of a motion which he had on a former occasion submitted to the House, with a view to ascertain how far the compact between this country and the Swedish government had been executed, he found a return from Mr. Edward Thornton, dated the 6th of June 1813, in which it was stated, that Sweden had at that time about 30,000 men in readiness to perform its part of the contract. But as this return referred only to the commencement of the campaign, and as it was very possible that the king of Sweden had been since deficient in the performance of his engagement, he wished for a return of the troops furnished by that power, up to the latest period at which the same could be made out. Such information he thought necessary with a view to the motion which he proposed to bring forward on Tuesday. He saw from the papers on the table, that the several instalments upon the subsidy which this country had covenanted to pay to Sweden had been regularly discharged; and from this circumstance it might be concluded that the whole of the troops promised by the Swedish government had been supplied. But of this supply he desired information. From the papers on the table, he saw that Guadaloupe had not yet been surrendered to Sweden, although according to treaty it was to have been surrendered on the 1st of August last; and therefore he wished to know whether the non-surrender of this colony was the consequence of Sweden's having been deficient in the performance of her part of the treaty alluded to.Earl Grey
 conceived that it was the duty of ministers to have obtained that which our agent in Sweden was bound to furnish; namely, a regular account at different periods of the number of troops which Sweden supplied according to treaty. The information contained in the paper on the table stated the number merely ready to support the allies; but there was no information before the House as to the number which actually joined the allies.Earl Grey
.—Still the House is uninformed, whether that or what number joined the allied army. From some information that has reached me, I am led to believe that the Swedish contingent was never complete.Earl Grey
 repeated, that the paper on the table stated the number of Swedish troops in readiness on the 6th of June 1813.Earl Bathurst
 stated, that his Majesty's government had not received any return of the number of troops which Sweden was to have furnished for the common cause, since that specified in the paper referred to by the noble lord. But government had no reason whatever to conclude, that the number of troops which Sweden engaged to furnish had not at all times been complete. With regard to Guadaloupe, the non-surrender of that colony did not proceed from any nonperformance of contract, or from any distrust whatever in Sweden; but simply from this circumstance, that the Swedish government had not made any application for its surrender.Earl Bathurst
 reminded the noble lord that a very important question stood for discussion on that day.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, whatever the understandings of the noble lords might be, if it were thought the noble earl's motion would create but a short discussion, they were very much mistaken indeed.The Lord Chancellor
 said, if the debate on his proposition were found likely to run to an inconvenient length, the debate on it might be adjourned to some given day. But he had much pleasure in saying, that persons on both sides of the House were favourable to his measure, and which he thought to their credit. He thought it abominable, that in cases of a debt for a few shillings, individuals, where the expences ran up to many pounds, should be put in prison on that account. He then repeated his notice for the second reading of the Bill to-morrow.Earl Stanhope
 observed, the object of the Bill was not to prevent the recovery of costs; but to prevent men from being imprisoned for such costs as were contemplated in the Bill.Earl Stanhope
 observed, he knew such was the law; as his presenting a Bill to alter it in those respects was a proof. But he knew that the law had suffered some alteration in these respects, as in a recent statute of his present Majesty; and the principle he conceived to be the same in both cases.Earl Stanhope
 said, he knew that perfectly well. He had informed the noble earl who was to bring on the discussion of his intention, and he had made no objection as to the proceeding. They perfectly understood each other upon the occasion.Earl Stanhope
 observed, that the two Bills which their lordships had read a first time, on his motion, on a former evening, were since printed, and the copies were then upon the table. They were both proper Bills to be read a second time. Of one of these he intended to move the second reading on Thursday; but the other, which contained enactments for the better protection of poor and other debtors, he should move the second reading of to-morrow.Earl Stanhope
741 explained, that the practice of arrest in mesne process was clearly and indisputably sanctioned by the ancient and established law of England; and he deprecated the ill effects which might arise from such things being
741Lord Ellenborough
 said, that with respect to the proposed measure, the noble earl had not only mistaken, but falsified the law. The practice of arrests in such actions, was long sanctioned by the law of England. So early as the statute of Henry 3, and ultimately by the statute of Henry 7, so long had the practice of arrests and holding to bail in all actions of the kind been provided for, and sanctioned by the law of England.Lord Ellenborough
740 said, it ought not to go forth, that a measure proceeding upon
740Lord Ellenborough
, in explanation, declared, that in his estimation Sweden had fulfilled all the provisions of the Treaty which she had concluded with the allied powers; and denied that he had imputed bad faith to the king of Denmark. What he had said was, either that Denmark had interfered to induce Norway (notwithstanding the cession) to resist her annexation to Sweden; or, to which opinion he was much more strongly inclined, that the assumption of the government of Norway was an act of gross usurpation on the part of Prince Christian Frederic.The Earl of Liverpool
802801800799de facto798 said, the question which they were discussing might be considered in two lights—the one, the way in which it had been argued by the noble earl and noble baron opposite. First, how far the cession of Norway by Denmark to Sweden, was agreeable to the law of nations; and next, how far we were justified by the Treaty which we had entered into the Sweden, in assisting that power to obtain possession of Norway. The other ground which he should occupy was more narrow, but in his opinion fully sufficient, even admitting the force of the general arguments employed by the noble lords, to bear him out in his opposition to the motion; namely, how the question stood on the special circumstances of the case. Even if all the general principles laid down by the noble lords were to be admitted as true, he would still contend, that there were special circumstances in this case to which these principles were not applicable. Before, however, he came to say anything on the subject of the general principles on which the noble lords insisted, he would first explain the state of
802801800799de facto798The Earl of Liverpool
806805804803 wished to call the attention of their lordships to the motion before them; which was, for an Address merely to suspend an act of the last extremity of war, while a negociation was
806805804803Lord Holland
784783"Than fly to others that they know not of.""—rather bear the ills they have782781bona fidede novo,780779778l.l.777Or to victory!"Welcome to your gory bed,Scots, whom Bruce has often led,"Scots, wha ha'e with Wallace bled,776775774773772771770769 rose, and spoke nearly as foliows:—784783"Than fly to others that they know not of.""—rather bear the ills they have782781bona fidede novo,780779778l.l.777Or to victory!"Welcome to your gory bed,Scots, whom Bruce has often led,"Scots, wha ha'e with Wallace bled,776775774773772771770769Earl Grey
ruat justitiam.807 expressed his astonishment at the arguments used by the noble lord who had just spoken, and who, having admitted that the act itself, abstractedly considered, was indefensible, contended, that it was justified by the circumstances of the case! Such a doctrine had never before been held in a British parliament. "Fiat justitia, ruat cœlum," was an old saying and quotation; but the noble lord reversed it,
ruat justitiam.807Earl Grey
 said, there were two Bills on their lordships' table which he had introduced; and as there were peers present who did not hear him when he described their nature and tendency, he should now just state, that one of these Bills was entitled, "An Act for the better protection of poor debtors;" and the object of it was to prevent attornies, who proceeded to recover small sums, and who run up the costs, from imprisoning the person on account of the swelled costs. The other, was "An Act to prevent arrest under mesne process," which was contrary to Magna Charta, by which a man could not be imprisoned, but by the judgment of his peers or the law of the land; whereas, by the present law of arrest, any man might be imprisoned by the oath of an Atheistical rascal.—He now gave notice, that he should move the second reading of these two Bills to-morrow se'nnight; for which day he moved that the Lords be summoned.—Ordered.Earl Stanhope
790bona fide789788787786bona fide785 said, that as he felt all times considerable difficulty in addressing their lordships, that difficulty was greatly increased, from his being obliged to oppose the noble earl who had last addressed their lordships, in a speech replete with all the considerations that could affect mankind, dressed in the most glowing eloquence, and supported by all the advantages which could arise from the most extensive review of the subject. But if their lordships would not permit themselves to be dazzled by the brilliancy of eloquence, or confounded by the light of antiquarian research, but would admit a little practical common sense into the discussion, he hoped he should be able to persuade them to reject the proposition which had been submitted to their judgment by the noble earl. He (lord H.) should, in the consideration of the important subject before the House, take as the first that topic which the noble earl had taken in that order, viz. the construction of the Treaty of this government with Sweden. The noble earl (Grey) had contended,
790bona fide789788787786bona fide785The Earl of Harrowby
 felt himself called upon to vote against the resolution; as it appeared to him, under existing circumstances, impossible to adopt any course but that which had been pursued by his Majesty's government. This he proceeded to shew from the words of the Treaty, the original copy of which he compared with the translation. The present, he contended, was no time for entering into the policy or impolicy of the Swedish Treaty. That had formerly been submitted to parliament, and received their sanction. The cession of Norway by Denmark was perfectly consistent with public law, as they found it laid down by Vattel. However he might adopt the feelings of the noble earl who had brought forward this motion, and concurring as he did with many of the principles which he had laid down, he could not, under all the circumstances, agree to vote for the Address.Lord Boringdon
797de jurede jure,de novo,796795794793792791.—My lords; on several farmer occasions when this subject has been noticed in parliament, I refrained from interposing any advice of my own, because we were told that discussions regarding Norway were still depending. I confess, when I heard that statement, it gave me considerable pleasure, because I did flatter myself that such discussions on the part of this country, and in the present posture of affairs, would be directed to one object only, and that that object would be conformable to the general sentiment and wish of the nation. I did flatter myself that ministers would take some steps to prevent, not to promote, the accomplishment of that horrible injustice by which an unoffending and independent people were to be bent to the dominion of a foreign power, which during a long course of years has been the unrelenting, unforgiving, and unremitting enemy of Norway. So strong and so deeply rooted is the national antipathy known to be, that the continued rivalry of Great Britain and France, of Spain and Portugal, or of any powerful nation seeking to oppress and subjugate its weaker neighbour, cannot for a moment be compared to the interminable inveteracy existing between the natives of Sweden and Norway. In ancient and in modern times it has been not only the policy, but the boast and pride of this country, that she has protected Norway against the repeated aggressions that Sweden made against her independence.797de jurede jure,de novo,796795794793792791Lord Grenville
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.816815814 said, in rising to propose an Address to the Prince Regent, in answer to the Message sent to their lordships' House, on the subject of a national grant for the support of the dignity and honours of the dukedom of Wellington, so little did he expect any opposition, that he might, in that view of the question, content himself with a bare statement of the nature of the grant which it was intended to submit to their lordships consideration at the proper period. But though he did not think it necessary to dwell at any great length on this topic, he could not, in justice to his own feelings, pass it over without a few observations.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.816815814The Earl of Liverpool
817 observed that by the few words he should say he meant not to interrupt the unanimous vote to which the House was about to proceed. Without wishing to enter into any comparative view of the merits of the great Juke of Marlborough, whom he regarded as one
817The Earl of Darnley
818l. expressed an opinion, that it would be far preferable to have the sum of 300,000818l.The Earl of Lauderdale
 concurred in the eulogies upon the merits of the illustrious duke; and adverted to the situation of the numerous sailors and soldiers who would thereby be thrown oat of employment, whose cases ought, as far as it was practicable, to be considered. Though he greatly wished that meritorious and gallant officers should meet with due honorary rewards, and he particularly estimated the professional characters of those on whom the honours of the peerage were recently conferred, yet he deprecated too extensive or frequent an addition to the members of that House, as militating against the principles of the constitution. He adverted to the long interval since the highest rank of the peerage was conferred; but expressed his satisfaction at the Prince Regent's having selected one so highly worthy of the honour as the duke of Wellington, as the first instance during so long a time. He highly approved of the proposed grant, and were the amount larger he should not object to it; but he thought the property so given should be secured, for the support of the high dignity conferred; and therefore was of opinion, that the estates should be entailed, with a reversion to the crown on failure of issue; and he hoped that when the Bill was in its progress, some provision or bar to that effect would be introduced.The Duke of Norfolk
nem. dis.819 would trouble the House with a very few words: it was perfectly in their lordships' recollection, that sir Thomas Graham had been, during a considerable period, the second in command in Spain and Portugal; and he continued in this station till the moment when he was the first to plant the British standard on the territory of France. The state of his health then compelled him to tender his resignation; but the distinguished part which he had performed in the campaigns of the peninsula was a sufficient reason for recommending him to the attention of parliament on the present occasion. When the counter-revolution
nem. dis.819The Earl of Liverpool
nem. dis. observed shortly, that sir Rowland, now lord Hill, had borne a distinguished command under the duke of Wellington during the whole of the operations in the peninsula. His conduct had invariably received the high approbation of that illustrious commander, and had equally ensured him the love and respect of the whole army. To him, in case any separate operation was to be carried on, lord. Wellington was in the constant habit of entrusting the command, as an officer in whom he placed the most entire confidence. His lordship concluded by moving an Address to the Prince Regent, concurring in the object of the Message, for making a provision for lord Hill; which was agreed to, nem. dis.The Earl of Liverpool
820 observed, that the services of sir William Carr, now lord Beresford, were well known to all their lordships. He had, however, the peculiar merit of having trained and rendered efficient the Portuguese army; the soldiers of which, under his judicious management, had fought in line, with the British troops, and had justly earned that meed of approbation which had been awarded them; they having been scarcely to be distinguished in their conduct from the soldiers of the British army. His
820The Earl of Liverpool
 said a few words relative to the situation of officers in the army and navy who had served their country with zeal and fidelity, and whose merits ought not now to be disregarded.The Duke of Norfolk
 said, that the subject of half-pay was now under the consideration of government; and he had no doubt that some measure would be adopted, with a view to the comfort of the meritorious individuals to whom the noble duke had alluded.The Earl of Liverpool
 considered the statement of the noble earl who moved the Address, relative to the recent danger of Europe, as very correct; and it was matter of exultation, that they had not only annihilated the conquests, but had destroyed the power, of one of the vilest tyrants that ever existed, who made war merely for the pleasure of carrying it on, and for the purpose of making military establishments to injure mankind. He approved of the intended grant to the duke of Wellington, which he thought he richly deserved. But the best monument of national gratitude, he thought, would consist in neither lands nor houses. They should recollect that lord Wellington had under his command soldiers—English, Scots, and Irish; and they were the men, in conjunction with his superior talents, who gained all his victories. Their future situation and comforts should be attended to. Among these soldiers, too, were many Catholics, who, now that the danger was over, should not be suffered to continue the objects of exclusion or oppression. Their lordships ought now to proceed to do justice to the Catholics, not in the spirit of prejudice, but with a prepossession in their favour. Great numbers would now be paid off; and it was the duty of their lordships to protect the soldiers and sailors who had fought their battles from those worst of human beings, pettifogging attornies, which their lordships would have an opportunity of doing by supporting his Bills.Earl Stanhope
, in a few words, bore testimony to the merits of lord Beresford.Viscount Mountjoy
 observed, that however unworthily the person in question might have pursued his object, still it was of consequence that the faith and law of the country should not be violated without strong necessity. These penalties had been sued for under the sanction of the law; and he thought the party suing ought at least to be indemnified for his own expences incurred in the prosecution.The Duke of Norfolk
l.l. said, that it was certainly a delicate proceeding; but that it had been the practice, at all times, when an informer made a vexatious abuse of a law which was intended for wholesome purposes, for the legislature to interfere, and shield those who were the objects of that vexatious abuse from the penalties incurred. If the House were justified, therefore, in depriving this person of his vested rights in penalties legally sued for, the same principle would justify them in interfering with respect to his costs. In case even, where a verdict had been obtained, in vexatious prosecutions, and 100l.l.The Lord Chancellor
 contended, that the necessity of the present Bill arose from the deficiencies of the 43d of the King, which it would be better to acknowledge wrong at once, than to persevere in from any false nations of consistency. Instead of an act of grace to the clergy, it had proved one of great hardship, especially from the technical description of residence, which he wished was got rid of. He did not mean to oppose the present Bill, because its object was to relieve a vast number of individuals from a prosecution which arose out of the errors of the legislature itself. Similar prosecutions, he feared, would be frequent, unless they departed from the principle of enforcing residence, or defined the nature of residence more accurately.Lord Holland
l. contended, that the 43d of the King, as far as the residence of the clergy was concerned, had been a very great improvement. The cases of hardship, before the pasting that Act, were numerous. He remembered two or three which came under his own notice; particularly one, of a clergyman who went down to his living in the country, and found a handsome parsonage-house, much larger than he wanted, as he had no family. An attorney in the place, with a large family, was living in a small convenient house, which he proposed to exchange with the clergyman, and reside at his parsonage. At the end of the twelve months, when the attorney was applied to for the difference of the rent, his answer was, I owe you nothing, but you owe me 110l.The Lord Chancellor
 was of opinion, that great relief had been afforded by that Bill; but, at the same time, much required to be done to give it a full and perfect operation. Nothing was more to be deplored, than that the inadvertence and misconduct of some of the clergy had given occasion to the present Bill; but it would be found, that its provisions separated the cases of vicious non-residence from those of mistake and neglect.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 was of opinion, that it would be impossible to enforce residence without making the failure of it penal.The Lord Chancellor
867 observed, that by
867The Duke of Norfolk
 observed, that when it was considered how vast a number of persons was concerned, and how various and infinite were the causes of residence and non-residence, it would hardly be possible, he apprehended, to accomplish all that might be desired, without confiding, a very large discretion in the bishops.Lord Ellenborough
 wished the whole matter of residence to be re-cast. It had been approached by the legislature with a very imperfect knowledge of the subject, and, as it stood at present, was full of defects.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that the principle of the provision was analogous to the usual practice of parliament.Lord Ellenborough
 adverted to the Petition upon the table against certain enactments in the Dulwich College Bill; and on the ground, principally, of its containing matter of which he was not sufficiently aware in the first instance,—he should move that the petitioners have leave to withdraw the Petition.The Duke of Norfolk
924 observed, he certainly had no objection to the Petition being withdrawn: whatever objections he felt were to its being received. He could not help remarking, that a clamour was industriously raised against the Bill now before the House. The Petition which his noble friend moved to have withdrawn alleged, that the petitioners were interested in the College of Dulwich; because, being of the name of Alleyne, they were eligible to the situation of wardens and masters; that was the same interest in the College, that all persons eligible to be so appointed had in other colleges. Such was one of the things of which the petitioners complained, and the reason stated for their being heard by counsel: it was not stated, that the present Bill so affected their interests, but that an Act passed some time ago had affected their interests. That Act was one which was allowed to have materially benefited the interests of Dulwich College. The Petition, he also remarked, went to cast a reflection, for which there was far from existing any ground, not only upon those who came forward on the occasion, but upon some of the best characters to be found in the history of the country; involving with respect to them, a charge, by implication, no less than the subornation of perjury. He must naturally be pleased at hearing such a petition
924Lord Holland
, in explanation, stated the way in which the Petition came into his hands. He seemed to admit that part of the language of the Petition alluded to by his noble friend, might be so construed, though they did not strike him so, nor did he think such a reflection was meant to be cast by the petitioners; but as he deemed it so far improper; he was inclined to propose its being withdrawn.The Duke of Norfolk
962 could not permit this subject to pass without saying a few words, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble and learned lord. He must say, that, with respect to the antiquity of imprisonment under mesne process, it was better known to the noble and learned lord and to his noble friend (earl Stanhope) than to himself; but there was nothing
962Lord Holland
 put the question from the woolsack; when a division was called for, and strangers were ordered to withdraw.The Lord Chancellor
"Who share with knaves in cheating fools!""you pettifoggers! dame your souls!959l.l.l.l.l.958957956 rose to
"Who share with knaves in cheating fools!""you pettifoggers! dame your souls!959l.l.l.l.l.958957956Earl Stanhope
l.l.961l.l.s.l.l.960 repeated his assertion on a former evening, that the recital in the preamble of the Bill introduced by the noble lord—namely, that mesne process was contrary to the ancient law of the
l.l.961l.l.s.l.l.960Lord Ellenborough
1026, previous to his moving the judgment of the House, shortly addressed their lordships upon the nature of this case. It appeared, that James Scott and others were the conductors on an insurance for the militia at Dundee in the year 1808. On the 5th of January in the same year, there was a proceeding had upon a ballot for the militia for the county of Inverness; and M'Intosh (a poor foxhunter) and Macdonald were named as persons who were to serve; in consequence of which the latter was now serving himself and the former by substitute, in the militia. It was, however, stated on the part of the respondent, that they applied to the appellants and paid the price of their insurance; in consequence of which an instrument was delivered to them, bearing date the 11th January that year. Looking to the instrument itself, the nature of the policy was, either to find a substitute, or pay the penalty to which the respondents would be liable if they should, from the date thereof, be drawn as men to serve in the militia; and therefore in itself could not bind the insurers to any occurrence of that sort prior to the 11th of January. But it had been stated, though not so clearly as it might have been, that these parties did, in fact, effect their insurance on the 2d of January, and received a document in evidence of their doing so from a clerk; but which they delivered up upon receiving the more formal one of the 11th of January. The noble and learned lord expressed himself as feeling very much for persons situated like the respondents; and regretted that, upon principles of law, he did not see how in this case they could with propriety be relieved. Because, though a proceeding had taken place on the 2d January, for the ballot of militiamen, it seemed an illegal one, and a mode that was not suggested by any one of the militia statutes; and certainly the insurers were not liable to pay, if the respondents were not bound to serve. Much had been said about a number of other cases which would be
1026The Lord Chancellor
 remarked, that the law against illegal insurances did not apply to the period of this transaction.The Lord Chancellor
 thought that insurances for the militia were rendered illegal.The Earl of Hardwicke
1068 could not, in justice to the merits of this subject, permit the observations of the noble earl to pass without some remarks, even upon the present occasion. It was not his intention to state his sentiments at length; but he would venture to say, that when the measure to which the noble lord had alluded came under their consideration, he should be able to shew that some of the propositions he laid down this night were, instead of being incontrovertible, completely absurd. The noble earl had, in the outset of his statement, intimated, that the measure was one intended by those who proposed it to raise the price of bread, and to do injury to the poor. He
1068The Earl of Lauderdale
 felt a degree of reluctance in troubling their lordships at the present moment with any observations on any topic connected with the Treaty just laid before them; but he could not avoid assuring the noble baron, that he was quite mistaken, if he supposed that his Majesty's ministers did not feel, on this particular subject, as much anxiety and solicitude as he could, to effect the completion of the great object in question; he meant the universal abolition of the Slave Trade; for they were sensible, whatever difference of opinion might have formerly obtained with regard to a partial abolition, yet that point being once decided, they felt it essential to the principle upon which it proceeded, that the abolition should become universal. With regard to the particular article referred to, and the circumstances under which it was concluded, he meant not at present to observe; but he would request their lordships to postpone their judgments until they had an opportunity of fully hearing the sentiments of his Majesty's government upon the subject.The Earl of Liverpool
 was not inclined to differ with the noble earl who had just sat down, and had stated, that one of the observations he made was an absurd one; for he (earl S.) had never uttered it; but the noble earl (Lauderdale) having no such windmills of his (earl S.), he had created windmills of his own, for the purpose of combating them. He had never changed any set of men with the intention of increasing the price of bread, and injuring the poor; but their measure would have that effect, and they had blundered into it. The noble earl had also contended, that the price of labour had nothing to do with that of provisions. His argument was for an inverse ratio, that the lower the price of provisions the higher would be that of labour. He might go on; but that was inexplicable to his mind. As to the different systems he had alluded to, one of them was tried when there was scarcely any national debt; but that made a wide difference in respect to the present times, when the country was loaded with an enormous debt, and had to support the interest by taxes.Earl Stanhope
1067, some time afterwards, rose for the purpose of presenting a number of petitions against the proposed ateration of the Corn Laws. He presented them with great pleasure to their lordships' consideration, because he was convinced that the intended measure on this subject was absurd—it was far from being well considered—it was unfounded in its principle, and would be injurious in its consequences. It was calculated to raise the price of provisions, and consequently, to increase the price of labour; and then their lordships ought to calculate the injury which such a system would do to the manufacturer of the country, who would thereby be disabled from coming at a moderate rate into the market. Besides, their lordships should reflect, that if our manufactures were enhanced by the high price of provisions and of labour, steam-engines would be set to work in other countries; and even the most able workmen here, who had brought our manufactures to such a prosperous state, would be induced to go abroad, and then our manufactures would no longer come into competition with those of foreign nations. If our manufactures were thus injured, our commerce would be injured also;—and if our commerce were to be injured, we should lose the only foundation upon which rest the strength and glory of our navy. That this would be the effect of the intended system, was obvious; and that the price of labour would be high in proportion to the price of provisions, was incontrovertible.—(Hear, hear! from the earl of Lauderdale.)—Said lord Stanhope, "the noble lord near me may cry Hear, hear! but though I cannot comment upon his speech, because he has not made any, I can comment upon his book, where he has delivered his sentiments." In referring to the arguments of those who recommended this measure of raising the price of bread, one point laid down by them was, that if free importation were permitted, it would discourage the growth of corn in this country; and then if it should happen that, when we had not got a field of corn of our own, foreign countries should take the advantage of our situation, and stop the importation, we should be immediately reduced to a state of famine, and consequently be ruined. It was, however, not his intention to lose sight of certain provisions which would protect
1067Earl Stanhope
 said, he could not suffer this very first opportunity to pass, without stating that it was with the utmost grief and indignation he had read that part of the Treaty in question which related to the abolition of the Slave-Trade. When he recollected the unanimous acquiescence of that House in a proposition which he had the honour to submit to their lordships upon the subjects—when he recollected the universal consent of almost all nations, that it was most desirable to prevent the continuance of that most abominable and disgraceful traffic—when he considered that it had been relinquished by all the nations of Europe, upon the common principles of justice and religion, as a high crime, and as a practice which should be radically done away with—what must be his astonishment and regret, his grief and disappointment, upon reading the article that morning to which he alluded! He trusted, however, it would be a matter of speedy and serious consideration, whether there might not be even yet some mode in which parliament, or their lordships, might act in pursuance of their unanimous resolution, with a view to the attainment of its object.Lord Grenville
