 Mr. Blackburn  presented ten petitions from different parts of Lancashire; amongst them was the petition from Manchester, which was signed by 54,000 inhabitants. On this being presented,
 Mr. Calvert , on presenting the petition from the borough of Southwark, observed, that the shortness of the time had only enabled 7,500 inhabitants to sign it; but there was no doubt that the petition which would be prepared for another place, would be signed by more than three times that number. He took that opportunity of adding, that the object of this petition was not to entreat consideration whether 76 s s
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that it was not without some uneasiness he rose on this occasion. He thought the petition must show the unanimous opinion entertained of the Bill in this large manufacturing town. He begged the House also to observe, that the petition was not urged by any want of attachment to the government; for during the most pressing periods of the war, the people of Manchester had abstained from all complaints, because they had hoped that the return of peace, whenever it might arrive, would cause a cessation of their burthens. He had witnessed their feelings on former occasions with great uneasiness, as they arose from a want of bread; but when they were told that it would be injurious to publish their complaints, they submitted to their hard condition with the most praiseworthy silence. He considered the present Bill as the most injurious and unprecedented measure which had occurred in his time, as it went to affect an immensely numerous and loyal body of people, who had supported government by their labour and the advantages derived from its exercise. Was it, then, to be endured, that ministers should lend themselves to such a measure? He would tell them that they had but one interest to consult, and that was, to support the labourer in manufacturing industry. Was it intended that we should for the future only live on the produce of our land? If so, what would become of the resources from our manufactures, when our machinery should be lost? He was persuaded our manufacturers would not sit still and see their trade frittered away and destroyed: they would go abroad and exert themselves where their labour would be properly appreciated, and enable them to procure the necessaries of life. He, however, yet hoped, that as the injurious tendency of the measure must now be evident, it would not be suffered to proceed, but that ministers would convince the anxious multitude that they were alive to their real and vital interests. The fact
 [8
 Mr. Cawthorne  said a few words in explanation of his former opinion, relative to the change in the people's minds upon the
 9]
 Sir R. Peel  replied to an observation which fell from Mr. Cawthorne, respecting his not having an accurate knowledge of the opinions of the people of Lancashire, in consequence of his not having resided for some time in that county, by asserting, that although he had been partially absent from the county, he would have the hon. gentleman understand that his great capital had been constantly employed in it, and had contributed to the support of the people, whose sentiments he could not but know as well as any man.
 Mr. Baring  wished to take this opportunity of saying that he believed a more numerous, respectable, and unanimous meeting had never been assembled, than that at which the present petition was agreed to. He entirely concurred in the sentiments stated in that petition. He believed that the measure now in progress through the House, was substantially a
 [10
 Mr. Home Summer  presented a petition from the inhabitants of Croydon against the Bill, and observed, that as he had already brought up one from the same place of a different tendency, he could not but regret that while he performed his duty, he should have to differ in his opinion from any portion of his constituents.
 Mr. Yorke  presented a petition from the corporation of the conservators of the Bedford Level, stating their distressed state, and praying for an alteration in the corn laws. It was rather too much for gentlemen who took the opposite side of the question, to say that they expressed the sentiments of the people. That they expressed the sentiments of a part, he was willing to admit. How easy was it to get petitions signed in great towns like London? The agriculturists had not the same opportunities of coming forward as the inhabitants of great towns. The sense of the people was much divided on this question, and it was therefore a proper subject for the decision of parliament. If the agriculturists could be collected together to petition, the difference in number would not be great. The petitioners had redeemed between 3 and 400,000 acres of land from the water, under the guarantee of parliament, and they now claimed its protection.
 Mr. Baring  said, it seemed to be held out by those who favoured the present Bill, that the agriculturists were all on its side. Now, he would maintain, for he had had communications from various respectable quarters on the subject, that the tenantry and labourers in general felt no interest whatever in the price at which the protecting duty should be fixed—[Hear, hear!].—He would repeat it, that the labourers in agriculture, and even the
 [12 s s s
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he should be happy to give the hon. gentleman every information in his power, but at present he was not able to intimate to him when any communication on the subject referred to was likely to be made from the Prince Regent. When he should know such a message was to be brought down, he would not fail to give due notice of it. If, before this was done, the hon. gentleman should wish to obtain information on any particular point, he thought it would be best, that he should raise some question—that after some days had elapsed, he should call for that which he thought necessary. The hon. gentleman would certainly understand that, under present circumstances, the explanations which he (lord Castlereagh) could give, would be in many respects limited. If, however, the hon. gentleman called for any information which he might consider desirable, it would enable him (lord Castlereagh) to state what disclosures he could make without injury to the public service. At present he could only say, though the proceedings were not closed, yet much had been done; and it was important to add, that what was done, had been done with the general concurrence of all the great Powers, who had made every arrangement for upholding those decisions which had been dictated by the common interest of all. All the great points in which this country was especially concerned, had been met by all the Powers in a spirit of peace, and arranged perfectly to his satis-
 [14
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that whatever communications the Crown might have to make, would be made at the proper period; but if the hon. gentleman wished for any information in the present instance, he was at liberty to call for it; and he might be enabled in that case to state how the business of the Congress now stood, and whether that which the hon. gentleman, might desire should be produced, could or could not be given. That which had been done, had not yet received its full ratification. Most important questions had been decided, and the determinations of the Congress had been reduced to articles; but these not having yet been ratified, could not be produced. What had been done, had been done (he repeated it) with the concurrence of all the great Powers, and every thing had been satisfactorily arranged that regarded the peculiar interests of this country.
 Lord Castlereagh  had not intended to assert this, but in the present state of
 15]
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  rose to object to it. He said, that improper motives had been imputed to the landed proprietors; but, however faulty their motives might have been, the blame was more attributable to the Government, who had given their sanction to the measure, when their duty ought to have pointed out to them that they had no right or business to interfere between two parties so situated as were the landed proprietors and the manufacturing interests; nay, indeed, as appeared from the innumerable petitions, he might say between the landed interest and a vast majority of the whole nation. But he must now call the attention of the House to the real question, which was this. The Government wanted to wind up the expenses of the war; the sum was no less than 20,000,000 l [16 s 17]
 Mr. Horace St. Paul  declared, that he would not have troubled the House with the expression of his sentiments, but for the precipitation that marked this measure in every stage of its progress—precipitate he would call it, with respect to the country, in not affording the people an opportunity of expressing their opinions on the subject—precipitate, likewise, as it respected the members of parliament, in not granting them a sufficient time to form their judgment—and, finally, he conceived it precipitate even for the ministers, from the imputation that might be cast on them, of hurrying it, as if they were apprehensive of its justice and policy: and certainly such an opinion might naturally be entertained, for the refusal of a reasonable time to examine its expediency, displayed symptoms of such an apprehension. He had now risen to enter his protest against their proceedings, and after having given the most anxious consideration to the subject, he had arrived at this conclusion, that all legislation on the article of corn was in the present instance unwise and premature; and, however he might think a protecting price ultimately necessary for the farmer, he would oppose such a law, while we were still ignorant of the veal state of the affairs of Europe. At present it was impossible to decide on this question; and it might be esteemed somewhat presumptuous to settle a price before we could ascertain the state of our currency, and our various relations with other powers. We were now proceeding in darkness and ignorance, without even that knowledge to direct us which we might have expected from its being made a ministerial question. But what must have been the surprise of the House to find that the speech of the right hon. gentleman who so modestly introduced this measure, contained no information on the subject—nothing new—nothing to instruct. The hon. member next observed, that the evils suffered last year by the agriculturists no longer existed; there was now no glut of foreign corn in the market, no property-tax, and the war with America was now terminated; these circumstances should weigh considerably in the decision of this question. The House likewise should consider who those persons were that promoted this measure, who the committee were that sat on the subject. Many of them were prejudiced
 [18 s s s l. s s s s., s 19]
 Mr. Vyse  declared himself to be friendly to the interests of the agriculturist, which it was his intention to support, not from any partial or unworthy motive, but because, if some measure like that before the House were not followed up, the state would be menaced with the greatest danger. He was convinced, that the effect of the measure would be, not to make bread dear, but to make it permanently cheap. The Bill before the House had been, in his opinion, met with unmerited reprobation within doors, and with machinations and contrivances without. If a bill protecting the agriculturist, were not sanctioned by that House, the consequence would be, that Trance, who could not fight this country in a time of war, would have the power of starving her in a period of peace. From one end of the country to the other, if the object and intention of the Bill were clearly explained—if its merits were fairly described—if it were shown to be a measure, as it really was, which would benefit no class in particular, bat would be useful to all—then he was sure that a greater number of persons would express themselves in favour of the proposed alteration, than had been induced to declare their hostility to it. Much clamour had been unfairly excited against the Bill; but if the clamour were ten times greater, he would support it. He felt it his duty, after coolly and conscien-
 [20 s s
 Mr. Ellison  supported the motion, and observed, that the assize of bread rendered the price of that necessary of life higher in London than in the country. He thought the amount of the protecting price was comparatively of little consequence. If 76 s 21]
 Lord Castlereagh  said not as a minister certainly.
 Mr. St. Paul  explained. He meant not to attribute any ill intention to the members of that House. He had spoken merely of the probable effect of the Bill, without any improper reference to the motives of those who supported it.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he had been much misunderstood by the gallant general, but
 23]
 Mr. Buller  stated, that he had in his hand a petition, signed by 20,000 persons, from the place which he had the honour to represent, against any alteration in the present corn laws. He hoped the House would not act precipitately.
 Sir W. W. Wynn  contended, that it was absolutely necessary something should be done for the relief of the cultivators of the soil. He should certainly vote for the Bill going into a committee, although he would not pledge himself to the adoption of any particular protecting price. He was inclined to think that 75 s
 Mr. Robinson  rose, to propose that the blank should be filled up, by inserting the sum of 80 s
 Mr. Courtenay  supported the amendment. He had conversed with many members on this subject; and neither from conversations, nor from any thing that had fallen in that House, was he able to learn upon what grounds any member had fixed upon 80 s s s s s [26
 Mr. Western  expressed his anxiety to go to the utmost possible extent, short of rendering the measure a nullity, in order to make it one of conciliation. He felt how important it was to convince the people of the fact, namely, that parliament were legislating as much for their interest as for that of any particular class of the community; but he would not consent to give up the efficacy of the Bill for the purpose of consulting a temporary feeling. His persuasion on the subject was founded, not on theory, but on experience, and that the experience of nearly a century. For 79 years, during which period the duty on the importation of foreign corn amounted almost to a prohibition, corn in this country was at a price lower than it had been at anterior, and than it was at subsequent periods. This was a fact on which the opponents of the measure ought to dwell. One hon. gentleman who had noticed it, attributed it to the poverty of the country at that time, but of this there was no proof. On they contrary, from 1710 (the period at which the system he had described was in full operation) down to 1764, not only did agriculture improve, but commerce and manufactures kept pace with it. Agriculture had, in fact, so much improved within that interval, that bread was cheaper than it had been at any anterior or subsequent periods, while our exports and imports had advanced from 10 to 25,000,000 l. 27]
 Mr. Baring  was proceeding to animadvert on the observations of Mr. Western, when
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that if the hon. gentleman had bestowed a little more consideration upon his motion, he would have been aware that it was not in a committee that it ought to be brought forward. The hon. gentleman should also have taken the pains of informing himself, whether this military force which he had seen was or was not under the command of a civil magistrate. [Hear, hear!] He might have also informed himself what was the cause of the civil magistrate having called in the aid of the military, and whether it was not in consequence of the House being surrounded by a numerous and tumultuous mob, who had been brought into the neighbourhood of the House of Commons for the purpose of menacing the members of that House. If this was the true state of the case, that magistrate had done his duty who had brought the military into the neighbourhood of the House. He hoped that the hon. gentleman would feel that it was highly proper to defend the civil power of the country; and what higher duty had that civil power to perform, than to defend the Parliament of the country from the menaces of a mob? If the members of that House were to be intimidated in the discharge of their public duties by the clamour and menaces of a mob, they would soon cease to be the representatives of the people, and would be degenerated and degraded to the condition of being themselves a part of that mob. He hoped, before the hon. member gave the countenance of his name to a complaint; against the employment of the military, that he would be satisfied they had been called out in an unconstitutional manner, and not for the due support of the civil power, and the protection of the independence of Parliament.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the force was called out in aid of the civil magistrate, and not with a view to menace the members, of arliament.
 Mr. W. Fitzgerald  stated, that when he came down to attend his duty in the House, he saw no military force, but he
 29]
 Lord Castlereagh  concurred in the propriety of this suggestion, and said it would certainly be proper for the House to be informed of the facts which had occurred, from due authority.
 Mr. Fitzgerald,  on hearing of the danger to which his hon. friend had been exposed, had proceeded with ten or twelve peace officers to his rescue. With this force he had attempted to effect his passage as far as the carriage-way, but such were the numbers and the strength of the mob, that they could not be penetrated.
 Mr. Ponsonby  conceived that the first step to be taken was to ascertain what had been done by the civil power which had the charge of the avenues without the House, and what degree of civil force had been called in. On constitutional principles, the military force ought not to have been called in, if the civil power were sufficient for the protection of the House and its members.
 The Attorney General  said, it so happened, that he was perhaps the last member who had entered the House by its usual avenues. To avoid passing through the throng, he drove to the entrance-gate of Westminster-hall. When his carriage arrived there, the door was opened, and he was asked who he was, by numbers, who also insisted on knowing how he meant to vote on the Corn Bill. He was aware, that for years past he had been too well known in Westminster to be able to disguise himself. He was never ashamed of his name, nor could he conceal it; and many, probably, knew him well enough. He said to the people, 'I won't deceive you, nor will I state what my vote will be. I shall certainly act according to the dictates of my conscience, after hearing this measure fully discussed. Unless you pursue a different conduct, you, and all
 33]
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that as the proper course of proceeding was now before them, it was best to postpone all observations for the present.
 Mr. Baker , a magistrate of the Marl-borough-street Police-office, was then Called in; and, in answer to the questions put to him by Mr. Speaker, stated, "That he is a police magistrate of the Marl-borough-street office; that inconsequence of the direction of the Speaker, as well as from lord Sidmouth, he attended at the House of Commons at two o'clock, with 50 constables; he understood the particular duty assigned to him by the Speaker to be, the care of the stone lobby, and the stone stair-case, and that the avenues between were kept clear. "That he does not know that any person has been taken into custody for a breach of the peace, within the avenues of the House: that he had not seen any actual assault; but there was a great deal of hooting and hallooing in the street opposite to the Abbey." [36
 Mr. Kinnaird , a magistrate of the Thames Police-office at Wapping, was then called in; and, in answer to the questions put to him by Mr. Speaker, stated, "That he is a magistrate of the Thames Police-office at Wapping, and received orders last night to bring up the establishment to-day, to preserve the peace at Westminster: it was ordered by lord Sidmouth, that one magistrate from each office should attend him at twelve o'clock this day; he had himself been here the greater part of the day; some of his constables waiting from two o'clock at the Temple-bar, and the rest of his party was stationed from Parliament-street to Charing-cross: the establishment of the Thames Police-office is about 50 constables or thereabouts; some of them were placed in Westminster-hall, some at the side entrance and other avenues near the House: he observed the disturbance and anxiety of the mob to get into the avenues to the House; he saw no obstruction to members, and was not called upon to give assistance to any other magistrate: he was at the bottom of the stone stairs within side, about 10 o'clock; when outside he saw no pushing, shoving, or hooting: he did not come in the place of sir Nathaniel Conant; his station was sometimes inside, sometimes outside; when occasionally outside, he was attended by some of his peace officers; he is uncertain whether he saw any members go in or come out; he saw no persons obstructed." And then he was directed to withdraw.
 Mr. Birnie , a magistrate of the public office Bow-street, was then called in; and, in answer to the questions put to him by Mr. Speaker, staled, "That he is a police magistrate at the Bow-street office; he attended at three o'clock with 40 constables; most of them were placed in Palace-yard; some were at the side entrance, where he saw a great mob, and many
 37]
 Lord Castlereagh  rose again and said, that the evidence appeared quite sufficient to establish the necessity of the interposition of the military for the protection of the members of parliament. Whether the conduct of the magistracy had been as vigilant as possible, was a point that might become a question of inquiry. A future day might be appointed, with a view to inquire into that matter, and to provide more certainly for the security of members upon future occasions. He then moved that the minutes be printed.
 Lord Castlereagh  was convinced the hon. gentleman had no other motive for the course which he had pursued than that just jealousy which ought to be entertained of the employment of a military force, where the exertion of the civil power might be deemed insufficient.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the House under great obligations to the hon. gentleman. The discussion was necessary, that the House might show its just constitutional jealousy. Though satisfied on the chief point, yet he thought the conduct of the magistrates open to inquiry. They did not appear to have been sufficiently active, and he thought they should be admonished by the Speaker, and desired to pay a strict regard to their duty in future, since a similar inconvenience might recur even to-morrow.
 Lord Castlereagh  was adverse to any such proceeding this evening, as the attendance of these magistrates might he necessary at their several stations. He however observed, that no absolute blame appeared to him fairly imputable to the conduct of the magistrates.
 Mr. Baring  required to know upon what ground it was that 80 s
 Lord Castlereagh  contended strenuously that 80 s 39]
 Mr. Baring  replied to the speech of the noble lord, which he considered as the least argumentative and the most declamatory that had been delivered on the subject.
 The Speaker  entreated the hon. member, in a matter of such deep importance, to abstain from all argument or narration, unless he had something material to say on the subject.
 The Speaker  suggested the propriety of also calling Mr. Baker, the Marlborough-street magistrate, to the bar, as, besides the communication which he had made to the High Bailiff of Westminster, he had also applied to that gentleman.
 Mr. Speaker  then desired to state to the
 31]
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  expressed himself in favour of the amendment. He had been informed, by several farmers, and he believed it to be the fact, that the measure would be of no service to them, though it would essentially benefit the great landholders.
 Mr. Barclay  presented one from the manor of Clapham, signed by 7,700 persons.
 Mr. Brooke  supported the amendment.
 Mr. Protheroe  supported the amendment. It would afford an opportunity for considering whether a medium price might not be taken, which would relieve the agiculturists, and yet meet the general feeling of the country. As to the observation of a ferment being not easy to be appeased, he would certainly say, that the appearance of precipitation was not the best way of appeasing it.
 Mr. Philips  said, that the petitions before them were a complete answer to the idea that the minds of the people were changed. Upon no question were their opinions so unanimous. It had, indeed, been said that popular clamour was raised on this occasion, which was rather a curious term from a representative to his constituents. At all events, the present petition had no tendency to inflame, it was argumentative and rational; it came, in fact, from a quarter not remarkable for public meetings; for the practice at Manchester was, if a requisition was transmitted to the proper officer to convene a meeting, a counter one was also sent by a greater number of persons, and consequently no meeting was assembled. This practice he strongly reprobated; it went to discountenance the fair and constitutional expression of public feeling. What rendered the present petition of greater value was, that it was signed by those who heretofore objected to general meetings. A great deal had been said of the sufferings of the agriculturist. On this point he would only say, that an artificial extension of what was called their protection would increase their sufferings. Whatever public evil existed, the manufacturer bore his part of the pressure: his wages were getting lower, as the petition stated, and were likely to continue so. Great manufacturing and commercial distress prevailed, to the vital injury of those undeniable sources of national wealth and prosperity. The petitioners had further stated, that artisans were rapidly emigrating to France; and what would not be the consequence of an increase of those emigrations? The hon. member concluded by adverting to the enormous increase of the manufacturing population of Lancashire. In the year 1690 it amounted but to 234,805; it was now 828,000. Such an increase was entitled to the serious reflection of the House.
 Lord Lascelles  presented a similar petition from Leeds, subscribed by 24,000 persons; and petitions from Wakefield, Pontefract, and some other places in the West Riding of Yorkshire. He said, he believed there was a very general disapprobation of the Bill in the manufacturing districts.
 General Gascoyne  repeated his previous observations, and said, that the proof of their truth was to be found in the 118,000 signatures and upwards, from that county alone.
 General Gascoyne  said, that as it seemed that no lower price would satisfy the supporters of the Bill than 80 s
 General Gascoyne  said, that he should follow the example of the right hon. gentleman. In proposing an amendment to the motion, he thought it unnecessary to repeat the arguments that had already been advanced; but in order to conciliate the feelings of the people with the measure proposed, he should move, as an amendment, that the blank should be filled up with the words 74 s s
 General Gascoyne  took occasion to observe, that when he had commented on the unpopularity of this measure in Lancashire, an hon. member for Lancaster had said, that the people were rather friendly than adverse to it. He would only ask whether the many thousands of names signed to all the petitions from those parts, did not prove directly the contrary? 7]
 Mr. Addington  concurred in this opinion, observing, that the principal magistrate, sir N. Conant, had been called away by riots in another quarter of the town. The right hon. gentleman vindicated the measures taken by the Executive.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  said, that so far from the signatures to the petition being only 40,000, upwards of 40,000 had signed it on Saturday. He had on Friday night earnestly intreated the House to postpone the second reading of the Bill; but the result was known. It really seemed as if the purpose of this precipitation was to prevent the petition from receiving three times the number of signatures that were already affixed to it. ['No, no,' from different parts of the House.] At all events, he said, it had that effect. The unanimous proceedings which had lately transpired, fortified the view which he had originally, taken upon this subject. This petition
 11]
 Mr. Calcraft  presented a petition from the inhabitants of Rochester, signed by 8,700 names. The hon. gentleman declared he fully concurred in the prayer of the petition, and hoped the House would even now find it necessary to pause in their precipitancy.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought that precipitation was altogether unjustifiable under the present circumstances, when the ports were shut for three months. He must observe, that on former occasions the legislature was not so precipitate. In 1773, the bill which was introduced on the 1st of December was not out of the House till the month of April. In 1791, the bill was brought in the 16th of December, and was not passed till the 27th of May following. In 1804, the bill was brought in the 14th of May, and although it was late in the session, it was not passed until the 26th of July. He thought that if the Bill could be arrested in its course, only for a few short days, as proposed by the hon. general, some terms of conciliation might be fixed on. The feeling of the people on this subject was well known; and although the legislature were not to be overawed by the expression of this feeling, yet the voice of the people was deserving their most serious attention. He denied that the price of grain was falling in the way many gentlemen had stated; and, in proof of his position, he quoted the returns published in the Gazette, from which it appeared, that in January last corn was 59 s s d
 Mr. Croker  explained, that when he said he had not seen any peace-officers, he meant on the outside of the door; for when he came from the House into the lower lobby, he then found abundance of them.
 Mr. Croker  said, that in coming to the House his carriage was surrounded by a tumultuous mob, who demanded his name, and requested to know how he proposed to vote, or how he had voted upon the Corn Bill? But to these questions he declined to make any reply. However, on his arrival at the door of the House, both doors of the carriage were opened, and he was dragged out by the collar. He then received several blows, his assailants exclaiming that they would not let him, go, unless he declared his name and promised to vote against the Corn Bill. This promise, however, he refused to give, and endeavoured, with all the strength of which be was capable, to release himself; which he did not think he should have succeeded in effecting, if it were not for the violence and confusion that prevailed among the mob, who struck at one another. Thus he contrived to escape from them, and made his way into the House through the coffee-room of the House of Lords, there being no other avenue unimpeded by the mob. At the time he was so treated, he saw no soldier whatever about the House; and he was sorry to say, that he derived no projection from any constables, who did not indeed seem competent to afford any adequate protection. Upon coming into the House he thought it his duty to communicate to the Speaker what he had just stated, adding, that he understood several other members had also been ill treated by the mob, and he believed that the introduction of a military force to aid the civil power had been the consequence of such communication. Were not such means taken for the protection of the members, he agreed with his noble friend in thinking, that it would be quite absurd to talk of the independence of that House, or to calculate upon the maintenance of its dignity, or capacity for free deliberation.
 Mr. Lambton  expressed himself satisfied with the explanation which had been afforded with regard to the employment of the military on this occasion, but vindicated his motives in bringing the business under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Lambton  then rose and complained to the House, that, in his way to the House this evening, he had been nearly rode over by a squadron of horse, who had formed themselves in front of the door of the House, and that the avenues thereto were beset by a military force; and that he thought it his duty to make this complaint, as he conceived it to be a breach of the constitution, and of the privileges of the House, that the military power should be in a situation to overawe their deliberations.
 Mr. Lambton  said, in reply to the noble lord, that in coming to perform his duty in the House, he found himself menaced by a military force, and considering this highly unconstitutional, he thought some explanation was due to Parliament.
 Mr. Lambton  rose, and stated, that on coming to the House in the discharge of his duty, he saw the avenues to it surrounded by the military force, which appeared to him so contrary to the princi-
 [28
 Mr. Marryatt  observed, that when the business was first introduced, the fact of no petitions having been presented against it, was advanced as an argument to prove
 [24
 Mr. Finlay  said, that coming down with a noble friend of his, they were surrounded by a tumultuous assemblage, just as they were getting out of the carriage. He himself was assailed with sticks, and his friend had his coat and waistcoat torn. The mob was such as could not be dispersed but by a military force.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  presented a petition against the Bill from Poole, which, he said, was numerously signed; not by manufacturers, for there were no persons of this description in the town, but by merchants and others, many of whom were considerable landholders. Me trusted, that if the House should agree to the Bill, the people would sit down quietly under it; but, for his own part, he would give it his utmost opposition.—The same hon. member gave notice of a motion relative to Wills; and also of another, for a Bill to abolish the punishment of the Pillory.
 Mr. Methuen  begged to assure the House, that the petitions he had presented that day were not signed by manufacturers alone, but that they contained the names of many land-owners, who were convinced of the injurious tendency of the measure.
 Mr. Morris  was then called in; and in answer to the questions put to him by Mr. Speaker, stated, "That yesterday he received a note from Mr. Becket (the under Secretary of State in the Home department); and, as directed, took measures for calling out all the civil force in his jurisdiction. That he ordered the high constable to issue precepts to call out all the petty constables, appointing them to be in attendance this day in various parts of Westminster: that the whole number of constables under his authority is about 80; and as many came as could come: they came between two and three o'clock; and are here now; he placed them himself, and has been here ever since; some were stationed in Westminster-hall, some in the stone lobby, some within the entrance doors; and they remained in their places as far as he could see. 35]
 Mr. Whitbread  thought that the Executive had done its duty, but was inclined to believe that the civil power had not been sufficiently active.
 Mr. Whitbread  was convinced that the military were not called in till it was necessary, but perhaps the civil power had not done its duty. He thought they had better continue this business then, and proceed with the Corn Bill on another day.
 Mr. Whitbread  thought the noble lord must have misunderstood the intent of his question. He had asked if he did not propose to give some information to the House; for whatever the noble lord might have been told by his colleagues, he (Mr. W.) did think the time was come when some information ought to be given from the Prince, or from the noble lord in his place, without being called for. From the answer he had received, he could hardly believe the noble lord was the man who had been at Vienna; for what had fallen from him was but a continuation of that system of evasion which had been practised in his absence. It would be most satisfactory to the House that the information to be given should come spontaneously from the noble lord; but if no communication was to be made to that House before the Easter holidays, he would certainly move for that which he thought necessary. He repeated, however, that it would be best that the noble lord should give what he thought himself at liberty to offer, and it would then be for the House to determine whether or not that was sufficiently ample and satisfactory.
 Mr. Whitbread  wished to know if he was to understand, that at any given time, the noble lord would lay any information before the House, as a minister, or as a member of parliament?
 Mr. Whitbread  inquired if he was to understand, that unless some member moved for information, the noble lord proposed to remain altogether silent on these great subjects?
 Mr. Whitbread  did not rise to object to the Speaker's leaving the chair, but there were other orders of the day on which he wished to obtain some information. He desired to know, if the discussion on the Corn Bill should last long, how it was intended to dispose of the question on the renewal of the Bank Restriction Act. And he desired particularly to know what the noble lord opposite (lord Palmerston) meant to do in that case with the Mutiny Bill? While he was on his legs, seeing the noble viscount in the blue ribbon (Castlereagh) in his place, he wished to ask if the time for making those disclosures which had been called for, but withheld in his absence, was at hand, and if they might soon expect him to come down with a message from the Prince Regent on the subject of his late important mission?
 Mr. Whitbread  presented similar petitions from Derby, Great Bedwin, and Hammersmith.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, it appeared the police officers were placed where they ought not to have been, instead of the place in which they could have been of service.
 Mr. Whitbread  was not at all surprised that his hon. friend, on discovering a military force in the neighbourhood of the House, should have taken the earliest opportunity of stating that fact in his place; and if he had done so with warmth, he considered that warmth as venial, inasmuch as he was ignorant of the manner in which they had come there. He concurred with the noble lord and the right hon. gentleman, that if a tumultuous mob had insulted the members of that House on their approach to it, and the civil power was incompetent to repel those insults, it was proper the aid of the military should be called in. Bat he thought it was due to the dignity of the House to be informed what had taken place, to induce the Speaker to issue the mandate to which allusion had been made. With this view of the case, he thought the best course to be pursued would be for the chairman to report progress, and ask leave to sit again. The Speaker would then have an opportunity of taking the chair, and explaining, no doubt to the satisfaction of the Mouse, how it was that the military had been called in. The hon. gentleman concluded by moving,—That the chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, after this statement, the House must be satisfied that a military force had not been called in without sufficient cause. The hon. Secretary of the Admiralty, however, having stated, that the civil power had neglected to perform their duty, he thought it was essential that the House should examine into that circumstance. He should, therefore, pro-
 [32
 Mr. Whitbread  then gave notice, that on an early vacant day he would raise a question on the subject of the noble viscount's mission, which would give the noble viscount an opportunity of laying before the House such information as he might give consistently with his duty.
 Lord Compton  entered into a short statement, to prove the fallacy of the arguments adduced by an hon. baronet (sir James Shaw) on a former night. He contended that the hon. Báronet's  data
 Mr. Cartwright  spoke in favour of going into the committee, which was the proper place for settling what the protecting price ought to be. He was extremely surprised that any gentleman should use the language he had heard in that House. It was said, by an hon. member, that it was intended, by this measure, to starve the people. Such assertions, be knew, were calculated to occasion a ferment in the public mind; but he would beg gentlemen to recollect, that when a ferment was once raised, it was not an easy matter to cool it. He again pressed upon the House the necessity of going into the committee, where they might deliberate on
 [22
 Mr. William Smith  declared, that he had often told his constituents that on a question of a local nature he should solicitously obey their instructions, but that on one affecting the whole community, while he listened to their opinion, he must be permitted to exercise his own judgment. In this case, however, although he had not
 25] s
 Sir Frederick Flood  declared, that he had been carried above a hundred yards on the shoulders of the mob, just like mackarel from Billingsgate-market, and that he thought they meant to quarter him. [A laugh.]
 Sir James Shaw  warmly applauded the temper of the meeting from which the petition emanated. It was carried with the utmost and most unexampled unanimity.
 Sir Robert Heron  shewed the skirt of his coat, which hung nearly torn from the body, and said, that besides this he could shew other visible marks of the treatment he had received. Instead of finding the mob as patient and mild as the hon. and learned Attorney General, he had experienced nothing but the most brutal treatment, and after having been buffeted about like a shuttlecock between two battledores, he escaped, with great difficulty, to tell his tale. [A laugh.] He said, he had not intended to deliver any sentiment on the subject, though his opinion on it had been long decided. But now, when it was attempted to terrify the House into submission to a mob, he should think himself unworthy a seat in that
 [34
 Sir Samuel Romilly  presented a similar petition from Westbury. He concurred entirely in the sentiments of the persons petitioning, and thought the present one of the most-injurious measures ever brought forward in that House. He lamented exceedingly that such an important subject should be carried through with such precipitation, and that they should appear unwilling to hear the sentiments of the country.
 Sir William Curtis  rose to present a Petition, signed by 40,000, and upwards, of the merchants, bankers, and traders of the city of London. There never was assembled a more orderly meeting; attempts were made to introduce extraneous topics for its consideration, which the good sense of the assembly altogether rejected. It was composed, said the worthy alderman, of all parties in the city, Whig and Tory, High-church and Low-church, Dissenter and Non-conformist. The worthy baronet contended that the representatives of the people of England should not shut their ears to the people's voice.
 Lord Palmerston , in answer to the question put to him, said, if the discussion on the Corn Bill should not take up much of the time of the House, it was his intention to proceed with the Mutiny Bill that evening. If, however, the House should be occupied till a late hour in the committee, he was willing to postpone it to a future day.
 Mr. Bennet  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for the appointment of a select committee, to inquire into the state of the King's-bench, Fleet, and Marshalsea prisons. It would be in the recollection of the House, he said, that a committee of inquiry had been appointed in the last year to examine into the state of the gaol of Newgate and other gaols in the city of London; and the attention of this committee had been the means of relieving the great distress, which prevailed among the inmates of those receptacles of the unfortunate. Although those prisons were not yet in such a state as they ought to be, he conceived the interference of the House had done much towards correcting the evils which existed. The first prison which he wished to bring under the notice of the committee was the King's-bench prison. This prison was under the immediate care of the Chief Justice; and from the papers which were on the table of the House, it appeared that on the 1st December, 1814, there were no less than 837 persons in the custody of the marshal; of whom 600 were collected within the walls, the rest being dispersed in the Rules. And yet from the evidence submitted to the House of Lords, when an inquiry took place into this subject, the prison did not appear to be calculated for the reception of more than 200 or 220 persons. He could also tell the House, that the individuals confined in this prison had no allowance of food, of fuel, or of bedding; nor was there any medical attendant appointed to administer to their wants in the hour of disease. Added to this, the fees were extremely high, amounting to one pound three or four shillings going out and in. According to the
 [40 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 41]
 Mr. Bennet  dwelt upon the utility resulting from the discussion of military law in that House, especially in the discouragement and diminution of corporal punishment in the army. Of the nature and extent of this horrible infliction he was fully aware, from his own observation in early life; but he was happy to think that the severity of the evil had since been materially reduced. The hon. gentleman commented with much severity on the proceedings which followed the trial of colonel Quentin, and intimated his determination, at a future day, to propose an amendment in the Mutiny Act.
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that as the Mutiny Bill provided many of the temporary regulations of the army, and as, under its provisions, courts-martial were held, it could not be improper to introduce into it a clause such as the noble lord had proposed. He could not agree with the right hon. gentleman, that the House could properly investigate the case of this lieutenant or that major in order to address the Crown in any particular instance of abuse. The course now proposed would be preferable. He should therefore support the clause.
 Mr. Rose  would be judged by any man, if the measure recommended by the bullion committee would not have proved most ruinous had it been resorted to at the period which they had named. The new guineas which the Bank would, in that case, have been compelled to coin, would have been melted down as soon as they were issued. The Bank would have sustained an enormous loss, and the public would have derived from it no benefit. He objected to the amendment proposed to be moved by the hon. gentleman, as he understood the introduction of the words, "and no longer," were intended to tie down parliament from continuing the restrictions, even if it should appear necessary. Gold had been 5 l. s. l. s.
 Mr. Homer  was decidedly of opinion that the Bank ought to resume cash-payments as early as possible. He denied that any of the doctrines of the bullion committee had been refuted, and could not allow this opportunity to pass without entering his protest against the Bill altogether. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had said he expected the measure would not continue to be necesssary beyond July, 1816, he regarded as being
 [44
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  reserved his observations upon the hon. member's views until he should propose the amendment of which he had given notice. He thought it however necessary on this occasion to deny the assertion, that the country had been twelve months at peace. For, in point of fact, considering the state of our*relations with America, that a definitive treaty was not yet concluded, and that our foreign expenditure still continued, the country could not even now be said to be in a state of peace. Our foreign expenditure had no doubt diminished, and was still diminishing. Yet its extent must naturally be conceived to operate against the reduction of the exchange; and until the expiration of the winter months, which impeded our commerce, the balance of trade could not be expected to outweigh the influence of our foreign expenditure. The prospect, however, was favourable, the rate of exchange having been reduced no less than 25 per cent, within less than twelve months; but still he was not so sanguine in his hopes as to speak confidently, that the restriction upon the Bank could be conveniently removed at the time specified in the Bill.
 Mr. Wynn  wished that there should be some mark of disapprobation affixed to duels in the army, especially as some courts-martial now promoted duels. He
 [52
 Mr. Tierney  rose to support the clause proposed by the noble lord, and thought that on sound constitutional principles it merited his assistance. The argument drawn from the precedent of dismissal in sir Robert Walpole's administration, was far from being conclusive. It appealed to him to prove nothing more, than that sir Robert Walpole's House of Commons approved of their patron's conduct; and as to the right belonging to the Crown of resuming the commissions it had previously granted, it should be recollected that the system pursued in our army was essentially different from those of other countries. In our service commissions were purchased, and the purchasers were entitled to every protection in the enjoyment of their annuity. They had purchased a place of trust and profit, and had a right to be continued in it, unless found guilty of some crime deserving of forfeiture. The noble Secretary at War had stated, that the crimes of incapacity and ungentlemanlike conduct, could not be made the subject of trial. The latter of these was, however, frequently to be seen among the charges preferred before a court martial, and therefore thought capable of proof. And as to the former, it would be much more honourable to inquire into that before the unfortunate gentleman's pocket was emptied. But now his money was taken; and on a subsequent examination his incapacity was declared, and he was deprived of his commission with a stigma affixed to his character. With respect to the charge of disaffection against any individual, this surely was of a nature peculiarly capable of proof, and should be tried by some court; for, by the present practice, the character of an officer might be whispered away, and no reason given but the caprice or power, for depriving him both of that and his commission. The right hon. member next alluded to the case of the officers of the 10th hussars, who were dismissed to different regiments: these were not, he allowed, dismissed the service, but they were expressly sentenced to other corps for the purpose of learning subordination; but in such a case gentlemen were made their own executioners. For although not absolutely deprived, there were many who would not wish to enter another corps with this brand of insubordination. To field-officers it would be particularly severe; for how could they insist on submission, when their own want
 49]
 Mr. Brogden  brought up the Report of the committee on the Bank Restriction Bill. On the question that it be received,
 Mr. Addington  begged to remind the hon. gentleman and the House, that when this charge was first made, he had expressed his belief that no such case had occurred. The hon. gentleman, however, not being satisfied, he (Mr. Addington) had the day after stated, that nothing of the kind had happened during the time that the present Secretary for the Home department had held his office. The hon. gentleman then found that he had made a mistake, and that the person in question had been sent out of the country, when Mr. Ryder was secretary of state. The first impression, therefore, which he (Mr. Addingion) had entertained, was, that he was not obliged to extend his researches to an indefinite period, as the hon. gentleman could not mention the year when the transaction took place. To avoid any misconstruction, however, he had searched to the period between five and six years ago, and had read all the papers upon the subject; and as far as his opinion went, he was satisfied that Mr. Ryder, than whom no man was less likely to be guilty of an abuse of power, had only exercised a sound discretion in sending that individual out of the country.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  thought that the diminished hopes of the right hon. gentleman as to the resumption of cash-payments, since he last addressed the House upon the subject, furnished additional reason for inquiry. The House should not leave
 45]
 Lord Proby  rose for the purpose of introducing a clause into the Bill, for preventing the dismissal of military officers from the service without the previous inquiry of a court-martial. It would have been, perhaps, a better course for him, in the first instance, to have moved for a copy of the proceedings of the court-martial on colonel Quentin, as the circumstances attendant upon those documents would have been a striking illustration of the opprobrium of which he complained. He was always impressed with the opinion, that the dismissal of officers, whose only offence was the bringing forward charges against their superiors which were deemed unproved, was a measure not only impolitic, but illegal. Custom, he was aware, had sanctioned it, and the opinion of lawyers gave it a degree of  éclat; [46 primâ facie
 Lord Proby  contended, that the mere suspicion of disaffection, unless that suspicion were substantiated, was not a sufficient ground for dismissing an officer.
 Mr. Grenfell , without detaining the House at length, having been a member of the bullion committee, wished to make a few remarks upon the measure. In his opinion no circumstances, had, since the report of that committee, occurred, sufficient to induce him to change his sentiments, or to think that the principles and doctrines laid down in the report of the bullion committee were ill-founded. Certain facts of a curious nature had indeed appeared, but they did not bear upon the true point in issue; and looking at the present state of the country, with reference to the currency, the price of bullion, and the state of the foreign exchanges, he was persuaded that the arguments in the report were more and more confirmed. Those who four or five years ago argued against that report, imagined that they had now obtained a signal triumph, but they and the House would recollect that Bank-of-England paper was only one component part of the paper currency of Great Britain; that the country banks made very large issues of paper money, the amount of which it was not easy to ascertain, but which also had their influence on the price of bullion. It would be found, he believed, on inquiry, to be a fact, that as the paper circulation of the Bank of England had been diminished, that of the country banks had been augmented, and consequently that the whole amount of the paper currency was generally at alt times about the same. This assertion was in some degree confirmed by the fact, that during the last summer, when a number of country banks and their paper were withdrawn, the issues of the Bank of England were augmented in proportion. The truth was, however, that the bullion committee had never contended that paper was to be considered as the criterion by which a judgment was to be formed of the price of gold and silver. He requested the House to reflect upon the present state of the country. We had now been for about twelve months at peace; the balance of trade had been during the whole period in our favour, and from these and other circumstances we had a right to expect that the foreign exchanges should be in our favour. What, then, was the reason that bullion was 15 per cent, below the mint price,
 43]
 Mr. R. Ward  stated, that the power of dismissing officers without being tried by a court-martial, existed in the navy, and instanced the case of lord Cochrane.
 Mr. Whitbread  complained of the power which magistrates had of sending persons confessing themselves to be deserters to the  dépôot
 Mr. Whitbread  hoped the right hon. gentleman would excuse him, if he did not join in the panegyric which he had pronounced on Mr. Ryder; and as he could not take the opinion of the right hon. gentleman on this subject, he should move for the correspondence which had passed relative to sending Correa out of this country. He was desirous of knowing what was the practice as to signing passports; and on Tuesday, when an hon. member would make a motion on the Alien Act, he should bring this matter before the House.
 Mr. Whitbread  rose, to repeat his notice, that he should to-morrow se'nnight make a motion on the subject of our foreign relation. Seeing the under Secretary of State for the Home department in his place, he would take that opportunity of asking him, whether he had made any further inquiry into the case of a Portuguese of the name of Correa, who had been sent out of this country, as he understood, because the ambassador, M. Souza, had refused to sign his passport.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  said, that admitting for the sake of argument those abuses to exist, which had been stated, it did not follow that the proposition of the noble lord was the only or the best remedy for them. With regard to the hardships complained of by the right hon. gentleman, sustained by those who purchased their commissions, in the first place he would observe, that there were a great many commissions in the army which were not purchased; and that those who did purchase them, made the purchase with a full knowledge of the conditions annexed to it. He apprehended the noble lord who brought forward the proposition, was not aware of the whole importance of the question; and that, if it were thought advisable to do any thing respecting it, Parliament ought to pass a distinct act, and not introduce it its a mere clause of the Mutiny Bill. The clause, as it now stood, either would not effect the desired
 51]
 Colonel Wood  declared that if those officers of the Hussars had not been removed, a serious injustice would have been inflicted on the rest of the army. In addition to the case brought forward by his noble friend, of the officers dismissed by sir Robert Walpole, he would adduce one of a stronger nature, to prove the good effect of such a discretionary power. The case was that of the 85th regiment, five or six of whose officers had brought several charges against their commander, colonel Ross. One of those charges they had substantiated; but the court having reported that those officers were not actuated by a sense of public duty, they were in consequence of that report dismissed the service. Colonel Ross himself was some time after deprived of his commission for similar proceedings against the major of the regiment; but the other officers, who, though not actually engaged in the several prosecutions, had aided and abetted, were suffered to remain in the corps. Thus they continued for four or five years; but the same spirit of insubordination still appearing, the Commander in chief thought proper to remove them all, the regiment was re-officered from other corps, and distinguished itself by its gallant conduct both in Spain and in America. Col. Thornton was wounded at Bladensburgh, as were almost all the field-officers of the regiment. This cir-
 [50
 Lord Palmerston  said, that this power was allowed, to prevent the collusion, which sometimes took place, when one informed against another for being a deserter, and received the reward, while the person informed against had never been in the array, and only shared the reward with the informer.
 Lord Palmerston  opposed the clause, on the ground that the noble lord had not made out any case, or pointed out any abuses of that discretionary power vested in the Crown, to justify his proposition. When
 47]
 Mr. Baring  hoped the inhabitants of all the petitioning towns would receive such support as had been given by the hon. member for Carlisle to their constituents. The hon. baronet, who was so well acquainted with the country, had told them, that if a committee of impartial and fair men were appointed, much less would be found requisite than 80 s. s. s. s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not give any information with regard to the particular advertisement; but he did certainly know, that it had been in the contemplation of the Secretary of State for the Colonial department to take measures to prevent emigration to the United States, and for that purpose to promote it to our own settlements in North America.
 Mr. Baring  rose for the purpose of presenting a petition, signed by between 5 and 6,000 inhabitants of the city of Carlisle and its immediate neighbourhood; a number which comprized, with very little exception, the whole of the grown population of the district he had mentioned. The prayer of the petition was similar to that which had been so frequently stated during the evening, namely, that no alteration should be made in the Corn Laws. The petitioners had, however, made remarks on a variety of other subjects; and they seemed to think, that the Board of Agriculture was a very great nuisance. They expressed their conviction, that the members of that board, by tampering with the Corn Laws, from time to time, had rather occasioned evil than good. The petition, though it did not absolutely pray for parliamentary reform, yet touched indirectly on that subject. The sentiments of the inhabitants of Carlisle were thus expressed: "Your petitioners," say they, "are satisfied, that any hope of success in restricting the importation of corn, must arise from the people not being fairly represented—from the want of parliamentary reform." And they recommended to them, by "granting no more public money than was absolutely necessary, and by doing away the corn laws, to shew that they were really ready to support the interests of the people." He agreed with them in the view they had taken of the subject; for no argument—no fact that ever before had been submitted to that
 [54
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  rose, and after stating that he was afraid to trust his feelings on this occasion, he proceeded to observe, that, when he witnessed such a multitude of petitions laid on the table of that House, and saw how little they were attended to by those who, no doubt, were desirous of being considered the representatives of the people, he could not help believing that the people had just reason to complain that they were not freely and fairly represented. Those who were enemies to parliamentary reform ought to mark the powerful engine, which, by their neglect, they placed in the hands of those who contended that the representation was not what it ought to be. No person could suspect that he was hostile to the agricultural interest; but he could not forget the great services which the commercial interest had performed for the country; services by which the empire was enabled to make the effectual struggle which had been so gloriously terminated. The hon. baronet then proceeded to animadvert on a speech delivered on a former evening by Mr. Yorke, at the delivery of which, he acknowledged he was not present. The right hon. gentleman, he observed, appeared all of a sudden to
 59]
 Mr. Yorke  denied that he had ever spoken of the commercial interest in the manner attributed to him.
 Lord Nugent  rose to second the amendment. He said that on the same grounds on which the other night he had voted against going into a committee, he should now give his hearty and decided vote against receiving the report. Under an impression of the difficulties with which the question was surrounded, and the importance of the interests involved, he had, not without some hesitation, arrived at a decided opinion by which to direct his conduct. But the question, as it now stood, involved other considerations besides those of the ultimate expediency of the legislative, measure. He thought the question had been hurried through the House, up to its present stage, in a manner indecorous to Parliament, and injurious to the people of England. On a question of such intricacy, and such importance to our commercial as well as landed interest, time ought to have been given to members to instruct and satisfy their own minds, so that, even should they be disposed to concur in the necessity of the Bill, they might have means and opportunity to reconcile, if possible, the wishes and feelings of their constituents. No such opportunity had been given, and the Bill had been hurried through with a haste ill becoming the importance of the subject, or the gravity of Parliament. The people of England were at the doors; he meant not in riotous and tumultuous meeting, but in respectful, constitutional, and rightful remonstrance, by way of petition. This was not a moment for hurrying such a Bill, or for running as it were a race for time against the petitions of the people. He trusted he was as little disposed as any man who heard him to concede any thing to the outcry of a mob, which was as contemptible as it was violent. He felt
 [60 minimum 61]
 Mr. Douglas  completely acquiesced in the principle of the Bill, though he thought the price of 80 s.
 Mr. Baring  thought it would be an outrage upon the opinion of the public to press the measure with the precipitancy alluded to, but which he could not believe to be seriously intended by the gentlemen on the other side, until the design was actually avowed by some authority. A measure of such importance had certainly never been so hurried through the House. On all former propositions with respect to corn, the public were allowed ample time to consider and understand the subject before it was passed into a law. He hoped that a similar opportunity would be afforded upon this occasion. If, however, his hopes were unfounded, and it was the intention of the promoters of this measure to push it forward with such rapidity, he should think it his duty to oppose it in every stage.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that from all the information which he had received, and especially from Scotland, 76 s. s.,
 Mr. Baring  rose and deprecated the haste with which it was apparently intended to proceed with this Bill. When
 [70 s. s. s. s. 71] [72 s. s. 73] s.
 Mr. Robinson  rose to observe, that he had already suffered so much from the consequences of misconception and misrepresentation, that he was the less inclined to allow any opportunity to pass when he was so assailed, without meeting it as he conceived he was entitled to do. With this feeling, therefore, he desired to know, what the hon. gentleman meant when he asserted that he had, for the sake of catching at popularity, consented to sacrifice, in the choice of the present measure, what he knew was for the best interests of the country? He did not believe an import duty would be preferable to a prohibitory price; on the contrary, he had expressed himself quite of a different opinion; and
 [74
 Mr. Baring  said, that he did not mean to apply the observations personally. What he had stated in the way of argument was, that an opinion generally prevailed, that it would have been preferable to have imposed a duty. He did not mean to imply that the right hon. gentleman, with such a conviction on his mind, had nevertheless proposed the prohibition, from any desire to obtain popularity; but he certainly did state that ministers had abandoned their duty in advocating a prohibition, because they thought a duty would have been unpopular.
 Mr. Robinson  replied, that his reason for calling upon the hon. gentleman for an explanation, was because he had affirmed that they, his Majesty's Government, had abandoned what they knew to be the better course, and had adopted another, from motives, the mere suspicion of which was degrading to them. If, however, the hon. gentleman denied such an application of his words, there was of course an end of the matter; but for his own sake, he could not permit it to pass without notice.
 Mr. Baring  repeated, that he had no such intention, and especially that he had no thought of personally alluding to the right hon. gentleman. He had made the observation, because not only himself, but several sensible persons with whom he had conversed, were of opinion that a duty would have been the better mode of proceeding.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when he heard the conduct of that House charged with indecent precipitation in prosecuting the present measure, he felt it his duty to repel that charge in the most distinct and positive manner. Every member must know, on the contrary, that few questions had undergone so much deliberation; and as no change had been suggested of the plan originally brought forward by his right hon. friend, he did not see the necessity for delay; and he trusted the House would not suffer itself to be taunted, by the imputation of precipitancy or cowardice, into a dereliction of its duty in bringing the measure to a conclusion. Whatever suspicion might be thrown upon himself, he would
 75] [76
 Mr. Majoribanks  stated, that in the part of Scotland with which he was acquainted, the rents had increased from 10 s. s. s. s. l. l.
 Mr. Baring  said, that he must take the sense of the House upon this question although after so long a discussion he did not think it necessary to adduce any further arguments. He considered that the Bill was hurried through the House with indecent precipitation, and must enter hi protest against it. He moved as an amendment, that the Bill be read a third time on Friday se'nnight.
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  seconded this amendment. The right hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House were much mistaken, if they supposed that the passing in a hurry a Bill so repugnant to the feelings of the people could have the effect of allaying those feelings.
 Mr. Western , cheered by the whole House, was strongly insisting on the propriety of calling out the military, when the civil power was not sufficiently strong to repress the multitude out of doors, who wished to influence the proceedings of the House by their violence.
 Lord Castlereagh  thought what the hon. gentleman had just uttered must be in unison with the feelings of every man in that House, and with those of every man out of it who knew how to value the British constitution, and the blessings which he enjoyed in this free and happy country. If the legislators of Great Britain might not debate on those measures which to them appeared to demand their consideration, without being threatened in their persons and injured in their property, the liberties of Englishmen were gone. And if the persons concerned in the tumults out of doors thought their representatives in parliament so lost to themselves, and so forgetful of their duty to the community, as to suffer these disgraceful riots to have any influence on their conduct; if they thought their outrages would incline them to the smallest relaxation of their duty—they little knew what those who sat in that House felt they owed to their own character, and to the interests of those who sent them there. He hoped by their conduct that night, they would teach the ignorant and infatuated persons (for such he trusted they were) with whom these diorders originated, that they knew their duly, and were not to be deterred from performing it by clamour nor by outrage. He, however, was anxious that that which had occurred should not be exaggerated. Some houses had certainly been attacked; and this, in a city so large as London, might be easily effected by a few wicked men, proceeding from one place to another; but it was right to state, that the metropolis generally had not been thrown into a state of clamour or disaffection. The police had not been negligent; but no police could prevent such attacks from being made in different parts of the town under circumstances like the present. It would be false mercy not to take the most effectual means to check such outrages; the hon. gentleman might be assured, the Executive felt this to be their
 79]
 Sir C. Burrell  spoke to order: he thought such a disclosure of the steps taken by Government likely to defeat the very object in view.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that the statement might be contrary to discretion, but could not be contrary to order. Of the propriety of making the statement the right hon. gentleman was to judge.
 Mr. Yorke  observed, that there was, in truth, no question before the House, and recommended the reading of the other orders of the day.
 Mr. Ponsonby  rose, but, from the great confusion prevailing, in the House, could
 81]
 Lord Castlereagh  was not aware that members had sustained any personal injury or inconvenience in attending their duty in parliament since the former night. Riots of this kind were happily not of frequent occurrence in this metropolis, and consequently the means of preventing or quelling them might not so readily be resorted to. He hoped that hon. gentlemen would feel the same spirit of forbearance before they attached blame to the magistrates, who had not been guilty of any pusillanimity, although they might have acted with too little severity on particular occasions.
 Mr. Yorke  thought it quite nugatory to
 [82
 Mr. Baring  rose with considerable warmth, conceiving that he bad been personally alluded to by the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He hoped that the House would allow him to say a few words to vindicate himself from what he considered a most unprovoked attack.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  interposed, and said that if Mr. Baring had any claim to be heard, Mr. Huskisson had a right to conclude what he was about to say when interrupted by the Chair.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  repeated his remark, but from the confusion prevailing in the House, it was scarcely audible.
 Mr. Baring  said, that what remarks he had made upon the Bill he had offered in the conscious discharge of his duty, from which nothing should induce him to shrink. It was most unjust and unfair that any individual in that House should point out another, from the line of conduct that others pursued, as the author of the ill-treatment of the members, and of the disturbances in the metropolis. Whatever were his opinions upon this Bill, he had declared them, and would still avow them, and what effect those opinions might have out of doors was not for him to consider or care. Free discussion was most necessary upon a measure like the present; and if gentlemen on the other side were not to be terrified into voting against the Bill, he was not to be awed into an acquiescence in what he thought a ruinous measure, lest popular feeling should be excited and expressed. He had given it as his opinion that there was no danger which ought to induce the House to precipitate the Bill, and what he had stated was only to induce the House to proceed with due deliberation. He admitted, that if the complaints of the people were ill-founded, nothing ought to induce the House to go a line out of its way. He again protested against any member rising and pointing out another as the author and abettor of the disgraceful riots that had lately disturbed the metropolis.
 [84
 Mr. Manners Sutton  opposed the clause, on the ground that it was rendered unnecessary in consequence of steps taken by the Commander-in-chief. He also entered into an explanation to shew how much the practice of military flogging had declined.
 The Speaker , when order was restored, remarked, that he had interrupted the right hon. gentleman, conceiving that he was transgressing the bounds usually assigned. If he were allowed to conclude, after due reflection, upon what he had before said, it would be but just that Mr. Baring should be permitted to reply.
 The Speaker  here interposed, and reminded the right hon. gentleman that there were several orders of the day to be disposed of.
 The Speaker  admitted that there was no regular question; but suggested, that on important occasions like the present the ordinary regularity of proceeding was dispensed with.
 Mr. Wortley Stuart  said, he knew that it had been at 10 s. [56
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  stated, that wheat had been rising in Reading market for these four weeks past, and was now selling at 88 s. [58
 Mr. Horner  gave notice that on an early day he would bring the subject under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Horner  begged to put a question to the right hon. gentleman over the way, which might be in some degree connected with the Corn Bill. Much had been said, in the course of the debates, of the danger of emigration by our artisans and mechanics; and an advertisement had been put into his hand, which, if correct, would imply that ministers had been aiding in promoting the departure of our manufacturers and others from this country. This advertisement was from a person who styled himself, in a Scotch newspaper, "government commissioner and general agent in Scotland;" and it stated that it was the intention of ministers to encourage settlers in the British provinces of North America, and that for
 53]
 Mr. Philips  presented a petition from certain journeymen tailors, assembled at their house of call, the Peacock, in Clare-market, against any alteration in the Corn Laws;—which was ordered to lie on the table.
 Mr. Philips  said, that according to the argument of the hon. gentleman, agriculture had stimulated commerce; but the fact was, that commerce had stimulated agriculture. One object, it had been urged, was to prevent fluctuation of price; but no argument had been employed to shew how it was to be prevented; and yet, before that was shewn, the House was to be told that the restricting price was to occasion cheapness, and prevent fluctuation. If high rents could be fairly and justly obtained, he would not object to them; but those who opposed this measure, complained of landholders taking unnatural and artificial means to increase rents. During the last twenty years, the value of the fee simple had been doubled, and rents had been raised in proportion. Gentlemen had boasted of the superior condition of the agriculturists; but he maintained, that it was the manufacturers who had chiefly contributed to the support of the country. The House should, therefore, pause, before they adopted a measure which could not fail to be injurious to that description of persons. It was by means of the demand for agricultural produce that high rents had been obtained, and that demand had been from the manufacturers. From whence, he would ask, had our army and navy been supplied? It had been said, from the agriculturists only; but the noble lord at the head of the war department could not fail to acknowledge, that they were furnished also from the commercial and manufacturing classes. It would be a great misfortune to the country, if the people were to be told that the commercial and manufacturing interests were to be little attended to, and all the consideration was to be given to the agriculturists. Proper respect should be paid to the voice of the people, and he trusted that those who had been advocates for this measure would not proceed in a course which must tend to increase the popular ferment.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that if he were satisfied it was meant upon bringing up the report to take it into farther consideration, with any view to conciliation, he should not think the amendment necessary. But seeing that so many gentlemen on the other side declared their determination not to give way, that indeed they would
 69]
 Mr. Tierney  conceived that Mr. Huskisson had finished the accusation he made upon his hon. friend, who had a right to be heard in his own vindication.
 Mr. Fawcett  said, that he had received letters from several landholders, stating that they had no desire to have the importation price fixed so high.
 Sir J. Graham , in answer to a question by Mr. Cawthorne, stated, that wheat was selling at 10 s.
 Sir James Graham  said, he had never heard of this petition, as his constituents at Carlisle had never favoured him with their opinions or intentions upon the subject. The whole population of that place was not much more than 9,000. With respect to the corn laws, he owned that he in part agreed with them. He had made it his business to inquire particularly into the subject during the course of the last 12 months; he had spoken to many persons connected with agriculture in most parts of the country; and this he would state to the House, that from the greatest proprietors of land downwards, he found they would be satisfied with an average price of 72 s. s. s. s. s. s. 55] l. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s.
 Mr. J. Graham  paid, he had not advised the withdrawing of land from cultivation; he had merely said, that if land was cultivated at 18 l.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that he considered 76 s. s. 77]
 Mr. Addington  said, he was only about to state the outline of the proceedings of the Executive Government, in pursuance, as he understood, of the wish of the House. If it were their pleasure, he was quite willing to proceed with his statement; [Cries of 'No, no,' from all sides,] at least it might be some satisfaction if he assured the House upon his own responsibility, as far as it was of value, and he pledged himself to prove the fact incontestably, that every possible measure of precaution and prevention had been resorted to; that no means had been omitted, and no expedient left untried.
 Mr. Addington  expressed himself obliged to the hon. member for giving him this opportunity of stating what steps the Secretary of State for the Home department had taken to secure the tranquillity of the metropolis. He was sure, that merely to state the outlines of the various measures of precaution and protection would be sufficient. The first step was taken as early as Monday last; indeed, on the evening before, they had been commenced, but on Monday last lord Sidmouth had sent a letter to the lord mayor, pointing out the necessity of paying a strict attention to the preservation of the peace of the city. Afterwards ten magistrates were appointed to different districts, that had been previously arranged.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  thought the danger so pressing, that he recommended the immediate introduction of a bill, which might then go through the first stage, for establishing additional magistrates in all the parishes of the metropolis, with a proportionate number of constables.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  called the attention of House to the petitions which had been presented on the one side and the other, and expressed his wish, that the numbers on each side should be ascertained and stated. The petitions against the measure were not signed by the rabble who had committed those outrages which all must abhor, but by a vast number of intelligent people, perfectly competent to discriminate, and to form a correct judgment on the question.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that though the lower orders were not perhaps judges of all the minute details of a question of this kind, they knew, from experience, that whenever the subject of wheat, bread, or provisions was mentioned in that House, it had always the effect of raising the price of them to the consumer. With regard to the inferior lands which had been alluded to by the hon. baronet, whatever was done by the House, it would be impossible to keep them in cultivation, unless a similar stimulus should be applied from time to time; and even this stimulus would be insufficient to keep them in cultivation to the amount wished. Nothing could be more impolitic than such a system. Had they not seen other things raised to an immoderate height, by the number of acres which had been converted from pasture to arable? He said he had been highly pleased to hear the
 57]
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that so many circumstances had occurred since the committee on the subject of the Corn laws had terminated their labours, that that circumstance alone would have induced him to press the necessity of further investigation. It was said that the measure was not precipitated, because some change in the Corn laws had for three years been agitated. But had it been discussed in three years of peace? Had the price of labour been reduced for three years? Had the property tax been removed during that period? The country was now in a totally new state from that in which it was when the question was first brought forward. A great deal had been said on the subject of Ireland; and he thought it proper, that consistently with moderate cheap prices to the people of this country, Ireland should have the monopoly of the home market. But he had heard nothing to prove that so high a price as 80 s. s. 65]
 Mr. Calcraft  reminded gentlemen that all who were not prepared to say that as high a price as 80 s. s. s. s. s.
 Mr. Finlay , in explanation, said, he had not misunderstood the question, for he meant the measure should be amended by another bill.
 Mr. Finlay  said, he approved of the principle of the Bill, but wished the price to be fixed at the lower rate. He thought that 80 s.
 Mr. Methuen  said, he should oppose the Bill at all events, whether the cousequence was to lower the price of rents or not. Though the House should not be influenced by clamour, yet when the voice of the people was so unanimously expressed in a constitutional manner by petitions, it should be attended to.
 Mr. Methuen  wished the House to bear in mind that it had been admitted by an hon. member, that the present Bill had already raised the price.
 Mr. Charles Long  said, in considering this question, his object was to do that which was most beneficial to all, and particularly to the labouring and poor classes of society. The more he had reflected upon the subject, the more he was convinced, that the manufacturer, the shopkeeper, the farmer, and the labourer, had not, with reference to this question, as some gentlemen supposed, distinct and contending interests, but that the interests of all were inseparably connected and united. The hon. gentleman who spoke last had said, that the wages of labour had fallen very much, in many parts of the country, and he asked whether this was not a great blessing? Whether it was a blessing or an evil depended upon the cause; if the wages of labour had fallen because the farmer could not afford to employ the labourer, and on this account many of the industrious classes of society were thrown out of work, which he believed to be the fact, the fall of the wages of labour, in that case, he considered to be a great evil; it was a mockery to tell the labourer that he was to have bread cheap, if you did not give him wages to buy it. Many of the poor he had heard had signed the petitions against the Bill, upon being asked whether they wished to have bread cheap or dear. Who did not wish for cheapness, as far as it was practicable to attain it? But if they had been told that a very low price of bread would necessarily
 [66 67] s. s. s. s. [68
 Mr. Preston  renewed his former sentiments in favour of the measure, and denied that the tenantry were inclined to give up their leases from any pressure of high rents. In his opinion the Bill was essential, and that to fix upon a lower price than 80 s.
 Mr. Whitbread  fully concurred in many of the sentiments that had fallen from the noble lord, and was equally persuaded that all attempts to compel members to vote in opposition to their consciences would be fruitless. On the contrary, it was known that in some cases the effect was directly the reverse, for several members had voted in favour of the Bill, because such means had been resorted to in order to influence their conduct. What the noble lord had said respecting lenity, particularly as applied to the police, however, was very distinct from negligence. From what passed on the former night upon this point, the majority of members must be convinced that effectual steps had not been taken; and Mr. Whitbread scrupled not to say, that those to whom the public peace had been entrusted, had not done their duty. On a former night, he had suggested a distinct inquiry into the conduct of the High Bailiff of Westminster, and of the magistrates whose presence had been required; but the suggestion was over-ruled. How necessary it was, subsequent proceedings of the riotous mob had shewn. He did not mean to assert that the police of the metropolis generally had neglected its duty; but it was to the Secretary of State for the Home department that the House and the country must look for security; and he hoped the right hon. gentleman opposite would be able to give satisfactory information, first, as to what measures of precaution, and next, as to what measures of prevention had been resorted to, and what safety the metropolis was to hope for in future, should these outrages be continued. Although it was true, as the noble lord had said, that the danger was not exceedingly great, yet the fact was known, that so negligent had the police been in the discharge of its duty, that the populace who had on the previous night attacked the house of a right hon. gentleman, had been able in the broad noon-day to renew and prosecute that attack. The noble lord had assured the House that the Executive Government would stand by the Legisla-
 [80
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that though he did not mean to assert that the magistrates might have prevented the tumult or the interference of the military when it was excited, yet he thought that a reprimand to them would have been well timed, and might have prevented many calamities. On a future day he hoped that due inquiries would be made into the steps adopted by the Executive Government. The House could not be ignorant that an unconstitutional police had been raised by act of parliament at a great annual expense, for the express purpose of rendering unnecessary the interposition of military to preserve the peace of the metropolis. He hoped, on investigation, that it would turn out that the police had been properly distributed, and that its timely aid had been required: no man was more anxious that lenity should be shewn than himself; but it should remembered that if recurrence were had to severe measures, they were made requisite by the negligence of the police.
 Mr. Huskisson  remarked, that a bill was not necessary for such a purpose, if additional aid were required. After what had passed that night, and after the devastations the infuriated and blind rabble had committed, he hoped that no member would again venture to assert that the proceedings of the House had given sufficient provocation to the people of England to commit these outrages. The greatest danger had resulted entirely from the mode in which these debates had been conducted. This night he had heard with indignation that he could scarcely repress, the basest motives and lowest designs attributed to the supporters of this measure.
 Mr. Huskisson  added, that he had stated his confirmed opinion, and could not be induced to retract it. The hon. member had said, as he understood, that the disturbances had been occasioned by the provocations afforded by the House. This was a sentiment on which it became any and every member to animadvert. What he was about to say further at the time the Chair interposed, was, that he implored the House not to attribute the basest and most unworthy motives to members who defended the Bill, but in future discussions to avoid accusations, and discuss the measure upon its real merits.
 Mr. Huskisson  expressed his astonishment that the hon. gentleman who had just spoken should have declared himself in favour of the principle of the Bill, and yet declare his intention to agree to a proposition which would at once prevent the possibility of that principle being recognized in any shape. He considered the best course would be to permit the report to be received, and then to propose any alteration in price which the House might think it expedient to adopt, in preference to the sum suggested by his right hon. friend who brought in the Bill.
 Mr. W. Smith  stated, that his reason for voting for the postponement was, because he did not wish to see the House pledged against the common sentiment of the people. If it was discovered that the acting upon a confessedly uncertain opinion produced tumult, it would be wiser not to push the matter to extremity at once, but to wait and see the effect of further deliberation and delay.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  said, that not having yet spoken upon this subject, he was anxious to take an opportunity of expressing his high approbation of the measure before the House, in all its parts. He wished it to be distinctly understood, that it was his decided opinion that a wiser measure could not have been brought forward; and he hoped that his right hon. friend would not be induced to shrink from his duty, or to alter the measure in any respect, either as applied to the prin-
 63] s.
 Sir James Shaw  said, that the observations which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, respecting furred gowns and golden chains, called for some reply from him, and he hoped the House would indulge him for a very few moments. He could not help complaining of the right hon. gentleman for his personal allusions; but in the statement which he (sir James) had made, and had made after consulting with persons better acquainted with the subject than himself, he conceived that he was only discharging his duty. Since that time he had conversed with other individuals, by whom his statements had been completely confirmed.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that last year he had not voted for this Bill, because he had no information upon the subject. He had since, however, considered the measure, and was sure that protection was necessary to the farmer. To what extent that protection ought to go, however, was another question. In his opinion, the prices at which lands were at present let, must be reduced; and he was satisfied the true English landlord, when he saw the necessity of such a step, would not hesitate to adopt it. It was necessary and good for all orders of the community, that rent should be at a fair and moderate rate; but at present the prices were unques-
 [64 s.
 Sir J. Newport  vindicated the conduct of the Irish members upon the present question, and contended that the English manufacturer had no right to complain that Ireland was driving them to extremities, while they commanded the monopoly of the Irish market; and all that Ireland required in return was, to have her agricultural interest preferred before those of Poland and France. He deprecated the idea that the measure before them should be considered as a divided one between the two countries, when, in fact, it comprehended the interests of the whole empire.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to the introduction of the first part of the amendment, which expressed the desire of a resumption of cash-payments, as he himself felt a sincere wish for that event; but he would certainly object to the latter part, which required the adoption of immediate measures for that purpose.
 Mr. Rose  objected to the amendment, as it would tend to mislead the country: it implied, that the Bank, if urged, might
 [86
 Mr. Manning  said, he had always stated his individual anxiety to resume cash-payments, and he knew that the gentlemen with whom he acted, wished to return to that state of things as soon as it could possibly be done without producing results highly inconvenient to the country. He wished to recall to the recollection of the hon. mover of the amendment, the concluding words of the Report of the Bullion Committee, that in the event of peace, two years would be the shortest period before the restriction could be taken off. It was well known that we were not yet in any thing like a state of peace: we had yet a large foreign expenditure; while this foreign expenditure was going on, and till the state of exchanges was fixed, it would be highly dangerous to return to cash-payments. One of the first effects of such directions to the Bank would be to induce them to restrict their issues; and the effect of this would be felt throughout the whole country.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  wished to know from the Chancel or of the Exchequer, upon what he rested his hope that we should ever be able to return to cash-payments? It seemed to him that he had no other ground for this, than the vague wish that the evil might cure itself. The governor of the Bank (Mr. Mellish) had been present at several discussions, but he seemed to take no interest in, nor to pay any attention to what was going on. The Bank must first reduce their paper before they could resume their cash-payments; and this was contrary to their immediate interest, for in proportion as they issued paper, in such proportion were their profits.
 Mr. Horner  consented to take only the first part of his amendment. His purpose in proposing the amendment was to record the difference in principle on this ques-
 87]
 Mr. Rose  said, that his expectations of payments in specie being resumed, arose from this: the price of gold in January 1814, was 5 l. s. l. s.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  was satisfied that no person was anxious to force the Bank directors improperly to resume their cash-payments. He thought that the late fall in gold in this country might be attributed to the immense quantity of depreciated Russian and Austrian paper which inundated the continent. The gold was thereby forced into England, as it had formerly been driven from it by a similar cause. This was at least a plausible explanation of the variation that had occurred in the price of bullion. All that he desired was, that the Bank should commence measures with a view to what every person: considered necessary; and he hoped and trusted, that if the right hon. gentleman and his friends should find it impossible next year for the Bank to return to payments in cash, they would themselves move the House to inquire into the subject,
 Mr. Grenfell  was persuaded, that if the House did not urge the Bank, payments in specie would never be resumed. Notwithstanding the high characters of the directors of the Bank of England, he begged leave to ask, whether it were not possible that they might err as to sound po-
 [88 l. l.
 Mr. Thompson  had such confidence in the discretion of the directors of the Bank of England, that he was perfectly satisfied to rely upon their taking the proper measures to resume payments in specie, when circumstances would warrant such a step. He was quite at a loss to know upon what ground gentlemen were anxious to force a cash circulation at this moment. It did not appear to him, that the means by which gold was obtained was known to the generality of members, or he was sure they would not press the adoption of such a measure at this juncture. If it was once known that the Bank of England was purchasing bullion, the consequence would be an immediate rise in that article, and the exchanges, instead of being favourable, would be in a material degree unfavourable to this country; commerce would be thereby impeded, and the interests of the manufacturers would be sacrificed. The restraint on the issues of specie, he was satisfied, had been of great advantage to the commerce of this country, and particularly to those transactions which had taken place in London; and, for his own part, so little did he value a coin currency, that if he possessed a thousand guineas tomorrow, he would carry them to the Bank,
 89]
 Mr. Baring  said, he was by no means prepared to agree with the hon. gentleman who spoke last, as lo the superiority of paper over gold and silver. He wished to see the currency once more restored to a sound state, and to see a mixed issue of paper and coin, which would be alike valuable at home and abroad. Although he admitted that the commerce of the country had been considerably benefited by paper issues; now that we were at peace, he hoped, although he did not expect, that ere long we should see the depreciated notes of the Bank of England superseded by the standard coin of the country; and he further wished, that in future no minister should be tempted to depart from this principle under any circumstance. While he was up, he begged to make a few observations upon the state of the silver coinage. Whenever we should return to a sound circulation of gold and silver, he thought it was of the utmost importance that Government should pay some attention to the introduction of such a silver coinage as would supply the place of the French coin, by which this country was at present inundated, and for which we were paying a premium of at least 60 or 80 per cent. It was impossible that we could look to the Bank of England to supply our deficiencies in this respect. He thought a coinage might take place at 10 or 15 per cent, under the standard value of silver, whereby a security would be afforded for keeping such coin in the country, and it would not be liable, at every little fluctuation in price, to be melted down for purposes of trade. This plan would not at all affect contracts, because silver was a legal tender only to a small extent, and gold might be, as it always had been, the real standard of the country, by which contracts with, individuals might be regulated. Such silver coinage might even be 20 per cent, below the standard value, and this would amply compensate for the expense of coinage, and the loss upon the base coinage in circulation. He suggested also that gold pieces of the value of 20 s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said he rose merely to correct a misrepresentation which bad gone abroad as to what he had said on this subject upon a former night. He had expressed his hopes that the Bank
 [90
 Mr. Horner's  amendment was then agreed to.
 Mr. Grenfell  rose to introduce an amendment, the effect of which would be to limit the period of the restriction in the same manner as the property tax was limited by the Act of 1806, viz. to insert after the words '5th of July, 1816,' the words 'and no longer.' This, he observed, would not tie down Parliament if it should be found advisable to continue, the restriction, while it would fix the period of it, if nothing meanwhile occurred to prevent it.
 Mr. Rose  thought it quite sufficient that Parliament had described the limits of the restriction, and was of opinion that the amendment was utterly useless, and would only tend to mislead.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  supported the amendment, because, though it could not bind Parliament, it would express strongly its present sense as to the time at which the Bank should resume its payments in cash. Since the year 1797 the restriction had been continued as a matter of course, and now it appeared to Parliament that the restriction should not be again renewed, it was proper that their opinion of the inexpediency of further renewal, should be stated.
 Mr. Pole Carew  thought the amendment perfectly unnecessary.
 THE Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that on rising to move for the postponement of the committee of ways and means till Monday, he was not actuated by any desire to put off that part of the debate which related to the new taxes; but as several gentlemen wished to propose alterations, and as they must at present be very much
 91]
 Mr. Abercrombie  could not suffer so important a measure to pass, without expressing his complete satisfaction, and his conviction of its beneficial consequences. If it had not excited much attention in that House, it was only because no individual doubted the propriety of the principle of a trial by jury; and he felt as-
 85]
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, for his own part he was at that time unfit to attend to the discussion of any subject whatever; and he believed many members were equally fatigued with the late discussions: he wished, therefore, that the consideration of the resolutions should be postponed to Monday.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as he believed it was the general wish of the House, he should move that the Report be taken into further consideration on Monday.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was happy to state that to the House, which he had before stated to several gentlemen
 [92 s. d. s. d. s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that a much longer period than was usual had been suffered to intervene between the introduction of the resolutions, and the final decision of the House concerning them. He had already collected much information on the subject of the different taxes, and before Monday there would be time for any gentleman to make further communications to him on the subject.
 Mr. Protheroe  said, that it was understood to be the intention of the right hon. gentleman to propose some modifications in the taxes upon the windows of manufactories; he wished to be informed what was their nature, as this information might induce many of his constituents to suspend the petitions which they were about to bring forward on the subject.
 Mr. Horner  rose to express his great satisfaction at the introduction of the Bill. There was, however, a very important feature in it, which deserved mature consideration; he meant the discretion given to the court to order the trial. That was a privilege which ought to be viewed with the utmost jealousy; but as the Bill was merely experimental, and was not intended to be a permanent measure, he should not oppose it on that account. Other points might be discussed in the committee.
 Mr. Philips  said, that some of the taxes which had been proposed had excited great alarm among the manufacturing part of the community, and that deputations had been dispatched to wait on the right hon. gentleman. He thought therefore that Monday would be too early a period for the discussion.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that as far as he himself was concerned he did not wish the subject to be postponed. He was perfectly prepared to renew his observations on the subject, and to press it on the House that it was contrary to the form and essence of the mode of their voting money, that they should consent to grant so large a sum in taxes without farther information. If the right hon. gentleman would bring in the two first resolutions at that time, he could state the general objections which he had to urge, and which would have nothing to do with the nature of the particular taxes which were proposed.
 Mr. Butterworth  thought some modification of the tax on men-servants should be adopted, with respect to such as were under twenty years of age, who were taken by many persons as much from motives of charity, as for other purposes.
 Mr. Finlay  entirely acquiesced in the principle of the Bill.
 Mr. Dundas  was happy to find, that he should have the assistance of the hon. and learned gentleman.
 Mr. William Dundas  observed, that a measure more important in its object and beneficial in its consequences, as relating to the administration of justice in Scotland, had never been introduced to the attention of that House. He was confident that nothing more was necessary to insure its support, than to state the purport of the present Bill. The blessings resulting to England by that invaluable mode of trial by jury, were well and accurately understood; every writer on the English constitution bad made it the constant theme of panegyric. All that Scotland now asked was to share that advantage, and he was therefore well assured, that to the general principle no opposition would be made in that House.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought an undue pressure was thrown by the new taxes on the manufacturing interest. He thought malt-houses and granaries should be exempted from the window duties on manufactories, as the windows were for air and not light.
 Mr. Baring  was willing that every consideration should be given to the petition from the city of Waterford; but it was to be recollected that this city was mainly and principally concerned in the exportation of Irish corn, and that it was proposed by this Bill to give the Irish corn-grower the monopoly of the British market. He conceived, therefore, that the town formed no exception to the opinions entertained in commercial towns on this subject.
 Mr. Baring  disclaimed any wish to prevent the petition from Waterford receiving every due attention.
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  said, that the number of persons out of employment might be partly owing to the season of the year, and partly to the hands discharged from the army and navy.
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose and spoke to the following effect:—I have here, Sir, a Petition signed by 42,473 inhabitants of Westminster against the Corn Bill now before the House. In presenting this petition, I cannot refrain from stating
 [98 s. 99] s. [100 101] [102
 Mr. Robinson  rose under great agitation, and spoke nearly as follows:—The House, I hope, will easily believe me, when I say that I never rose to address them with the same feelings before. I should be destitute of every feeling of a gentleman and an honest man, if I were not deeply affected with the unfortunate accident which the hon. baronet has just alluded to. I can assure the hon. baronet that in some of the points alluded to by him, he is extremely mistaken. If the hon. baronet thinks that soldiers were placed in ambush in my house, for the purpose which he has stated, he is very much mistaken indeed. These soldiers were not placed in ambush; they were in the inside of my house, because they would otherwise have had no protection from without—the windows were all destroyed—the door had been driven in—the house had been entered three different times by the mob, and nothing but the sudden appearance of the soldiers could have prevented them from sacrificing myself, if the mob could have found me, and all my family. I do believe, in my conscience, that the lives of the people protecting my property would have been sacrificed, if they had not been protected by the soldiers. The soldiers remained in the House the first night, but they were not there when it was first attacked. I knew the artifices and misrepresentations which had been used to inflame the people against me; and I felt that I owed to those persons whom it was my duty to protect, to withdraw them from the house to a place of security. The house was broken into on the first attack; and the mob threatened to murder the servants if they did not say where I was to be found. Notwithstanding the protection of which the hon. baronet complained, the House will be so good as to recollect that nay house was attacked two or three times after it was first assailed. The
 103]
 Lord Castlereagh  said:—If, Sir, the hon. baronet had confined himself to his usual topics and to his usual invectives against
 [104 105] [106
 Mr. Paget  bore testimony to the provocation given when the soldiery fired from the House of Mr. Robinson. The populace were very outrageous, and were warned by the military, whom they saw loading their muskets at the windows before the attack was made.
 Sir John Sebright  felt it unnecessary to trouble the House at length, after the manly and constitutional speech of the noble lord. He rose principally to enter his protest against the doctrines of the hon. baronet, who had talked of his constituents as if they alone were the people of England. He thought that a member much better discharged his duty by attendance in his place, than by dealing out declamations to a mob. In this instance he felt himself bound not only to support ministers, but to express his thanks to them for their firmness and moderation. Were he to make any criticism upon their conduct, he should say, that from constitutional motives they had carried lenity too far. It should not be forgotten, that a civil magistrate was placed even at the head of the military. It appeared to him quite justifiable to place men in ambush if it were necessary for the defence of his house; and he begged to state to the hon. baronet, for the information and caution of his constituents of Westminster, that he should defend his castle to the last.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said:—It is not my wish to trouble the House at any length, more particularly upon what has been said regarding myself personally. I am desirous, however, to set myself right with the right hon. gentleman-opposite (Mr. Robinson). I did not attach any blame to him individually, but to the soldiers who were employed. I do not object to any man's defending his house or his property, provided it be done legally and constitutionally. I should like to see every man in the metropolis armed and organized to preserve tranquillity; but I do object to the interference of the soldiers, by which a military despotism, instead of a constitutional defence, would be established. The hon. baronet who spoke last observed, that a police magistrate had been placed at the head of the troops; but does this render the force at all less military, or alter their character? It reminds me of a
 [108 109]
 Sir F. Burdett . It is a matter of perfect indifference to me—the hon. member may do just as he pleases.
 Sir John Sebright  explained, that he did not mean to cast any reflection upon the electors of Westminster: he only alluded to certain persons, whom the hon. baronet was in the habit of addressing in Palace-yard.
 Sir F. Burdett . The hon. baronet should be informed that the householders of Westminster are the electors. The noble lord has termed my arguments with re-
 [110
 Sir F. Burdett . I do know it, and I wish that my assertion was not only a breach of order, but a breach of truth—[Order, order!].
 Mr. Baring  rose to present three Petitions against the Corn Bill, from Mary-le-bonne parish, from Plymouth Dock, and from his constituents at Taunton; the last of which had come just in lime to be thrown on the table and totally disregarded with the many others which had been presented. He hoped it was not necessary for any member of the House to disavow an intention of exciting tumult, as the noble lord (Castlereagh) had called on the opposers of the Corn Bill to do. He admitted that the Government was justified in using all fair exertions to suppress the disturbances, and he therein differed from the hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett), who, whatever he might do with his vote, had thrown the weight of his argument into the scale with the supporters of the Bill. He thought the hon. baronet wrong also as to the relation which he conceived to exist between the ministers and the country gentlemen. The ministers had been made a cat's-paw by the country gentlemen, rather than the country gentlemen by the ministers; who would eat the chesnuts, he could not decide. As to the unfortunate accident in Burlington-street, there was no one, he believed, that would blame the right hon. mover for taking the most effectual means to defend his house; nor would any imputation be cast on him, even if any of the persons employed to defend his property had misbehaved themselves. Although he did not agree with the hon. baronet in his notions of reform, he thought the measure, if carried, would be more efficacious towards producing a reform in that House, than any speech which that hon. baronet had made or could make.
 Lord Castlereagh  said that on Wednesday next, among other information, he should state what had passed on that interesting subject.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said that if, on Wednesday, it was intended to call for any opinion on the conduct of the noble lord, he, for one, should not give any opinion without documents having been laid before him. He should lay in his claim, both for time and authentic documents, before he could come to any decision on the subject.
 Lord Castlereagh  said he perfectly concurred with the right hon. gentleman. What he should do on Wednesday was, to give a general outline of the business at the Congress, and not to call for any decision on his conduct.
 Mr. Protheroe  said, that as in the course of the last two years, he had spoken at least nine times on the subject of the corn laws, he thought it unnecessary to trespass on the time of the House now in rising to move an amendment to the motion which had just been made. He lamented the popular commotions which had taken place, panegyrised the general conduct of the right hon. gentleman who bad brought forward the measure, and concluded by moving, That the Bill be read a third time on that day six months.
 Mr. Fremantle  seconded the amendment, and observed, that the Bill being founded on averages which were known to be fallacious, the operation of it could not be effectual in producing stability of price.
 [116
 Mr. Wilberforce  said the hon. gentleman who had just sat down seemed to think, that all the danger and mischief were on one side only; but if those who had argued in support of the Bill were correct in their opinions, the measure was absolutely necessary. There was a general impression, that the opening of our ports freely for the importation of foreign corn would prevent agriculturists from supplying our home market, and would occasion a general decline and decrease of agriculture. If that were true, what could be more serious, what more alarming? If it were true, it was necessary for the general weal of the empire that the Legislature should adopt proper remedies before it was too late. Gentlemen said, that every thing should be left to find its own level. He admitted this principle generally, but did they not see that in the present state of circumstances it was inapplicable? If the whole of Europe were under one government,—if it were one great family—if all were, as much disposed to dispense happiness as they were often found inclined to injure one another, he should then say, let every country produce that which the nature of its soil and other circumstances may render beneficial, and let it supply other nations with its superabundance. Nothing would be more just than that principle; but it was worthy of the most serious consideration, that those very countries from which we might derive supplies, were countries which, at no great length of time, might be united against this nation. If that were the case, we had sufficient reasons for not trusting to their kindness, or good policy. As to having been supplied by France at a particular period, he begged the House to remember, that that was not owing to the situation of our commerce, but because the French emperor found it a productive source of revenue. But would gentlemen put the happiness of so many millions upon an issue like that? Would they trust to the tender mercies of France for supplies? Would they trust to any commercial interests whatever? No; there could not be any truth more
 117] s., s. [118 s. s. s.
 Lord Barnard  thought a protecting price should given to the grower, and therefore heartily concurred in the present measure.
 Mr. Smyth  (of Cambridge) contended, that the agricultural interest ought not to be denied that artificial protection which parliament had given to every other interest in the country. He would have preferred the price being fixed at 76 s. s. s. s. s.
 Sir Henry Parnell  corrected a misrepresentation which had been very prevalent with regard to the measure which he had proposed upon this subject about two years ago, and insisted that that measure would have been by no means so operative as the present, as his measure would have only added 15 s. 119] 16d.
 Mr. Gore Langton  conceived no principle more sound than this, that the Legislature should not unnecessarily interpose upon any occasion, and therefore thinking the present measure quite unnecessary, he felt it his duty to oppose it. But, independently of this consideration, the public opinion was so decidedly expressed against it, that he should consider himself guilty of a serious dereliction of duty, and unworthy of being the representative of the county of Somerset, if he did not enter his protest against this most iniquitous and abominable measure.
 Mr. C. Grant  thought, that the measure was far from unnecessary. Those who denied that it would lower the price of bread, only paid attention to its immediate and instantaneous, and not its future effect. A precarious market was always a dear one, whilst a secure market would always be a cheap one. The effect of the measure would be to maintain a medium price, and in a short time would probably keep that price even below the medium. The reason that so many petitions had been presented against the Bill, was that manufacturers lived collected in towns, whilst agriculturists were scattered over the country, and had not so many opportunities of assembling. If the Bill should not pass, agriculture would decline, and not only those lands little apt to produce corn would be thrown out of cultivation, but a proper degree of expense and skill could not be bestowed on those of a more favourable kind.
 Mr. Marryalt  did not intend to have once more introduced himself on the House, had it not been for the appeal of of the noble lord who associated the opposers of the Bill with the recent dis-
 [120
 Mr. Gooch  said, that although he opposed the proposition upon this subject in 1813, because he thought it unnecessary from the very high price of wheat, he should support the present measure because the price of wheat was so very low, and the consequent distress of the farmers so very severe.
 Mr. Round  was anxious to treat the representations of the people, as conveyed through constitutional channels to that House, with all possible tenderness and respect, yet could not prevail upon himself to surrender to temporary feeling, the fixed and deliberate conviction of his own judgment upon a question of great national import. He shortly advocated the principle of the Bill, as calculated to give effectual protection to the interests of British agriculture; with confidence afforded to the grower of grain, a most important object of sound policy would be obtained. The rendering this country independent of foreigners in so material an article of its subsistence as bread corn, a plentiful supply would be insured from our own resources, and cheapness must follow a plentiful supply. Such being his conscientious view of the subject, and conceiving the measure (stript of the misrepresentation and misconception which had gone forth respecting it) as tending to promote the real and permanent interests of every class of the people; he trusted the Legislature would continue the calm exercise of its deliberative functions, and persevere in the cause it deemed to be right, for the benefit of the community at large.
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  said, that in this last stage of this obnoxious Bill he felt
 121] s. [122
 Mr. Huskisson , while he allowed that great attention was due to the numerous petitioners who had approached the House on this subject, contended, that in many instances these petitioners had been misled by statements similar to those in which the chief magistrate of the city of London had chosen to indulge. He maintained that unless the measure were adopted, the people of this country would, ere long, be compelled to eat foreign bread, and to eat it at a dear price. Adverting to the argument which had been deduced by the opponents of the Bill from the fact, that during the late war every effort to prevent naval stores from reaching this country had proved ineffectual, he asserted that it went to establish the necessity of the present measure, for that the price of those naval stores had actually been doubled. He trusted that the good sense of the country would at last submit cheerfully to a measure intended to conciliate all conflicting interests.
 Sir W. Curtis  maintained, that the citizens of London were competent to form their own judgment on this subject, and were not likely to be misled by the statement of any individual. The Lord-mayor might, in the warmth of discussion, have gone somewhat too far in stating that bread would be 16 d. s. 123] s.
 Mr. W. Smith  hoped, that one good effect these discussions would produce, would be to cause the method of taking the assize of bread in London to be very closely considered. He did not object to the principle of the measure, but to the price proposed, of which neither evidence nor reasoning had shown the propriety. He lamented that such should have been the rapidity of the proceedings of the House, that many of the petitions intended to be presented to the Commons, would now find their way to the Peers.
 Mr. Tierney  complained, that Parliament were hastening to a decision on this important subject, while the petitions of the people were yet pouring in upon them. All he wished was, that the question should be more fully investigated, and for that purpose he recommended the hon. gentleman who proposed the amendment, to substitute the second Monday after the Easter recess, as the time of reading the Bill a third time. He was convinced that the House were by no means in possession of sufficient information to enable them to decide correctly on a subject of such difficulty, and at the same time of such importance. None of the witnesses who had been examined before the committee were even asked what they conceived would be a fair protecting price in time of peace. Surveyors had said, that for six or seven years past, they were accustomed to estimate the value of land on the supposition that corn would be at 10 s. s. s. s. s. [124
 Mr. Bathurst  rose amidst loud cries for the question, and defended the Bill at considerable length.
 Mr. Baring  opposed it, and said that if the measure should be carried, he would propose two amendments; the one to render it liable to be repealed during the present session, the other to make it coextensive with the Bank Restriction Act. He recommended the hon. mover of the amendment to adopt the suggestion of his right hon. friend near him.
 Mr. Protheroe  however declared, that he had heard nothing to induce him to relinquish or alter his original amendment.
 Mr. Baring  next proceeded to make his two motions; the one for rendering the Bill liable to be amended or repealed during the present session, was agreed to; and that for making its duration co-extensive with that of the Bank Restriction Act, was negatived without a division. The Bill was then passed, and at two in the morning the House adjourned.
 Mr. Baring  contended, that he was strictly in order, as to what he had said respecting parliamentary reform; and he repeated that the measure then before the House would injure the reputation of that House with the people. They would lose more by persevering in that measure than by any act that had ever taken place since he had sat within those walls. He had never said, that there were persons who had not voted conscientiously; but he maintained that this was a question between landed proprietors and the great body of the people. [No! no!] Gentlemen might say "No! no!" but he was persuaded he was right, without following the supporters of the measure in all their agricultural trumpery.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that he would endeavour to produce the treaty of Chaumont before Wednesday. As to the second question, it was true that Government had received information that Buonaparté had landed in France.
 Lord Castlereagh  did not think it right now to reply to any insinuations, if they were intended. The treaty might not be ready before Monday, but at any rate the substance was sufficiently known.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that it would not be a greater stretch to argue upon the substance of the treaty than to vote public money upon it.
 Lord Castlereagh  said that he was not aware that he had provoked language of that imperious kind. Ministers, without being influenced, would pursue that course which had hitherto secured to them the approbation of the House and of the country. Such terms did not become so sagacious and experienced a member. He would take measures to procure the treaty, but surely the substance would answer fully all the purposes of argument.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that no money had been paid under it.
 The Speaker . The hon. baronet has been long enough a member of this House to know that it is a breach of its orders to use such language.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  presented a petition against any alteration in the Corn laws, from Hamilton, Lanerk, and several other places in the Glasgow district of boroughs. The hon. member for Glasgow had been reported to have stated not only that his own opinions on this subject were changed, but that his constituents had also changed their opinions. This report had created a considerable ferment in that part of the country; and he was instructed to state most unequivocally, that their opinions on the subject of the Corn laws were still the same.
 Mr. Sumner  thought, that as the hon. baronet had allowed that he knew he was transgressing the orders of the House, his words should be taken down.—[Cries of No. no!]
 Mr. Tierney  objected to the noble lord, that he made a sort of favour of that which the House had a right to demand; it was the duty of every minister to lay a treaty on which money was voted upon the table the moment it was ratified. He demanded the treaty.
 Mr. Tierney  rose to order. He was convinced, from the well-known benevolent disposition of his hon. friend, that he had not any deliberate intention to cast improper imputations on individuals; but he would perceive that it went to make a member answerable for the consequence which a conscientious support of his opinions in the House might produce out of doors.
 Mr. Howorth , in presenting a petition from the borough of Evesham, observed, that the expectation of the petitioners had been disappointed chiefly in this; they had expected that Parliament would, in the first instance, have made some attempt to relieve the burthens of taxation by a retrenchment of expenditure, and a reduction of establishment. He expressed his entire concurrence in the principle of the petition.
 General Gascoyne  presented a Petition from Liverpool against the Corn laws, signed by 48,000 persons. He stated that this petition had been drawn up and signed without any meeting having been held—from the spontaneous feeling of the inhabitants. The opinion of the people of Liverpool had become decidedly hostile to any alteration in the Corn laws, although formerly they had merely op-
 [112
 Mr. Finlay  said, in presenting two petitions the other day to the House, he had stated that the prayer of one of them was in favour of temporary restriction, and of the other, that the protecting price should not exceed 76 s. s. s. s.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that though he had at different times wished to offer his opinion on the subject of the Bill, he had abstained from doing so, because he saw that the minds of the people were inflamed. There was no man more attached to the constitution of the country than himself; nor could any one be more ready to deprecate any departure from it: but so far from thinking that the military had been improperly employed, he thought the Government highly praiseworthy for calling them out with a view to put down a mob, which threatened destruction both to the favourers and opposers of it. Every man had a right to defend his castle, and those who attacked it must take the consequences of their temerity. Without such resistance on such occasion, no man could safely live in this country. If the worthy baronet had a fancy to have his house razed to the ground, let him indulge his propensity. The gentlemen over the way had done only what was just. Had they succeeded or had they not? Would not more blood have been shed if these measures had not been resorted to? The worthy baronet seemed to like the company of the hustings in Palace-yard better than he liked that House, or the company in it; but he could not agree with any part of the speech of the hon. baronet, because he conceived that he had a right to the protection of the Government; and without affording it as they had done, he should have conceived they had not done their duty. Those who did not like to
 107]
 Mr. Methuen  disclaimed any participation in the sentiments uttered by the hon. baronet.
 Mr. Methuen  spoke to order. The hon. baronet was not warranted in asserting that the House pursued a consistent system of profligacy.
 Mr. Whitbread  begged to know if a treaty, which was not then ratified, and could not consequently be produced, but which had been required from the noble lord as early as July last, and several limes since, would be laid upon the table before the debate
 [114
 Mr. Whitbread  remarked that he hoped the treaty would be forthcoming; the House had voted supplies upon the faith of the ratification of that convention.
 Mr. Whitbread  hoped that the noble lord would produce the treaty on Monday: it contained many matters of importance to the discussion. He hoped that it would turn out that the conduct of Great Britain had been perfectly correct, and that our allies had been equally immaculate in the preservation of their plighted faith.
 Mr. Whitbread  complained of the contemptuous manner in which the noble lord thought fit to treat members. Ministers had secured the vote of money, and now Parliament might obtain the vouchers as they could. He contended that the confidence shewn by Parliament in voting the public money, demanded a different return. The documentary evidence was absolutely necessary; and he
 115]
 Mr. Whitbread  said that the intelligence gave him great satisfaction; and after a few words from lord Castlereagh, the subject was dropped, on an understanding that, if possible, the treaty should be laid upon the table.
 Mr. Brand  continued, that he thought it most improper that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Baring) should have attributed improper motives to any individuals or class of individuals. The consequence had been, that members, that he himself was not able, without personal inconvenience and danger, to attend his duty in that House. It was impossible for him to speak of the statements which he supposed to have produced this, without irritation. He concurred with the hon. baronet in what he had said respecting the representation, except as to the language which the hon. baronet had used on the occasion; but he thought the subject quite irrelevant to a question concerning the mode of promoting the agriculture of the country.
 Mr. Brand  said, that though a friend to a reform of the representation, he thought that question had been most improperly mixed up with the consideration of the manner in which this country might best be supplied with provisions, both by the hon. baronet, and by the hon. gentleman who spoke last. The hon. gentleman, indeed, had mixed up with his speeches all that was inconsistent, heterogeneous, and contradictory—every thing that could excite the public mind, by imputing the most improper motives to the supporters of the Bill; and he must be conscious, however
 113]
 Mr. Wilberforce  wished to know whether the noble lord would give the House some intimation of what had passed at the Congress on the subject of the abolition of the slave trade?
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, that he believed the same feeling existed in the commercial city that he represented.
 Sir John Newport  presented a petition from all the commercial houses of the city of Waterford, with one exception, praying for farther protection to the agriculturist, and slating the great depression under which the farmers of Ireland were labouring, and that the demand for British manufactures and colonial produce had decreased in the proportion of this depression.
 Sir John Newport  said, if it was in this way intended to prevent the city of Waterford from receiving due attention because it was concerned in the exporting of Irish corn, he had an equal right to say that a great part of the cities who had petitioned on the ether side were concerned in the importation of foreign corn. It was hard that no petition in favour of the Bill could be presented either from landholders or commercial men, without injurious, charges being affixed to them either by the hon. gentleman or those who took the same side with him. The city of Waterford was as much entitled to a respectful hearing as the city of London.
 Sir Thomas Acland  presented a petition from the landholders and occupiers of land
 97]
 Mr. Gooch  said, in the county which he represented, there never were so many persons out of employment as at present, independent of the hands discharged from the army and navy.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion that it was impossible to pass over the conduct of the magistrates without notice. He would recall to the recollection of the House, that the noble lord (Castlereagh) had objected to any admonition being given to those persons on Monday night, because be considered that any discussion upon the subject would have kept them from those duties which at that time required their presence. It was then understood that their conduct was liable to inquiry on a future occasion, and, in obedience to that feeling, he conceived an inquiry should now take place. He thought with his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread), that the conduct of the High Bailiff had been particularly reprehensible, because he was the person, of all others, to whom he believed the House ought to look for protection, and yet he, of all others, seemed to be most ignorant of what was passing. With respect to the hazard in which it was stated by the right hon. gentleman, who spoke last, the constables would have been placed by remaining without the doors of the House, he considered it of less importance that they should run risks, than that the members of the House should be prevented from performing their parliamentary duties. It was, in fact, a necessary attendant upon the office of constable, that he should expose his person to danger; and if such an excuse were to be received as a ground for neglect of duty, the necessary consequence would be, that on all occasions the military must be resorted to. Upon the whole, he could not help being of opinion, that there had been great re-
 [154
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  took a view of the establishment of the South Sea Company, and observed that this corporation possessed the exclusive privilege of trading to America, from the river Oroo-noko, round Cape Horn to the north-west coast of that continent. This exclusive privilege had for many years been of no advantage to that Company; but South America having become at last open to us, it might become a great obstacle to our commerce. He therefore had to state the terms on which the Company were willing to sell it to the country. That Company had lent all its capital to the Government, for which they received 3 l. l. l. l. [158 l. l. l. s l. l. s s d l. l.
 Mr. Bennet  thought the proposition just and equitable; but he wished to make some observations on the state of the country which was the subject of the law on which they were deliberating, viz. South America. All that continent was now in arms, and the spectacle of a great nation struggling for liberty had always been regarded with peculiar interest by this country. He wished to know whether any steps had been taken by this country to mediate between the mother country and the colonies? The consequence of the dreadful-
 159] [160
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted the committee would see the propriety of his declining on this occasion to enter into details of such delicacy as were referred to by the hon. member, and the more so as the hon. member's observations were not properly relevant to the subject before the committee. He had, however, no difficulty in stating, that upon the offer of mediation which had been made on our part between Spain and its colonies, his Majesty's ministers were always ready to act. In our endeavours, indeed, to procure independence and liberty for Old Spain, we had ever been equally anxious to obtain the liberty of its colonies. Upon the commercial advantage likely to accrue to this country from the establishment of a complete freedom of trade in South America, he should at present abstain from delivering any opinion; but, however interesting or important that freedom might be, neutrality, in the present contest between South America and the mother country, was the duty and the resolution of Great Britain; which never could attempt to seek any object, however beneficial, from a connexion with the former, that should be tainted with, any thing like treachery towards the latter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated
 [162
 Mr. Ponsonby  considered the subject of South America as one of the greatest importance and delicacy. He was far from recommending one step on either side inconsistent with the good faith of Government, or in violation of our neutrality. At the same time he was free to say, that there was no foreign country whatever in the fate of which Great Britain was so much interested as with South America. For he had no doubt that the establishment of the independence of that country, and the detaching of it from Old Spain, was to us an object of the highest importance; but he was equally positive that that object, however desirable, should not be pursued by any means whatever incompatible with our public faith. It was the duty of our Government to attend strictly to its engagements, but at the same time he should hold it imperiously bound in no degree to assist the projects Of Old Spain against the liberties of South America.
 Mr. Wynn  concurred with his right hon. friend as to the propriety of observing a strict neutrality in the present contest between Old Spain and South America, but he could not conceive it compatible with that neutrality to refuse that hospitality to the people of South America; which ws afforded to their opponents. This proceeding did certainly not manifest good faith, and he was surprised at the silence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the subject. But he was equally surprised at the undue levity with which the right hon. gentleman had spoken of the grant of the Order of the Garter to Ferdinand. How was it possible that the right hon. gentleman could so undervalue an honour which had been so highly estimated among the first, monarchs in Europe? This distinction had,
 163]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the object of the House in taking these
 151]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied in the negative; but the intention was to take the monopoly out of its hands.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that no opportunity would be lost to produce the effect alluded to.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  read the words of the Act, and repeated, that he did not consider the Treasury empowered by it to issue Exchequer-bills to an unlimited extent, because Parliament might afterwards grant supplies to cover them. The accounts of those Exchequer-bills which had been issued would be forthcoming when any member should choose to move for them.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, he objected to receiving the report, because the minister of finance had come down to that House, and asked for enormous supplies without condescending to state for what purposes they were required. Such a practice was perfectly new to that House. The right hon. gentleman had told them they were to have a peace establishment of nineteen millions; but he had not imparted a single tittle of information as to the items and heads of that expenditure. If the House of Commons sanctioned such a proceeding, they would at once surrender their control over the public purse and the ministers of the Crown. On that ground, therefore, he should certainly take the sense of the House upon receiving the report.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that it would be most satisfactory to every member of that House, and to no one more so than to himself, if, when they entered into the discussion of what should be the peace establishment of the country, any means could be devised for reducing it below what had been proposed. That question, however, was not now before them; and the grounds upon which the House was then called upon to agree to the report, was that the grants had already been voted by Parliament. Nor would they be at all pledged, by agreeing to the report, as to their future proceedings with respect to the proposed plan of finance. They merely provided for sums which had been already voted. When the time came for considering the various estimates for the service of the present year, he should call upon the House for its most patient and deliberate attention to the subject, and should thank any honourable gentleman who could lighten his heavy labours by shewing how the peace establishment might be made less.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he perfectly agreed with the right hon. gentleman in the general parliamentary principle which he had laid down, that the ways and means should not exceed the supplies voted; and he hoped he should be able to satisfy that right hon. gentleman and the House, that on the present occasion he had not infringed upon that principle. The right hon. gentleman would himself be convinced, when he reminded him that he had omitted two or three considerable sums which had been voted by Parliament. Among these sums was one of twelve millions and a half, for the repayment of Exchequer-bills, and another of fifteen millions. It should be recollected that they had voted supplies to the amount of fifty-one millions, and the ways and means only for thirty-one millions, leaving a deficiency of twenty millions to be made good. With regard to the act empowering the Treasury to issue Exchequer-bills, he did not consider that it gave any authority to anticipate the aids which had not yet been granted by Parliament. There certainly had been an issue of Exchequer-bills, but they were not issued upon taxes which Parliament had not yet granted, but upon the aid of fifteen millions which had been voted last year.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  contended, that the inference of the right hon. gentleman was not a correct one. By agreeing to the report, they would only agree to provide a certain sum by way of taxes; but they would not therefore agree to the taxes themselves. As to the amount of that sum, every one would feel that what was proposed to be raised by those taxes could not be regarded as unnecessary, even if the expenses of the country were cut down to what they were before the French Revolution. He really thought, indeed, that he was much more liable to objection for not bringing forward taxes to a greater extent, than for proposing what he had.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, he would repeat the grounds of his objection. The right hon. gentleman having stated a certain motion, and told the House that 19 millions were necessary for a peace establishment, then desired them to adopt his plan, without entering into particulars, and shewing how the money was to be applied. This mode of voting supplies at different times was what he most particularly objected to; and he protested against it as an innovation upon former practice, and altogether unconstitutional.
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that ministers had not told the House a syllable as to the his situation of the country. It was not real intention at that time to make any comment on the taxes; but when they came before the House, it would be his duty to oppose them, for he objected to them all. He considered it proper to abolish situations where there was pay without services; and, indeed, to put Government itself upon short allowance.
 Mr. Douglas  objected to the confusion arising from the transfer of the ways and means of one year to the supply of another. He recommended to the right hon. gentleman to postpone any further proceeding on this subject until after Wednesday, as the explanations, which would then be given by a noble lord, would probably affect it materially. Certainly, if there was a time in which this country had a right to expect that she should be secured from being again engaged in continental warfare, it was the present; and we had an undoubted right to find that our representative at the Congress had so secured her. He had old prejudices enough left to entertain a horror at the thought of England's degenerating wholly into a military country. Every approach to such a state shook the foundations of our national character. He earnestly wished that the recollections of the war might be obliterated with the war itself, and that from a nation of soldiers we might become a nation of citizens, trusting to our energy and patriotism for defence against an enemy, should any
 [170
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that with respect to one of those taxes, to which the objections of the hon. gentlemen were probably the most strong (the tax on windows), he intended to reserve it for further consideration, and for a revision of the schedule.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that one of the resolutions was to continue all the war duties of excise, "with the exception of that on cotton imported in British shipping." The whole extent of his offending, therefore, was, that he did not propose to take off the duty on cotton imported in foreign shipping; the difference of expense on which to the manufacturer would not be above a halfpenny a pound.
 Mr. W. Fitzgerald  said, that the only
 173]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that that was not the tax then under consideration.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, the House would recollect that it was understood, on the night alluded to, that information should be given to the magistrates of the feelings which the House entertained of their conduct. [Mr. Whitbread here remarked, that there was nothing on the Journals to this effect.] Mr. Bathurst, in continuation, observed, that Mr. Morris, the high bailiff, was in fact under the direction of other magistrates, at the head of whom was sir N. Conant, who at the time the outrages were taking place, was acting as the chief, from whom orders were received; but from the immense multitude which had assembled, he believed it was impossible to have avoided calling out the military. With respect to the assertion, that the calling out the military had produced the other outrages which had been committed, he believed this would not for a moment
 153]
 Mr. F. Douglas  thought it of importance, that the conduct of the civil officers should be minutely inquired into, not so much with a view to punish or to censure the past, as to guard against a recurrence of the evil complained of. However he might regret some of the events which had taken place, he should always remember with pleasure the firmness and dignity which that House had displayed, and exult in the reflexion, that not one of its members had mistaken the clamour of a mob for the voice of the people.
 Mr. Philips  was proceeding to make some observations on the partial and oppressive nature of the proposed taxes, when
 Mr. Philips  repeated the statement of its being a duty of 5 d
 Mr. Philips  then adverted to the proposed duty on cotton, and remarked on the inconsistency of the right hon. gentleman, who no longer ago than last session had declared, that in the event of peace it would be impossible for our manufacturers to go on without a drawback, and who now imposed a duty of 5 d [172
 Mr. Tierney  replied, that the great object was to have the whole matter before them at once. If, for example, they knew how much would be wanted for the present year, they would then be able to say what portion should be raised by taxes, and what by loan. For himself, he really had no conception what would be the extent of supply required for the present year; and the whole subject demanded more explanation than the right ton. gentleman was yet in a condition to give them. All be wanted was, that they might not be called upon to vote in the dark; and he wished the right hon. gentleman would take the five millions, intended to be raised by the new taxes, in some other way for the present, and leave the other to future discussion, when he would be able to tell how much he required.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that by the plan which, the right hon. gentleman adopted, he might issue Exchequer-bills to an unlimited extent. There was the great evil, and that we were now, though in a state of peace, pursuing the same plan as during the war. He certainly thought that the whole was irregular.
 Mr. Tierney  denied that the five millions of new taxes were to be considered as a part of the ordinary aids of the year. they voted for receiving the report, surely they would be recognizing the plan of the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Tierney  repeated and enforced his objections to the proposition of the right hon. gentleman, to grant the ways and means before the supply was voted, conceiving such a course inconsistent with the established practice of Parliament The only supply yet voted was 24 mil-
 [164
 Mr. Bankes  declared, that if he thought the proposed voles were to cover any insidious machinations—that under the pretence of one object, the House was called upon to vote means which were to be applied to another, he would not only oppose the motion himself, but would use all the little influence which he possessed to induce the House to reject it. But this could by no possibility be the case. The sums now demanded, and much more, must be voted, to make good the supplies to which Parliament had already agreed. As to the explanation demanded of his right hon. friend, with respect to the peace establishment, it was evident that his right hon. friend only waited until he might be able to speak decidedly on the subject. Who could yet tell what might be our ultimate relations with America? Who could tell to what expense for the next twelvemonth this country might be put by the extraordinary occurrence of which we had been informed only within the last two or three days? He could assure the noble lord who had just spoken, that as far as his humble endeavours could go, they should be directed—not to cut down the peace establishment below what was necessary, but to bring it down as low as was consistent with the safety of the country; and above all, to take care that what remained of expense should be employed not in external show, but in real and solid strength. The measures proposed by his right hon. friend appeared to him to be much preferable to raising a larger loan, or to any encroachment on the Sinking. Fund. Certainly, unpopular as was the sentiment, he did conceive that a continuation of the property-tax, under some modification, would have been a still wiser plan; and he sincerely believed, that when the good sense of the country returned upon this subject, his opinion would become pretty general. Did he therefore reproach ministers for having abandoned it? By no means. The strong hostility exhibited towards the tax at the present moment, and the consideration, that its conservation would have been a kind of breach of parliamentary faith, were sufficient grounds for inducing his right hon. friend to relinquish a tax, the good qualities of which his comprehensive mind must have suffi-
 169]
 Mr. Wrottesley  could not agree that the magistrates were altogether exempt from blame. He remarked on the evidence of the high bailiff, who had stated that he had about 50 out of his 80 constables about the House; that that force was insufficient to repress the mob; but that he did not take any measures to procure additional force, relying on Messrs. Baker and Birnie, whom he knew were in attendance. He did not, however, communicate with them. His reliance on Mr. Baker was much to his credit, as there was a marked difference between the conduct of that gentleman and that of the other persons who had been examined at the bar. He thought the high bailiff blameable in not communicating with the police magistrates. Some measures, he thought, should be taken to let the magistrates know that it was necessary for them to take proper methods to stifle tumults in their commencement; for he was confident that with the help of a few constables at the beginning of the evening the riot might have been altogether suppressed, by taking such persons into custody as refused to disperse. He observed, that it was extraordinary that none of the persons had been apprehended, who had defiled the walls about the metropolis with the most inflammatory inscriptions. He thought this might have been done by the ordinary exertion of the Police.
 Mr. Hammersley  thought the police laws defective, there being no provision for an extraordinary number of constables in case of riots. He hoped that the persons to whom this department of the government was entrusted, would pay attention to the subject.
 Mr. Addington  observed, that the charges brought against the magistrates seemed to be, that they had not been in their proper stations at the time of the riot, and that they had not made a judicious disposition of the civil force. Now, the first charge could only amount to an error in judgment; and he admitted that if they had been on the outside of the building, they would have been better able to direct the constables. As to the second charge, he thought it too much to expect, that on the first occasion, they should have been able to make the most judicious disposition of the civil power, which it was possible to make. The chief magistrate of Bow-street had been desired to be present at the Secretary of State's office during the evening in question. From a laudable degree of zeal he came down to the House in the beginning of the evening, and there continued till between eight and nine o'clock, being then on the outside of the building, when he was called suddenly away, his presence being necessary in another quarter of the town. The magistrates within were not aware that he was called off, and it was from this, he believed, that the circumstances had taken place which had given rise to the imputation of remissness. The conduct of the magistrates had been marked, since that period, with a great degree of zeal and assiduity, and he hoped the House would not think it proper to visit them with a punishment so heavy as its censure.
 Mr. Addington  stated there were at least thirty rioters in custody.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  stated, that as far as he had witnessed the conduct of the magistrates on the night in question, they had been very active. The high bailiff, he thought, had exerted himself to the ut-
 157]
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  inquired, whether it was intended to abolish the South Sea Company altogether?
 Mr. J. P. Grant  objected to going into the committee, until the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid before the House a distinct and comprehensive statement of the whole of our financial relations. He was at a loss to conjecture of what votes the supply which the right hon. gentleman asserted had been agreed to by the House, was made up; and expressed himself particularly unable to understand how the two sums of 15 millions and 12 millions and a half, to make good the issue of Exchequer-bills on the aids of the year 1814, were to be considered.
 Mr. Lockhart  was willing that the proceedings which had taken place should be consigned to oblivion, as far as the punishment of the magistrates was Concerned; but he wished their recollection to survive, in order that such measures of precaution might be taken as should make it unnecessary to call out the military on any similar occasion. He wished to see the constables young, healthy, and vigorous, instead of decayed and decrepid men, like those which he had seen on the late occasion, who appeared to be incapable of acting with effect, although he found they had foolish vanity enough to be jealous of each other. He understood such a feeling had caused a difference between the officers from Bow-street and those of other offices. He was of opinion that a civil force, better headed, and better organized, ought to be at hand on such occasions. He wished the old law, of calling out the house keepers of each parish when the public peace was endangered, were again resorted to, places of rendezvous named, and other arrangements made for their being speedily assembled, and effectually engaged to quell the disturbance. If such measures were not adopted, the capital might one day fall into the hands of a mob, who might not be kept down till they had done it great, and almost irreparable injury. He took occasion to censure the conduct of certain persons forming the jury on a coroner's inquest, who had promulgated authoritatively what they took upon themselves to lay down as the law, though he would not acknowledge it to be so. He controverted the opinions published by the jury, who lately sat on the body of the officer unfortunately killed in Burlington-
 155]
 Mr. Butterworth  said, that he had experienced some difficulty in reaching his carriage, about eight o'clock of the evening in question; but on that occasion, as well as on his return to the House about an hour afterwards, the constables exerted themselves to the utmost to clear the way.
 Mr. Finlay  declared, that he considered the right hon. gentleman as the most formidable antagonist that the manufacturing interest of the country had ever met with. The proposed system was so ruinous, that he would give it the most determined opposition in every instance. By it the property tax would not merely be continued on the manufacturer—it would be more than doubled. A manufacturer would now have to pay near 3,000 l. l.
 Mr. Whitbread  expressed his admiration of the sentiments of the hon. gentleman who had just spoken. The original and wholesome practice of the constitution was, that the ministers of the Crown should first state to Parliament the whole of the supplies which were requisite, and then obtain the ways and means of providing for those supplies. Of late years, however, the budget had been brought forward by piecemeal (a system which originated with Mr. Perceval), so that the House never could have the whole system under review at one time. He admitted that circumstances might embarrass the right hon. gentleman as to his exact estimate of the peace establishment; but an easy remedy was, to delay further proceedings at present—at least to postpone them until the expected explanations of the noble lord, by throwing a light on the determinations of Congress, should give the House an opportunity of judging of the probable results of its deliberations. He confessed he was not surprised at the eulogium which he had heard from the right hon. gentleman, and from an hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Bankes), on the property tax. Like all deceased personages, its vices had vanished from memory, and only its virtues remained. People were generally favourable to the dead; but it should be remembered that that tax was objectionable—not because it was a tax on property—but because it was impossible to divest its mode of collection from partiality and oppression intolerable in a free constitution. It should also be remembered that the property tax was not absolutely dead—it only slept. The right hon. gentleman had wedded it to war. It would be up again if we were again involved in hostilities. And here he could not refrain from noticing the hint which had fallen from a noble lord and from the hon. gentleman on the floor. It was evident that in estimating the peace establishment at nineteen millions, a troubled state of things was contemplated, and perhaps the recurrence of bloody wars arising out of the proceedings of the Congress. But
 171]
 Mr. Whitbread  asked, whether any farther steps had been taken for the liberation from Ceuta of M. Correa, and the gentlemen surrendered by general Campbell?
 Mr. Whitbread  explained, that it was not his intention to lump all the magistrates, who had been examined, in the charge which he thought should be made against some of them. It was well for the right hon. gentleman who defended them to confound them; but he did not mean to attack them altogether.
 Mr. Whitbread  thought, that as the subject before the committee referred to the opening of a free trade with South America, the opportunity had been very properly chosen by his hon. friend to bring forward the questions to which he had adverted. The proposition being to open the South American ports his hon. friend very naturally submitted some inquiries with regard to that country. His hon. friend had therefore asked, whether, in the contest in which (he would not say the colonies, but) New Spain was engaged with Old Spain, the government of the
 161]
 Mr. Whitbread  was sorry to be under the necessity of bringing back to the recollection of the House, the evidence which was taken on the night in question, from the nature and effect of which he conceived the motion of the right hon. gentleman was by no means such a motion as the House could agree to, with a due regard to its own character. The right hon. gentleman, however, had not contented himself with merely moving, that the order should be discharged, but had intimated that the magistrates were almost without blame; and, by a panegyric upon their subsequent conduct, seemed desirous of at once wiping out all recollection of their previous proceedings. Now, what was the real history of the transaction? With respect to the precautions taken, upon the part of the Secretary of State and that of the Speaker, nothing could have been more proper or creditable to their vigilance; but, unfortunately, those precautions were rendered nugatory by the conduct of the magistrates to whom the execution of the orders given was entrusted. Notice, it was seen, had been given to the High Bailiff of Westminster of
 [152
 Mr. Elliot  said, that in opposing the motion, he gave a vote which he was obliged to give, from the utter want of information to satisfy the House of the necessity of the taxes they were about to vote.
 Sir C. Monck  observed, that the Speaker of the House was not supposed to know any thing about the preservation of the peace; having given orders for their attendance, it was the duty of the magistrates to take all proper measures. He thought it most extraordinary that a verdict of murder had been returned against the soldiers, while it did not appear that any rioters were in custody, or that any attempt at arson or murder had appeared on the part of the populace.
 Sir Robert Heron  observed, that the plan, of the right hon. gentleman was in direct opposition to the interests of the nation. For what purpose were we to threaten the countries around us with a fear of war? He must protest against voting supplies to such an amount, without insisting on one resource,—he meant that of the most strict economy, which ought to pervade every
 167]
 Sir John Newport  said, that his objection to the Speaker's leaving the chair was, that it went to perpetuate a system of voting the supplies of the year by piecemeal, and not giving sufficient information to the House, contrary to the old and constitutional practice. The taxes might be good or bad relatively; and that was the reason why they ought to be informed of the situation of the country. The whole demand, and every article of it, should be known before the supplies were voted. In time of war it might be different; but in peace, they should return to that wholesome principle.
 Lord Milton  declared himself to be in a similar difficulty, arising either from his own misapprehension of the subject, or from the mystery in which it appeared to be purposely involved. If he was right in his supposition, they were, as far as the five millions were concerned, about to vote en establishment for four years to come.
 [168
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the treaty would, no doubt, be laid before the House; but that he was not aware of any intention to present the papers alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman, respecting the conduct of the negociations at Ghent.
 Mr. Horner  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer when a copy of the treaty-concluded with America would be laid before the House, and whether it was intended to accompany it with copies of the correspondence which took place in the course of the negociation at Ghent?
 MR. Finlay  presented a petition from the cotton-spinners and manufacturers of Glasgow, praying for a repeal of the duty on cotton, and staling that the drawback on cotton exported would be quite ineffectual. The hon. member, in presenting the petition, made some observations on the impolicy of the duty proposed to be laid on cotton imported in foreign ships. The effect of this, he observed, would be to make a  depôt
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that in consequence of a communication from the noble viscount, Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who was indisposed, he should defer his motion respecting our foreign relations, which stood for to-morrow, to Monday; and he hoped that, as he had stated the reason for his postponement, his motion on that day
 [174
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, a "Copy of a Treaty of Peace and Amity between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, signed at Ghent, 24th of December 1814; the Ratifications of which Treaty were exchanged at Washington the 17th February, 1815." The noble lord said, he should move that on Wednesday next the Report be taken into consideration by the House.
 Lord Castereagh  replied, that he by no means considered it a matter of course, that the Executive should lay before the House all the papers which passed preceding the treaty. He conceived that the treaty itself might be submitted to the House for its approbation, and that it might be judged of on its own merits. This treaty had restored the two countries to peace, and it would be for the House to judge whether there was any thing in it contrary to the honour or the interests of Great Britain. It was not usual to lay before the House the details of a negociation which ended in a treaty, unless the House should see something so reprehensible in the conduct of Government as to call for those details.
 Lord Castlereagh  did not conceive that our proceedings ought to be regulated by the conduct of another government, especially when that conduct was designated by the hon. gentleman himself as irregular and improper.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented to the House, by the command of the Prince Regent, the following
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent,
 Lord Castlereagh  also presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following
 Lord Castlereagh  requested the right hon. baronet whose motion respecting the Alien Act stood for that evening, to postpone it.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that not being in possession of the nature of the hon. member's motion, he could not offer any opinion as to the propriety or impropriety of postponing a discussion upon it. For his own part, he had no wish that it should be postponed; indeed, he saw no reason for postponing it at all. He had only requested its being deferred to Wednesday, on account of his health; and he should be glad of an opportunity to give any information which he could afford consistently with his public duty. He should therefore be happy to meet the hon. gentleman on this ground, as soon as possible. He was not aware of any thing which this country had done to preclude him from bringing down such papers as he had alluded to, and accompanying them with any explanations that ought to be communicated. This he thought would be more agreeable to the House than bringing down such papers as from the present state of things could not possibly be complete, and laying them on the table without any explanation at all. As to the conduct of this Government, he was conscious that it would not deviate from that spirit of good faith which had ever guided it in all its transactions with foreign
 [230
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that nothing could be more unobjectionable than the motion of the hon. member, and the course which he meant to pursue. He appealed to the House, whether the communication being withheld was not less extraordinary, than would have been a communication on the part of the Crown, made before the Congress had ended? Was it not most extraordinary that such a communication could have been expected? It was proper also to remark, though he meant not to complain of the conduct of the hon. member, that more questions had been put during the progress of the negociations at Vienna, than it had ever been the habit of parliament on any former occasion.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that unless the noble lord thought proper to disclose the whole of the case, he should not be prepared to give his opinion upon it. He must protest against the House being called upon for an opinion, unless they were put in possession of the whole of the case. He must consider himself bound not to give his approbation on a mere partial statement.
 Lord Castlereagh  applauded the reserve with which the right hon. gentleman expressed himself on the present occasion; and be could have wished that the same reserve had been more extensively employed upon former occasions.
 Mr. A. Browne  expressed himself satisfied with the conciliatory disposition of his Majesty's Government, and hoped the mercy of the Crown would be still further extended to Mr. Lovell.
 Mr. Bathurst  thought that the public was entitled to some security, and that it was extraordinary that any man of sufficient character to conduct a newspaper should not be able to find two sureties in the sum of 250 l 
 Mr. Bathurst  disclaimed the intention of saying any thing injurious to the private character of the petitioner, of which he really knew nothing; but added, that he could not conceive how any individual or individuals could deem themselves liable to an imputation in paying the sum required for the petitioner's security, if such a disposition existed.
 Mr. Horner  said, that if the papers were not produced, the noble lord would have no other case but those papers, which had already, irregularly and improperly, as he thought, been made public by the American Government.
 Mr. Horner  wished to know whether it was the intention of the noble lord to lay before the House the papers respecting the negociation which had led to the treaty.
 Mr. Addington  stated, that the fine had been already remitted, and the sum required from the two sureties reduced from 500 l. l.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  joined in the humane intreaties of Mr. Whitbread, and stated the distressed circumstances of Mr. Lovell. He had communicated to Mr. Lovell the intentions of the Government. He had, however, tried all his friends, and could not get any two persons to step forward in the security of 250 l.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  concurred in the opinion of the right hon. baronet; for, four months having elapsed since the fine imposed upon the petitioner was remitted, and his security was mitigated, it was obvious that he would not have so long remained in prison, if he were not unable to procure bail.
 Mr. Whitbread  repeated his hope that ministers would accede to the petitioner's prayer: it was evident, from the extreme length of the petitioner's imprisonment, that the ends of justice could in no degree suffer by the grant of mercy on this occasion; for this was indeed an extreme case, which could not be drawn into precedent, while the punishment suffered by the petitioner, was surely sufficient to make a due impression upon his own mind and upon the mind of others also.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that he had a motion respecting the case of Mr. Correa, which stood for that evening, and which he should also postpone. He should mention, that in the absence of the noble lord he had postponed his motion respecting the proceedings of the Congress at Vienna to Monday next; he wished to know whe-
 229]
 Mr. Whitbread  stated, that he had taken occasion to visit Mr. Lovell in Newgate, and that he should not have presented this petition, if he was not fully satisfied of
 233]
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the petition acknowledged the lenity of the Crown, but the petitioner was unable to find even the sureties now required. He hoped his Majesty's Government would extend full mercy to this unhappy man, who had suffered a severe sentence, and a great aggravation of it.
 Mr. Whitbread  presented a Petition from Mr. Lovell, the proprietor of "The Statesman," taking notice of his former Petition presented to the House on the 23d of November last; and setting forth:
 "That, since the same was presented, the petitioner has been officially informed,
 [232 l. l. l.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that one of the extraordinary features in the case was the noble lord's appearance in his place. If the affairs of the Congress had not terminated, why had the noble lord returned? Or if his presence there was not necessary, why had he gone thither? If nothing had transpired on the subject of the Congress, no questions would have been heard from him. His questions had been founded on public documents, naturally the subjects of animadversion; and those documents he should bring forward on Monday, as matters of charge against the noble lord, who, if it was possible, might refute them.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he had no objection to state the nature of his intended motion; it was for an Address to the Prince Regent for a communication of such part of the proceedings at Vienna, as could be made known without injury to the public service. He still thought it extraordinary that the noble lord, on his return from an important mission, would not make any communication to the House until he was, as it were, arraigned before them. In bringing forward his motion he should not neglect to bring before the House those facts by which imputation had been cast on the honour and good faith of the country, which the noble lord would refute if he could. If the noble lord succeeded in justifying himself, he (Mr. W.) should be the first to acknowledge the error into which he had been led by publications which bore the semblance of authority. As to the affairs of France, he had not alluded to them with any idea that he should have been attended to, but to protest, and he again protested, against any
 231]
 Sir J. Newport  consented to the postponement of his motion until Tuesday.
 Sir J. Newport  thought the continuance of the petitioner in confinement, furnished demonstrative proof of his incapacity to procure bail, and he was therefore astonished at the doubt expressed upon that point.
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that if such large sums of public money were to be given to keep up the roads in the Highlands of Scotland, Parliament should also consider whether something ought not to be given to keep up and repair the roads in the mountainous parts of Wales, which lay in
 253]
 Mr. Abercrombie  said, as Parliament had originally agreed to this speculation, there could be no doubt of the propriety of voting the sum now required to carry it
 [254 l.
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote  wished to take this opportunity of expressing his concurrence in what had fallen from his hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread) on a former evening, as to the impropriety of this country taking any part in the present disturbances in France. Whether Napoleon or Louis was at the head of the French government, he thought we ought to preserve relations of amity with that country, and not again plunge into a new war. Having said so much, he would not bore the House with any further observations.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the gentleman in question had been extremely useful in the formation of the institution.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  stated, that Dr. Clarke had ceased to possess the benefit of his Irish livings.
 The Speaker  stated, that he was in his official capacity in the commission under the Act, in pursuance of which this sum was proposed to be voted: the purpose was to make navigable a communication of about 50 or 60 miles, between the two places in question, which would open a navigable communication between the Eastern and Western Sea. The original estimate was 500,000 l., l., l. s.
 The Speaker,  being one of the commissioners under the act of parliament to superintend the erection of bridges and the making of roads in the Highlands of Scotland, wished to state the proceeding which had taken place under that Act. The effect produced by the Act was, that
 [252 mare importuosum. l. . l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  explained that this grant was not for French emigrants, but for French Protestant Clergymen who had been driven to this country by the revocation of the edict of Nantes. sl.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, the auditor was a clergyman, and assisted the chaplain of the institution in the execution of his duties.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  had no objection to the proposed committee; but he would suggest to its proposer to pay the asylum a visit during the Easter recess, and satisfy himself, respecting the establishment. The auditor neglected his Irish livings to attend to this institution, and he therefore conceived the salary not exorbitant.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that the gentleman had lost his livings in Ireland by attending to his duty as auditor of accounts.
 Mr. Croker  did not mean to go so far as the hon. gentleman insinuated, in his objection to the system; but he thought it wrong that the children of officers and seamen should be associated together in the institution. The numbers which the school establishment embraced were, 700 boys, and 300 girls. The former were
 [256
 Mr. Croker  said, the governor was selected from the list of meritorious naval captains, and the emoluments were not greater than his pay, if on actual service. The auditor was the only person not selected from those who had served in the navy. So far as he was acquainted with the Society; (and from his situation, he was a governor,) he denied it was a job. It was a fair provision for meritorious naval characters, and at the same time a useful asylum for the children of seamen. He was willing to admit that the institution was objectionable, from the admission to it being so general, he having a strong dislike to see the children of officers on the same level with those of common sailors, in the system of their education. With reference to the duties of the auditor, they embraced the inspection of larger sums than the 25,000 l.
 Mr. Whitbread  said he was then one of the happy founders who drew a benefit from his labours. The school was intended for 1,000 children. How many were actually there at present? From what the Secretary of the Admiralty had said, he (Mr. W.) thought a committee should be appointed to inquire into the management of the School, as it was stated by that hon. gentleman to be evidently defective.
 Mr. Whitbread  thought that 300 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Whitbread  was at a loss to know what a clergyman had to do with auditing accounts.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that this large item he believed had originated in a voluntary contribution, by which the institution was at first established, being afterwards taken under the auspices of Government. On going over the sums of which this total of 25,068 l. l.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought that every case ought to stand on its own legs. He had no objection to voting the sum proposed, and afterwards, if a proper case was made out, he should see no objection to a similar vole for roads in Wales, where it was evident that the roads would not be so beneficial to the districts immediately adjoining, as that they could be fairly called upon to pay the whole expense of them. l.
 Sir C. Pole  conceived the establishment improper, from the irresponsible enormous expenditure which was lavished without control, in its buildings.
 Sir John Newport  observed, that this clergyman, in addition to being auditor of the institution, Was also auditor of the
 255]
 Sir John Newport  thought, that the road to Ireland should be as much attended to by the Parliament of the United Kingdom, as the roads through the Highlands of Scotland. As to the roads in Ireland, they were well kept up by county assessments.
 Lord Castlereagh  assured the House, that he regretted extremely the necessity imposed upon him of addressing them at great length on this subject, feeling, as he did, the importance as far as he was able, and premature as the hon. gentleman's wish for information was, to rescue the honour and interests of this country, bound up, as they were, in the honour and interests of Europe, from the evil of that misrepresentation to which they had been subject. He was persuaded that the House would agree with him, that not only the interests of Europe were intimately concerned in this question; but that if any vestige of character remained to the councils of this country, or of those Sovereigns to whom the safely of the world had been entrusted at a period heretofore perilous indeed, and still more so if that part of the alternative of the drama, with the description of which the hon. gentleman had closed his speech, should unfortunately be realized—a realization that he trusted, under the existing circumstances, would never occur—to that character it was due, that as full an explanation should be afforded as was consistent with the observance of a sound discretion. The question whether the councils of those
 283] [284 285] [286 287] [288 289] [290 291] [292 293] [294 295] [296 297] [298 299] [300 301] [302 303]
 Lord Castlereagh , in explanation, observed, that he had not argued that lord W. Bentinck in any respect had acted inconsistently with his duty; on the contrary, the foundation of what he had said with regard to Genoa was, that the British minister having no such power, had not re-established permanently, but only provisionally, the ancient government of the capital of the Ligurian Republic.
 Mr. Ponsonby  argued, that the noble lord could only escape from the charge by removing the weight to lord W. Bentinck, as he had done, in fact, though not perhaps in argument, in the course of his speech. He hoped that the original instructions to the British minister in Italy would be produced upon some future occasion. He did not understand the very unsatisfactory explanation made by the noble lord with regard to Poland. What was meant by the assertion 'that the Poles would be governed as Poles?' Had they not been so governed heretofore? and it so, what new advantage had they acquired? With respect to Saxony, the noble lord's statement was by no means convincing, and he hoped that all the documents would be laid upon the table, and that the noble lord would be ready to give the necessary explanations. It appeared to him, that a very extraordinary and unparliamentary course had been pursued upon the present occasion, for the noble lord, contrary to all practice, had first made his speech, and then was to produce the papers. After the Easter recess he would probably make some motion upon the subject, but in the mean time, until all the information was afforded, he protested against being supposed to give any opinion upon the subject.
 Mr. Whitbread , in reply, remarked, that considering the charge of the noble lord, that he had brought forward his accusations upon illicit information, it was singular that the noble lord had not only not ventured to give one of them a contradiction, but that they had all turned out to be true and authentic evidences. The noble lord had said that he had not deemed it a part of his duty to go about the continent like a missionary, preaching the English constitution. He was glad that the noble lord had not undertaken the task, for assuredly it would have been most inadequately executed, if his speeches there would have been like those in parliament, which, like that just delivered, was a libel upon the excellency of our constitution: one of those libels was the had effect of discussions like the present in parliament; but Mr. W. said, he was disposed to apply a very different epithet to them, and to assert, that even with regard to the Congress the effect had been most beneficial. To what a state of degradation would the noble lord reduce the House of Commons, a part of our excellent constitution, when he would make it
 305]
 Mr. Whitbread  rose, in pursuance of his notice, and said:—The noble lord in the blue ribbon (lord Castlereagh), who is more particularly the object of universal attention, has, during the fifteen months which have last passed, run a great and brilliant career. He was selected by his Majesty's government as the person most fit to conduct the affairs of this country abroad—to contend, if to contend was necessary, for its interests; and being thus selected by his political friends, no one of his political opponents was found to cavil at that choice. But there was no one of his high situations which I should have so much envied him, as that, when as a commoner, he returned from his last great mission, to the Commons of the United Kingdom, to lay before us the proceedings of the Congress at which he assisted, to explain doubts, to disperse those calumnies which he complains have been cast upon himself as the representative of Great Britain, and the continental Powers our allies; and thus deserve and receive again the undivided approbation with which he was once before hailed in this House. But it must occur to every one, that after the noble lord had accepted a second time the great task of settling the relations of this country with foreign powers, he ought not to have returned leaving that task unperformed: if it was necessary that the noble lord should go to the Congress at Vienna, he should not have returned without having finished the great work, without being able to explain it to the satisfaction of the country and
 [266 267] singulatim et literatim, [268 269] [270 271] [272 "Discite justitiam moniti, etnon temnere divos." 273] [274 275] [276 tournures de langage, 277] [278 279] [280 281] [282
 Mr. Wilberforce  expressed his satisfaction at what had been done respecting the Slave Trade.
 Lord Castlereagh.  —From the nature of the arrest, and the circumstances attending it, I do not think, Sir, that the House is called upon to interfere. I am not aware, as the House was not actually sitting, with the mace on the table, and the Speaker in the chair, when the arrest took place, that any breach of privilege has been committed. But, if any gentleman entertains a doubt on the subject—if any gentleman conceives the privileges of the House to have been violated—then it is proper that a due degree of jealousy should be manifested, and that an inquiry into the circumstances should be instituted. It is not, however, incumbent on me to propose that inquiry; for, as far as I can judge, our privileges cannot be affected by any occurrence which may take place in the chamber appropriated to the sittings of the Commons of the realm, when they are not regularly assembled there. On one point, I think there can be no difference of opinion. It must be quite obvious to every man, that the marshal has not acted wilfully in violation of the privileges of the House.—(Hear!)—No blame can attach to him, since he has submitted himself to the judgment of the House of Commons, after having done that which he considered his duty as a civil officer. Having had lord Cochrane in his custody, from which he had escaped, the marshal was bound not to pass over any justifiable means of putting him under arrest, whenever a fair opportunity occurred. As far as the individual officer is concerned, it is quite clear that he acted from a sense of duty; and that it is only necessary for him to know what the privileges of Parliament are, to act in conformity with them, on any future occasion.
 Mr. Wynn. —Sir, it certainly appears to
 311] [312
 Lord Castlereagh  —I stated, when I before addressed the House, that if a doubt arose in the mind of any gentleman, it would be competent for him to submit a motion on the subject. As a doubt has been expressed, and very properly expressed, think it right that some proceeding should be adopted. Indeed, even if less doubt were expressed, the jealousy with which any thing like an infraction of our privileges ought to be viewed, would render some proceeding necessary. I, therefore move, "That the said letter, and the subject matter referred to therein, be referred to the Committee of Privileges to examine the matter thereof; and that they do report the same, with their opinion thereupon, to the House."
 Mr. Bennet  rose and said—Sir, I am just come from examining, as one of the committee appointed for that purpose, the state of the King's-bench prison. I found lord Cochrane confined there, in a strong room, fourteen feet square, without windows, fire-place, table, or bed. I do not think it can be necessary, for the purposes of security, to confine him in this manner.
 [314
 Mr. Wilbraham Booth  —When lord Cochrane was visited, not more than half an hour had elapsed from the time of his arrest, and perhaps the Marshal had not had time, to select that situation in the prison which would be sufficiently secure, and at the same time proper for his lordship's accommodation. I trust and hope, it is not the intention of the Marshal to keep the noble lord in the place so justly described by the hon. gentleman. I particularly rise to suggest, whether it would not answer every purpose, and save considerable trouble, if the Marshal were called in, and asked, whether the sentence of the noble lord had expired, or whether he had received his Majesty's pardon? This, I conceive, would clear the way for any subsequent proceeding.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that as there was a question behind, of the principle whether a member arrested in the House had any ground to plead privilege of Parliament, he should recommend a reference of the question to a committee.
 The Speaker  —We have before us the record of conviction, and the sentence of imprisonment for 12 months. Whether this has been done away, in any other manner, than by suffering the penalty, admits of proof. The Marshal has, however, told us, that the noble lord escaped from his custody. It remains for the party complaining of breach of privilege to disprove the assertion.
 The Speaker  —I confess I feel this matter to be very new to us all. In the short time which has elapsed since it occurred, I have given it alt the attention I could, and on particular parts of the case I have very little doubts. I think the Marshal, under the circumstances which occasioned him to act, is not likely to fall under the displeasure of this House. I am also of opinion, that the individual who came into this building, at an hour when the House was not sitting, could claim no special protection from the place in which he was. But I think it also appears equally clear, that he was legally returned to Parliament, and that he came down, in order to go through the necessary forms, and to take his seat. Whatever may be the grounds of inquiry, we ought to refer the matter to a Committee of Privileges, to see whether or not any foundation exists for a complaint of breach of privilege. This will be found the safer course; and if it be thought necessary, we are at liberty to adopt it.
 Mr. Speaker  acquainted the House, that he had just received a letter from William Jones, esq. marshal of the King's-bench prison; and the said Letter was thereupon, by direction of the House, read by Mr. Speaker, and is as followeth:
 The Speaker.  —Under these circumstances, any honourable member may suggest to the House the course of proceeding which he conceives ought to be adopted.
 Mr. Tierney  —Sir, I perfectly agree in the sentiments of the noble lord, with respect to the conduct of the Marshal of the King's-bench prison, on this occasion. He certainly has shewn no disposition to commit any offence against the privileges of the House, and he has taken the earliest opportunity to state what he has done. But, Sir, I do not agree with the noble lord in thinking, that this case presents no circumstances that deserve to be farther looked into. We are told, that lord Cochrane has broken prison. As a private individual I may know this; but, as a member of Parliament, I am ignorant of it. I know that lord Cochrane was convicted, because the record of that conviction was laid before us; but I do not know whether he did not afterwards receive a full pardon. I consider this to be the case of a member regularly elected to serve in Parliament, and coming down to take his seat. Now Sir, the House is regularly adjourned until ten o'clock in the morning—and I recollect occasions when the Speaker did take the chair at that hour. Suppose, then, a member, about to take his scat, came down here at an early hour, with the proper documents in his band, and desired to be instructed in the mode of proceeding—and, while waiting, an officer entered, arrested him, and took his person away, would not this be a case to call for the interference of the House? I know the individual who has arrested lord Cochrane has not manifested any wish to conceal the circumstance. But it might be the other way. Some persons might desire, from sinister motives, to arrest a member of this House under these circumstances. I do not think, therefore, that the case is quite such a matter of course as the noble lord has stated. Unless, Sir, I had your authority, which would weigh much with me, that the case was not such as called for investigation, I should wish that the House would institute some proceeding on the
 313]
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that if any delusion prevailed with respect to the financial situation of the country, that delusion was not imputable to him. He, on the contrary, had always stated to Parliament the circumstances in which Ireland was placed, and had not concealed from Ireland the sacrifices that she would be called upon to make. He had desired to make no partial statement; but he apprehended that the course which, with the approbation of the House, his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer for England, had proceeded on in this country, was equally open to him to follow; nay, he took blame to himself that he had not followed it before. Were not the votes of supply, were not the military and naval votes granted for the joint service of the United Kingdom? Was not the admitted deficiency of the Irish revenue, was not the statement of the right hon. baronet himself, a sufficient justification of the proceedings? It was idle to deny it. What now was he blamed for? He would anticipate, if he were permitted, the sitting of the committee for a moment or two, and would mention the nature of his resolution. He had some time since mentioned to the right hon. baronet, that he had new duties of customs in contemplation; that which he was about to pro-
 [316
 Sir H. Montgomery  said, that he had, heard something of this case; and if the petitioner did not deserve transportation for bigamy, he did for swindling; for he had, on a former occasion, been married in Ireland, by a respectable dissenting minister, Mr. Black, to a young girl who had a fortune of 500 l.
 Dr. Duigenan  said, that the marriage of a minor in Ireland could not be set aside, according to the laws of that country (which he presumed was proved by Dr. Black upon the petitioner's trial), unless a suit for that purpose was commenced within twelve months after such marriage had been celebrated. But this was not stated to have been the case with respect to the petitioner.
 Lord Castlereagh  thought the bright hon. baronet had given to this subject a degree of importance which by no means belonged to it. If ministers were not allowed to male regulations of that nature upon the subject, he did not know what other arrangements they would be allowed to make. It was an arrangement that was, upon the whole, beneficial to the aliens themselves. The wish of Government was, that every alien should present a  primâ facie, primâ facie 327] primâ facie
 The Solicitor General  contended, that the authority of sir William-Blackstone had been properly quoted; for though Puffendorf, to whom he had referred had written on the general law of nations, sir William had applied his reasonings to the positive law of this country. There was no doubt but the Crown enjoyed the power of deciding whether aliens should be here or no. The letter did not act as a prevention to the setting out of foreigners for this country, but as a salutary caution; for should they apply in vain to our consuls for passports, they were still at liberty to proceed to this country, with this disadvantage only, that they would be subjected, on their arrival here, to these in-
 [328
 Mr. Bennet  supported the motion, and alluded to the case of a distinguished member of the Cortes, now residing in honourable poverty in this country, for whom sir James Duff sent a search warrant on board the merchant ships in the port of Cadiz, which, however, he happily escaped. British cousuls should not thus be permitted to disgrace both themselves and their country.
 Mr. Wynn  rested his objection to foreign consuls being vested with the power of refusing passports, mainly on the ground that they did not resemble responsible ambassadors; but as many of them carried on trade on their own account, and might have mercantile, prejudices and jealousies to gratify, they might abuse their power to forward their own speculations.
 Mr. Ponsonby  wished to know, from the noble lord opposite; who, he understood, intended to more, to-morrow, that the House should adjourn till Monday se'nnight, whether the papers relative to the Congress at Vienna, which he intimated his intention of laying before the House, would be ready for the use of members before the recess; and whether it was his intention to lay before the House the instructions given to lard William Bentinck?
 Lord Castlereagh  said; he had learned, on inquiry, that the papers would not be ready so soon: they should, however, be laid on the table as early as possible. With respect to the instructions given to lord W. Bentinck, they would be produced and, if the information thus afforded, was not sufficient, gentlemen were at liberty to call for any other documents they pleased.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, it was then impossible that he could fix a precise day for a motion which he intended to bring forward respecting those papers. He should, therefore, give notice generally, that after the recess he should bring forward a motion on that subject.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the present was a specimen of the extent to which the hon. member's system of questions was carried. He (lord C.) had recently declared that the proceedings of the Congress had not yet terminated, and the state
 331]
 Lord Castlereagh said, if the hon. member wished to know whether it had emanated from the Congress at Vienna—at certainly had not.
 Lord Castlereagh  argued, that it was most advantageous for the public service that the honours objected to by the hon. baronet, should be conferred on our military and naval officers; the events of the late war created, he said, an absolute necessity that some distinguishing marks of approbation should be appropriated to them. All the inconveniences the hon. baronet had stated, as arising, with respect to precedence, from the new modification, would have been equally felt if the expedient of creating our meritorious officers, either knights or baronets, had been resorted to—while the honour would not be distinctly military as it now was. It was wished, that the persons who performed great military services for the country, should be distinctly pointed out to their fellow-citizens; and no mode appeared so proper for that purpose, as that which had been pursued. The idea was by no means new. It was an object to which Mr. Pitt's mind had been earnestly, directed; and towards the close of his life, a very extensive, arrangement was contemplated, to hold out to the country those officers who had signalized them-
 333]
 Mr. Gordon  contended, that in time of peace it was the duty of the Legislature of this country to repress rather than to encourage any attempt to give too great a military character to this country. They had at present an instance in a neighbouring country of a military despotism trampling on the wishes of the people of that country. He complained of the attempt to separate the citizen from the soldier; and objected to the measure as an imitation of foreign manners, of foreign frippery and frivolity. It was only such a constitution of mind as had contrived the late exhibitions in the Parks, that could imagine his piece of frivolity.
 Mr. Ponsonby  wished to know how this modification of the old Order of the Bath had been created. Was it in virtue of a notification in the Gazette? In looking at the history of the country, he could see that no change had been effected in that Order, except through the instrumentality of the Great Seal. Then he wished to ascertain in what manner the pleasure of the Crown had in the present instance been executed. Was the duke of Wellington's opinion, he would ask, taken in the selection of the officers for this distinction?—Were navy authorities consulted for their  quota?
 Mr. Wynn  said, that this country was differently circumstanced from those foreign states, where military orders had been found beneficial. Wherever a nation was a military nation, there ought to be military orders; but England was not a military nation. In Russia, maids of honour ranked as major-generals, and the chancellor himself was a field-marshal. Buonaparté had been alluded to, as ren-
 [334
 Mr. Bragge Bathurst  said, that there should have been some better ground shown for objecting to the measure than the circumstance that foreign nations had Orders of a like nature. The order was a reward for past services, and a stimulus to future. Buonaparté had created a vast military power in a great measure by means of orders of a like nature. Would it not be necessary to meet and counteract him by means similar to his own?
 Mr. W. Bathurst  defended the extension of the Order as the only fit mode of honouring men who must otherwise have been unrewarded, and whose only object in life, and consolation in death, was honour. It was this which had made the late ruler of France so popular with his army. If other nations had found out that soldiers were pleased with these honours, why should we refuse to avail ourselves of such a mode of rewarding an army merely on that account? He should certainly oppose the motion.
 Mr. Bathurst  seconded the suggestion of his right hon. relative (Mr. Addington), adding, that should the learned gentleman withdraw the petition, he might of course present it again, if the decision of the executive government should not be agreeable to his judgment.
 Mr. Goulburn  said; the hon. gentleman had made a charge, founded on information he had received; the truth of that information was denied; and, he conceived, the denial on the one side would be considered as fully equivalent to the assertion in the other. If it were necessary for the House to examine all the cases of aliens who had been sent out of the country, then certainly this instance ought to be investigated along with the rest; but he saw nothing in the case now brought before them which called for any marked distinction. He certainly would not go into the particulars of the transaction; but he would state, that, though Correia had written, a libel against the Portuguese
 [330
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that it was not the fact that the army had been honoured more than, the navy; the distribution to
 335]
 Mr. Addington . —It is evident that the Secretary of Stale acted on the presumption, that something improper had been done by Correia; and, in such a case, I am sure the House will not consent to inferfere.
 Mr. Addington  thought that the right hon. baronet was under considerable misapprehensions. The letter of which he complained was a mere measure of vigilant precaution in the Secretary of the Home Department, to whom the execution of the Alien Act was entrusted. It would be for the House to decide, whether, in the exercise of his powers, there was any thing criminal in this transaction. On a former occasion, he had detailed the motives which induced the department to which he belonged to circulate that order; and he would now repeat, that it was issued in consequence of the constant complaints of the number of aliens—little less than twenty thousand—who were in this country, and of the necessity of preventing the admission of those whose characters were liable to suspicion. Various instances have occurred of aliens having arrived at the outports, who were suspected of ill designs, but who were afterwards' permitted to proceed, because sufficient grounds of their intentions had not been adduced: The principal object therefore was, to remove those impediments from aliens in general, and to permit them to land and proceed. The persons who were entrusted with the power of granting passports, were those who must be best acquainted, with the character and motives of the persons applying for them: but the fact was, that this power was not delegated, as the right hon. baronet had conceived; under the Alien Act, but by virtue of the acknowledged prerogative of the Crown, to refuge admission to aliens of any description. Such prerogative existed before the Alien Act was passed; and, therefore, this letter left aliens to a certain degree where it found them; it did not oblige aliens to apply for passports, and persons who knew that no suspicion attached to their conduct could come to this country without them. Since this regulation was adopted, not one single instance had occurred of ah individual coming without a passport, who was refused admission. He wished to draw the attention of the House to the general expressions of the letter; and he would ask any gentleman, whether, under the circumstances in which it was written, it could apply to any aliens but those who were strongly inspected of hostile inten-
 [324
 Mr. Addington  said, that when the hon. gentleman first mentioned this subject in the House, it was the general impression that it was his object to bring a charge against the present Secretary for the Home Department, and he was convinced the hon. gentleman himself had supposed that it was a recent case. Upon investigation, however, it appeared that it was a case which had occurred five years ago, when Mr. Ryder was at the head of the Home department. He should certainly vote against the granting the papers which the hon. member gave notice that the would move for. He would never vote for the production of papers, unless the mover made out, at least, a  primâ facie
 Mr. Addington  contended, that the hon. member had not made out any  primâ facie
 Mr. Addington . —They were sufficient to authorize the Secretary of State to act as he had done.
 Mr. Addington  hoped the learned gentleman would withdraw the petition, as the case of the petitioner was at present under consideration.
 Mr. Lockhart  recommended the consideration of the petitioner's case.
 Mr. Whitbread . —What were the grounds?
 Mr. Whitbread  then called the attention of the House to the case of a Portuguese gentleman, named Correia, who, some years since, was sent out of this country, under the Alien Act. He observed, that, in addition to what he had before stalled, he had been positively informed, that no native of Portugal was suffered to remain in this country, except he was furnished with a licence from the Portuguese resident at this Court, and that the person in question, having offended the Portuguese resident, was refused the necessary protection; This circumstance, he conceived, ought to be fully explained. When the right hon. gentleman, on a former occasion, moved for a renewal of the Alien Act, be (Mr. Whitbread) and several of his friends demanded information on one or two transactions that had taken place under this law; and they were answered, that they might as well call for explanation with respect to all the cases of aliens sent out of the country, as confine themselves to those particular instances. He thought it would have been a very desirable thing, if they could have procured such extensive information, for he had no doubt that many abuses of the Act had taken place. The hon. gentleman concluded by moving, "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will
 329]
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the great
 325] [326
 Mr. Whitbread  wished to understand whether or no the declaration, was authentic?
 Mr. Whitbread  said, a declaration had been published, in the newspapers of that day, purporting to be a Declaration of the Congress, by which the proceedings of that body were stated to have terminated. He wished to know whether that paper was authentic, and whether the ministers and sovereigns assembled were now proceeding to their respective homes to govern under the principles there determined on.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that these new honours had dissatisfied every body and pleased nobody; they had disgusted those who before belonged to the Order of the Bath, and those who had since entered were ashamed to shew their honours. The measure had revived the jealousy between the two services. Government had been more than just to the army, and done less than justice to the navy. He participated in the feeling of jealousy at the attempt to make this a military country. Was the duke of Wellington bred at a military college? or lord Lynedoch, or sir John Moore? There was not one who had received medals who would not rather continue to wear them, than be adorned with this distinction, which had been diluted almost to nothing. Before the French Revolution, the Cross of St. Louis, being at every button-hole, was not worth 2 s. d.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole , in reply to the question of Mr. Ponsonby, as to the manner in which the measure had been produced, said, that the order had been regulated as usual, by patent, and therefore there had been no unjust exercise of the prerogative. The military officers had been selected from those whom lord Wellington had recommended for medals. The only regular way, on the part of the hon. gentleman opposite, would be, not to insinuate that anything improper had been done; but to charge and make a motion. He justified the extent of the Order, on the round that it was found, even in Mr. Pitt's time, that the rewards were not equal to the gratification of deserving claimants.
 Sir Charles Monck,  in rising to submit to the House his promised motion relative to the late extension of the Order of the Bath, regretted that a subject of so serious and important a nature, had not been taken up by some more learned and experienced member than himself. Fully impressed, however, with the necessity of calling the attention of the House to the late modification of the Order of the Bath, he had determined, as no other gentleman seemed inclined to notice it, rather to bring it forward himself, under every risk, than to run the chance of its not being at all submitted to their consideration. In the first place, he wished to guard against any misapprehension to which his observations, either with reference to the prerogatives of the Crown, or to the rewards that ought to be conferred on military and naval officers, might give rise. For the prerogatives of the Crown he entertained the highest veneration; and no man was less disposed than he was, to envy those generous persons who had so gallantly fought the battles of their country, the rewards which were so justly bestowed on them. The hon. baronet then entered into a history of the Order of the Bath, from its origin, in the reign of Henry the 4th, down to the time of George 1, when it was restored, and made a completely military order—a measure of which he expressed his disapprobation. At that period, as appeared from 'Clarke's History of Knighthood,' the knights companions were only thirty-six, though they had been afterwards greatly increased. The House, he conceived, ought to look with great jealousy at the recent extension, which only opened the way for a still greater enlargement. By the Charter of the Order each knight was bound to maintain a certain number of efficient men; and, by this means, a power was placed in the hands of the Crown to raise an
 [332 quota.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  contended, that the extract from Blackstone, which had been read by the right hon. gentleman, did not at all apply to the present question. When Puffendorf stated the right of every state, he only meant the inherent right of every nation to take measures for its own preservation. Puffendorf could not have had in his contemplation, how the prerogative of the Crown in England was restrained in its exercise by Parliament. Certainly there was a power in this country as well as in every other, to exclude such strangers as were conceived to be dangerous. The exercise of the prerogative of the Crown was here restrained in this instance, as in many others, by acts of parliament. Adverting to former periods, he inquired what would have been thought, had the unfortunate beings who fled from the tyranny of Robespierre, been refused an asylum, and been sent back to the scaffold? In proportion to the severity of a law, should be the lenity with which it was understood and put in force. And more particularly should a suspension of a law, founded on one of the most important clauses of Magna Charta, be guarded from a loose and undefined construction. The whole body of consuls and vice consuls amounted to about 23 in number. It was not fitting that they should be entrusted with the power that had been vested in them. Five or six of them were natives of the countries in which they acted; and it was highly improper that they should be empowered to shut the doors of British humanity and hospitality on all those who requested admission.
 Sir Samuel Romilly , after animadverting upon the extraordinary doctrine of the hon. baronet, that because a man had been guilty of a certain offence, he ought to be punished for that of which he had not been guilty; and also upon the opinion of the learned judge (Dr. Duigenan), that the House should decide upon what he "presumed" a certain witness to have deposed upon the trial of the petitioner; consented to withdraw the petition, upon the understanding that the right hon. gentleman would let him know when the proper department should have decided upon the appeal of the petitioner, who was induced to request the presentation of this petition to the House, apprehending that from the delay of any answer to his application to the Secretary of State, he
 319]
 Sir Samuel Romilly  thought, that as abuse had been imputed, there was a distinction between this and the other cases under the Alien Act. The powers given by the Act were so extensive, that they required some interference of the House. In the case of De Berenger papers had been seized, for which there was no authority either in the Alien Act, or the common law.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  rose to lay upon the table the Petition from Mr. Lathrop Murray, of which he had given notice yesterday. Of the individual he knew nothing, and in general he was averse to the interference of the House with the proceedings of courts of justice; but in some cases of peculiar circumstances, such an interference might be necessary and useful. The individual who this day came before the House, had been recently convicted of bigamy before the Recorder of the city of London. Sir S. Romilly said he had had an opportunity of seeing the whole of the case and the evidence, and it appeared that the allegations in the petition upon that authority, were well founded. The fact was, that at the age of eighteen, the petitioner, being with his regiment in Ireland, was married to a woman much older than himself, in a private room, by a dissenting minister (he not being himself a dissenter), without banns, licence, or any of the usual formalities. Some years ago he married a woman in England by licence, and his second wife was fully apprised of the facts attending his first marriage, which was properly held to be invalid. For this offence he was indicted by a total stranger, and the only evidence was, that of the dissenting minister who had officiated at the first marriage; and to prove the second, the register and the declarations of the petitioner. At the trial his counsel had taken several objections, which they urged should be reserved for the decision of the Judges, but by some mistake the points were not reserved and sentence of transportation was passed upon the prisoner. Until 1795, sir S. Romilly observed the punishment for bigamy had been only twelve months imprisonment, and burning in the hand; but at that date a statute was passed, empowering the Judges to transport for seven years: but this severity was only exercised in cases of great flagrancy; and in the present it seemed natural to expect that an imprisonment for six, nine, or twelve months, would have been ordered. The Attorney General refusing to give his  fiat [318
 Sir John Newport  opposed the Speaker's leaving the chair. He said, he had a radical objection to this mode of laying on taxes by piece-meal, without the intervention of a proper time for considering the general state in which they stood. The right hon. gentleman might be right in proposing the line of taxation for which he was about to move, but it was to the principle of the proceeding that he had so decided an objection. The House was in
 315]
 Sir John Newport  rose, pursuant to his notice, to call the attention of the House to a letter from the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, to the Colonial Department, respecting the admission of aliens into this country. In all periods of our history, the Legislature had taken care to keep open the ports and harbours of-Great Britain, for distressed strangers; and it was the glory of this country, that when protection could not be afforded to them, by other nations, they were sure of finding an asylum here. At an early period of the French revolution, precautionary measures were adopted; and though it was not incumbent on him to discuss the propriety of that law, yet it was material to observe, that the Legislature had placed strict guards over those who were entrusted with the exercise of its powers. This was enough to shew the jealousy of Parliament on the subject. With the first French war the first Alien Act expired; it was revived soon after the commencement of the second French war, and nearly in the same form and manner, and with the same powers and restrictions, as the former Act. What, then, was the surprise of himself and of several other members, when they found, on the discussion of the conduct of sir s James Duff, that the following letters were laid before, the House? The first was a copy of a dispatch from lord Bathurst to sir James Duff, dated November 29, 1814, to this effect:—"Sir; It having been represented to his Majesty's government, that you have directed the masters of all British vessels touching at Cadiz, not to depart from that port with any Spanish subjects on board, unless such Spanish subjects should be provided with your passport, or with one from the government of Spain, I am to request that you will acquaint me how far this is founded on fact," &c. In answer, sir James Duff wrote as follows: "I beg leave to represent to your lordship, that in virtue of the orders of his Majesty's government, it has been the practice at this port, since June 1813, to allow no aliens to go passengers in British merchant vessels or packets, to any of his Majesty's dominions, unless provided with proper passports "Sanctioned by his Majesty's
 [320 sub silentio, * 321] * * [322 1. "That it appears to this House, from documents laid before it, that instructions were issued, on the 6th of May, 1813, from the office of the Secretary of State for Foreign affairs, of the recommendation of the Secretary of State for the Home department, to all his Majesty's ministers and consuls in foreign countries, to require that such aliens as might propose to embark for any part of the British dominions should apply to be furnished with passports for that purpose; and that in all cases when either the character of the person applying for such, passports, or the object which he had in, view, may be deemed objectionable, it would be expedient to refuse it: 2. "That no communication whatever was made to Parliament of such instructions having been issued until the 14th of February, 1815, a period of nearly two years, and then only in consequence of an inquiry into the conduct of sir James Duff, consul-general at Cadiz, on a subject incidentally connected therewith, although a Bill for renewal of the Alien Act, under certain modifications (in aid of which Act such instructions were avowedly issued), was submitted to the consideration of both Houses of Parliament, and passed, into a law in the month of July, 1814; neither was any notice taken in the said Act of any passports having been required to be procured by such aliens as might arrive in the United Kingdom conformably to such instructions: 3."That the extraordinary powers intrusted by the Alien Act to the principal Secretaries of State in Great Britain, or the Lord Lieutenant or his Chief Secretary in Ireland, to be exercised under the immediate view and control of Parliament, could be only warranted by the exigency of the case, and ought not in any degree, or under any circumstances, to have been delegated by those great officers of state to any other persons, without the knowlege and authority of Parliament; still less should they have enabled all the consuls residing in foreign countries to prohibit, at their discretion, the embarkation of aliens for the United Kingdom; a power
 323]
 Sir J. Newport  made a short reply, in which he contended that the delegation ought not to have taken place without the consent of Parliament.
 Sir J. Newport . —Does the right hon. gentleman mean to say, that because the Secretary of State thought there were sufficient grounds to justify this proceeding, there was, therefore, no necessity for the House being acquainted with them?
 MR. Rose  made the following Report from the Committee of Privileges:
 "The Committee of Privileges, to whom the Letter of William Jones, esquire, Marshal of the Kings-bench prison, staling, 'that he had taken lord Cochrane (who had made his escape from out of the King's bench prison) into custody, in the House of Commons,' was referred; and who were to examine the matter thereof, and to report the same, together with their opinion thereupon;—
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  apprphended that, if the House should continue to bit for a short time, his noble friend the Secretary, of State for Foreign Affairs might be expected; but lest he should not appear in his place, before the House adjourned, he thought it proper, to state, in order to prevent any misapprehensions, that it was intended very shortly to make a communication to that House, from the Prince Regent, of the steps, which ministers, were taking, and meant to take, at the present crisis, together with a statement of the motives which had determined their conduct.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  maintained that the paper alluded to, did not in any point authorize such an interpretation
 339]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that ministers had in no degree departed, nor were desirous of departing, from the principles of Mr. Perceval, or the sentiments of lord Wellesley, on the occasion alluded to by the hon. member; but the names annexed to this paper, if it were authentic, afforded an ample pledge that nothing inconsistent with what was loyal, honourable, and proper, could have been intended by it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered, that he would not be understood to say that that paper was disavowed by his Majesty's Government.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his opinion, that this paper contained nothing to sanction the doctrine of assassination, and this was all he thought proper to say upon the subject at present.
 Mr. Whitbread  again asked, whether it was intended to lay this paper before the House, with the promised communication, and also the authority upon which it was signed by our minister?
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the right hon. gentleman appeared, in the course of what he had said, to cast some doubt upon the authenticity of this infamous paper. The right hon. gentleman had urged that the names annexed to this paper, afforded a pledge that nothing inconsistent with what was loyal, honourable, and proper, could have been intended: that was not enough: did the right hon. gentleman mean to contend that the paper itself contained nothing, inconsistent with loyalty, honour, and propriety? because, if so, he was at issue with him on that point. He wished to know whether the paper alluded to, was meant to form a part of the promised communication, and also whether the persons whose names were attached to this paper, had any authority to sign such a document?
 Mr. Whitbread  asked then, whether the right hon. gentleman meant to express a doubt of the authenticity of this paper; for there seemed something consolatory in his parenthesis, "if it were authentic." Here the hon. gentleman adverted to some muttering on the ministerial benches, observing that the right hon. gentleman
 [340
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that in a publication of yesterday, in which the doctrine of assassination was unblushingly avowed, [Goldsmith's Anti-Gallican Monitor,] this paper was quoted as a direct justification of that doctrine; and referring to the promulgation of the same doctrine from the same quarter, at a former period, in which the assassination of the person now possessing the government of France was openly recommended, the hon. gentleman stated, that a noble relative of his (earl Grey) had in another place strongly protested against that doctrine, being seconded in his reprobation of it by the marquis Wellesley, who was then a member of the Cabinet. It would also be recollected that he (Mr. W.) had, in that House, entered his protest against this abominable doctrine; and Mr. Perceval, who was himself, within twelve months afterwards, the victim of assassination, strongly disclaimed (if, indeed, a disclaimer were necessary) any concurrence in such doctrine on the part of his Majesty's Government. Nevertheless, this paper had the tendency and the effect of unsheathing the dagger of the assassin. Of this effect, indeed, there could be no doubt, as had been argued by the writer alluded to, who had even had the hardihood to name the persons who were fit to do the work, calling in to the aid of his recommendation this reported Declaration from Congress, which, if words were to be interpreted according to their natural import, did unquestionably hold out a defence for assassination. Were ministers, then, prepared to abide by and justify such an extraordinary document?
 Mr. Whitbread  disclaimed any wish to hurry ministers, or to exact, from them any premature communication, but he could not forbear to express, his confident hope, that a certain declaration, purporting to emanate from the Congress at Vienna, was an infamous forgery, inasmuch as it went to sanction the doctrine of assassination. He trusted, therefore, for the honour and character, of this country, that some of the names annexed to that paper were never authorized to sign any such document. While the noble Secretary, for Foreign Affairs was at the Congress, he was understood to combine in himself all the powers of the executive government; but it was quite impossible to suppose that such powers, were extended to lords Wellington, Clancarty, Cathcart, and Stewart, that they were authorized to put their names to such an infamous paper, or that they were invested with a power to declare war against any state.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he should be glad to know whether any other minister was expected in the House in the course of the evening, and whether the Secretary for Foreign Affairs was, likely to attend? An expectation very, naturally prevailed that some communication would be made to the House respecting, certain extraordinary events, and the prospects, as far as ministers could ascertain, likely to arise
 [338
 Mr. Rose  said, that the Act of 1797, to which the hon. gentleman had referred, was not adopted without due inquiry; and that as to the effect of that Act, it was found that the price of bread would have been higher if settled by the average price of wheat, than if settled by that of flour. It was undoubtedly true, that the quartern loaf was usually cheaper in the country than in London, sometimes, indeed, three-pence cheaper, and this circumstance called for inquiry.
 MR. Fremantle  asked, whether any and what measures had been taken to prevent the escape of Buonaparté from the island of Elba?
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that cruizers had been with that view stationed off the island of Elba.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that he understood our naval officers in the Mediterranean stated, that if they even saw Buonaparté at sea, they had no authority to interfere with or interrupt his progress: he, therefore, wished to know whether that statement was correct?
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he did not mean to argue the question.
 Mr. Wynn  added, that he did not ask the noble lord to argue, but to answer his question.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the appointment of a committee, to consider the existing laws with regard to the regulation of the Assize of Bread, and also whether it is expedient or not to have any
 341] s d s d [342
 Lord Castlereagh  declined to say any thing farther upon this subject at present, as there would be ample opportunity of discussing it—and from that discussion he would not be found to shrink.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that upon examining the papers laid on the table, he did pot find any copy of that signed by the noble lord, with regard to the stipulations upon Buonaparté's abdication, and he wished to know whether the noble lord had any objection to have this paper laid before the House, as it was desirable to have it officially?
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he had no objection whatever to the production of the paper alluded to, and therefore the hon. gentleman might move for it.
 Mr. Wynn  soon afterwards moved for a copy of the Treaty concluded at Paris, on the 11th of April, 1814, between the Allied Powers and the emperor Napoleon, together with the accession of the British Government thereto.—Ordered accordingly.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it was his intention in a day or two to move for the appointment of a committee, upon the subject alluded to, but he could not admit the propriety of deviating from the usual practice on such occasions.
 Mr. Fremantle  repeated the question which he had put yesterday, whether any and what instructions had been given to our officers in the Mediterranean, to prevent the departure of Buonaparté from the island of Elba?
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that no other instructions had been given than to make such a distribution of our force as might serve to confine Napoleon at Elba. There was certainly an understanding with our officer stationed at Elba, that Napoleon was to be confined within certain limits, and that he should not be allowed to exceed those limits.
 Mr. Fremantle  asked, whether there had been any instructions sent to our naval officers upon this subject, and whether the noble lord had any objection to produce a copy of those instructions?
 Lord Castlereagh  said, there was no positive instruction, but an understanding.
 Mr. Tierney  inquired, whether it was to be understood, that no precautionary measures had been issued to our officers to prevent Buonaparté from going to any part of the world he thought proper?
 Mr. Tierney  then gave notice of his intention to move on Friday se'nnight, to refer the Civil List accounts to a committee, and to invest such committee with a power to send for persons, papers, and records, with a view to ascertain how the enormous expenses and debts, which these accounts stated, had been accumulated.
 Mr. Tierney  asked, whether it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to move for a committee to
 [344
 Lord Castlereagh  presented the following Message from his royal highness the Prince Regent:
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that as to the first observation of the hon. gentleman, he did not present his Royal Highness's Message till half past four o'clock, which, from his previous intimation, he could not deem as too early an hour for the introduction of such a subject. Then, as to the day fixed for the consideration of the Message, he was rather surprised at the hon. gentleman's observation, because it would be recollected that, on a former day, he distinctly stated his purpose of proposing such an arrangement in describing the coarse of business for the week, and with a view to this arrangement he moved the postponement of the American question from this day to Tuesday, in order, as the Message was meant to be considered on Friday, that the House might not be occupied by debate on two successive days. But, independently of this consideration, it would be quite inconsistent with the usual practice of Parliament to postpone the consideration of a Message from the Throne: an early consideration was, indeed, due in deference to the Throne, and was there-
 351]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that when the House came to the discussion he would give such explanation respecting the propositions at Chatillon as was proper, or as had any connexion with the subject of the Prince Regent's Message. With respect to the presentation of this Message, it was to be considered that the Lords did not meet, until Wednesday, and that some previous intimation was due to that House, as to the intention to make a communication of this nature, which was usually presented to both Houses at the same time. Now as to questions generally, he felt it necessary to observe, that it would be well if gentlemen proposing to put any questions, would either previously apprize ministers of their intention, or else that those gentlemen should wait until the ministers were in their, places.
 Mr. Ponsonby  began by declaring, that he was not at all aware, that the Prince Regent's Message would have been presented so early, or he should have been in his place sooner. But he hoped that the House would, upon the subject of that Message, allow him to trespass on its indulgence for a few moments, although, there was no motion under, consideration. The Message, he observed, was composed of two parts:—first, his Royal Highness told the House that be was preparing to augment our forces by sea and land, in consequence of the recent events in France; and, secondly, his Royal Highness stated, that he would act in concert with our-allies. In thus proceeding, his Royal Highness had, in his opinion, been advised to do that which was wise and proper; for it was wise in his Royal Highness to have the country in a slate of adequate preparation for any emergency, and proper to preserve an intimate communication and concert with his allies. But beyond those two points he did not wish to express any opinion, nor did he think the House ripe at present to give any farther decision. As to the use to, be made of the force which his Royal Highness was preparing, that would remain for consideration; but upon the two points to which he had referred, he however others
 353]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that without anticipating the discussion of to-morrow, he could assure the right hon. gentleman that it was not proposed by the Address in contemplation to pledge his opinion, or that of the House, as to the future conduct of his Majesty's government. With respect to that conduct, or the use that might be made of the force in preparation, and whether the ultimate end should be war or peace, must depend upon the issue of circumstances to be determined on their own merits.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in consequence of a communication which he had had from the Portuguese ambassador, respecting a representation to his Court, calculated to obviate the necessity of this measure, he should press it no farther. Therefore the right hon. gentleman moved the third reading of the Bill this day six months. Agreed to.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the Abolition of the punishment of the Pillory. He did not conceive it necessary, in introducing this motion, to enter into any discussion of the origin of crimes and punishments. The authors who had written upon this subject were already in, the hands of most of the members of that House; it would be sufficient for him, therefore, to make a few general observations upon the legitimate objects of punishments, as the ground upon which his motion was founded. The first end of punishment was the reformation of the offender; and the next was, when the crime committed was of so deep a die as not to admit of a hope of amendment, to punish the criminal by death; and at the same time, by the severity of his punishment, to afford an example to deter others from the commission of similar offences. With this view of the subject, he was at a loss to imagine under what head to class the punishment of pillory. It could not be called a reforming punishment, because it rather tended to deaden the sense of shame than to have any other effect. Besides, it appeared to him as contrary to law, because the culprit was left to meet the fury of the populace. It was not attended with any good to the spectator, because it only gave rise to the assemblage of a tumultuous rabble, who either contravened the sentence of the Court by exalting the criminal, or violated the law by an outrageous attack upon him. It was therefore evidently a punishment of a very unequal nature. As illustrative of this remark, he begged to cite a few cases. In the year 1759, doctor Shebbeare was sentenced to be pillored for a libel of a political description—and in what manner was that punishment executed? Why, when he arrived at the pillory he mounted it in full dress, attended by a servant in livery, who held an umbrella over his head and the under-sheriff, who participated in the popular feeling, instead of calling upon him, as usual, to place his head in the pillory, was satisfied to let him simply rest ins hands on the machine, and in that way he underwent his sentence. Then again, in the case of Daniel Isaac Eaton, who two years back was pillored for a religious libel, this man, instead of being regarded, as might have been expected, with indignation, was treated with, respect, and viewed
 355] Dui Tam [356
 Mr. Whitbread.  What then were we to do, when the noble lord was at Vienna?
 Mr. Whitbread  expressed himself particularly glad to hear that no such secret article or understanding existed, as that to which he referred. But as to the treaty proposed at Chatillon, he thought it material that the House should have some information upon that subject, before it entered into the consideration of the Regent's Message. It was a mistake to suppose that he required the production of all the papers connected with the negotiations at Chatillon. A short extract would be quite sufficient, describing the terms upon which the allies were at that time willing to conclude peace with France; and without such a communication he could not think the House prepared to discuss the subject of the Message. The delay of a single day with a view to obtain and to consider such an important fact, he could not suppose in any degree disrespectful to his Royal. Highness, or inconsistent with the deference which that House owed to a communication from the Throne. The House had, indeed, been led to expect, from the intimation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the Message would have been brought down on Wednesday, and thus one intervening day would have been allowed for its consideration, before the House would be called upon to decide; but the noble lord from his superior knowledge of tactics thought proper to postpone the presentation of the Message until this day, thus precluding the possibility of due consideration. The hon. gentleman disclaimed any intention of disrespect to his Royal Highness in thus pressing for some delay; adding, that although, he had no hope of persuading the House to change the order
 [352
 Mr. Whitbread  rose and observed, that had he been present at the time the Message was presented (which, by the way, was brought forward at a much more early period than public business was usually expected), he should have objected to the motion fixing the consideration of it for to-morrow. Upon a question of such magnitude and importance, more time ought, in his opinion, to be afforded, in order to prepare the House for its consideration, especially where the object of the Message was not clearly expressed,—where, in fact, it was couched in such equivocal, such indefinite terms, that it was difficult to understand the
 [350
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, a Copy of "the Declaration of the Allies, dated March 13, 1815;" and Translation: viz.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following Papers, relative to the person and family of Napoleon Buonaparté.
 Lord Castlereagh , minister of his Britannic Majesty, declared that England could not become a party to the above Treaty; but engaged to notify, as soon as possible, the accession of his Court to so much of that Treaty, as concerns the free possession and the peaceable enjoyment, in full sovereignty, of the Isle of Elba, and of the duchies of Parma, Placentia, and Guastalla, lord Castlereagh promised likewise, to furnish the necessary passports and safe conducts for the voyage. 379] Paris, April th
 Lord Castlereagh , in undertaking on the part of his Government, for an Act of Accession to the Treaty signed this day, so far as the same concerns the possession in sovereignty of the Island of Elba, and also of the Duchies of Parma, Placentia, and Guastalla, requests it may be understood that the Act in question will, in conformity to the accustomed usage of the British Government, be an act binding upon his Britannic Majesty with respect to his own acts, but not with respect to the acts of third parties.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following
 Lord Castlereagh  rose and spoke to the following effect:—In rising to call the attention of the House to the gracious Message of the Prince Regent, now read from the Chair, I assure the House, that, at no period of my political life, and under no circumstances which I can recollect, have I ever felt more deeply or more sincerely, the importance of those considerations which arise from passing events, or which may be produced by the counsels growing out of those events, than I do on the present occasion. It has been my lot, during almost all the discussions which have taken place in this House, in the last and present session, to endeavour to direct the attention of Parliament to those events which were rapidly taking place, and which we might flatter ourselves, without appearing too sanguine, were likely, not only to deliver the world from those dangers which it had ultimately passed through, but to conduct it to a state of permanent pacification; and, although so desirable a state of things might not take place with all the precipitancy which ardent minds might hope for, yet that we should finally be led to that ancient social system, which had long predominated in Europe, and of the enjoyment of which we had been too long deprived. Whatever difference of opinion may have prevailed, between the gentlemen who sit on the other side of the House, and those who are seated on this, with respect to certain details connected with the arrangements made for the security of the peace of Europe—yet this I may say, that a complete coincidence of opinion has existed as to the principle which was acted upon. The details might have been more skilfully managed; but, I am sure, every individual, however he might disapprove of minor parts of the arrangement, must have been gratified at seeing a state
 [418 419] [420 421] [422 423] [424 425] [426 espionage 427] [428 surveillance gens d'armes 429] [430 431] [432 433] [434 435]
 Sir Francis Burdett  felt it his duly to state to the House and to the country the reasons which rendered it impossible for him to concur in the Address just proposed by the noble lord. If he could understand that it went merely to assert the expediency of a preparation on the part of this country, in order that it might not be taken unawares—a preparation called for alone by the apprehensions which arose out of the supposed character, true or false, of the present emperor of France, he would not dissent from it. But if it was intended to plunge the country again into a war, for the purpose of replacing the Bourbons on the throne of France, he should not discharge his duty if he did not raise up his voice against our entering upon such an unjustifiable and ruinous enterprize. It was said that Buonaparté had entered France in contravention of the treaty concluded with him; but if in that treaty there was no mention of his not entering France, he could not see the contravention. He was old enough to remember when the former war for placing the Bourbons on the throne of France was undertaken, and the effect of that war was to give to that man, who was now the object of their apprehension, such power as made him too strong for all Europe, till he dissipated and lost it in the plains of Russia. But there was no ground for any hope that he would lose his power by such means again. The consideration now was, as Buonaparté was on the throne again, whether it was for this nation to wage another twenty years war to reinstate the Bourbons. He was far from wishing to criticise the conduct of the Bourbons, or to be too severe on any one in misfortune:
 [436 437] [438
 Mr. Ponsonby  declared that he should support the Address. If he viewed it in the same light as the hon. baronet, he could by no means concur in it; but so far did it seem to him from being the first step to involve the country in the war, that it did not bind the House down by a single expression on the question of peace or war at all. Those words which spoke of the contravention of the Treaty of Paris were founded, not on the circumstance of Buonaparté having quilted Elba to go to France, but on the consideration that by the Treaty of Paris, terms more favourable were granted to France than had been offered to her when she was under the government of Buonaparté, on the specific ground that she was to return to what was called her legitimate monarchy. When, therefore, Louis the 18th withdrew from Paris, and was no longer governor of France, and when Buonaparté returned to Paris, and again became governor of France; then France, was no longer in the state in which she was when the Treaty of Paris was concluded. It was in that sense, and in no other, that he understood the Treaty to have been contravened. A condition of the Treaty was, that the
 439] [440 441]
 Mr. Abercrombie  took a view of the nature of the Address, and declared that he should have liked to have heard the question more fully discussed than it had been. He would reserve his opinion as to whether this country was justified in going to war; bat with respect to the necessity of precautionary measures, he trusted there could not be a dissentient voice. He could have wished that no amendment had beer proposed; as the tone of ministers was certainly less high than that of the Declaration of the Allied Powers. As the House was not in a situation of offering any advice to the Crown, there was no resource but in leaving the whole subject to the responsibility of ministers. It was impossible for him, however, to vole against the words of his hon. friend's amendment because the noble lord might derive great advantage from the amendment being negatived, and the opinions of all those who did negative it might be subject to a degree of misconstruction.
 Mr. Charles Grant , jun. agreed with the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, that ministers could not support a new war unless they carried the people along with them; but he contended that the Amendment which had been proposed was not necessary to effect this. The speech of his noble friend had been as much distinguished by moderation, as the Message which was the subject of it, and which had met with general approbation. The arguments of those who supported the Amendment on the ground that the speech of the noble lord was in a more warlike tone than the Message of the Prince Regent, were therefore, in his opinion, without foundation. Some members in the course of the debate had fallen on the assumption, that the present revolution in France was a revolution of the people. This, he contended, was a subject for future inquiry. At present there was a struggle in France on the question of peace or war, and the war party seemed to be triumphant. It was for that House to act on a knowledge of the existing danger. Knowing the character of the man now at the head of affairs in France, knowing the description of the persons by whom he was surrounded, knowing what his conduct had been for twenty years, up to the last flagitious act (for so he would call it), which had again brought him before the world, it was absolutely necessary that their measures should be framed accordingly.
 Mr. Robinson , from the opportunities he had had last year of ascertaining the sentiments of the people of France, with respect to Buonaparté, thought he could take upon himself to say that the general feeling was against him. He was looked upon by almost all classes as the author of the misfortunes which had befallen them, and his system seemed to be universally execrated. He did not say that this feel-
 459]
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he should have thought, that on the subject of the proposed Address, there would have been but one opinion in the country—that at a crisis so important the hands of Government ought to be strengthened, and enabled to take such measures, in concert with their Allies, as circumstances should require. To be lulled into security by any good acts which Buonaparté might, perform at such a time, would be to be greatly wanting to ourselves. The Amendment contained no assertion which was not in itself perfectly true and just; but, unseasonably introduced, it would by implication throw a censure on ministers which was not true, and unjust. The Amendment, if adopted, would, by implication accuse the Government of wishing to involve the nation in an unjust and unnecessary war. If the House were to assent to the proposition of the hon. gentleman, they would indirectly
 [460
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had relieved him from the necessity of stating much of what he had it in contemplation to offer on the subject of the Amendment which had been moved to the Address. From what that right hon. gentleman had said, the House would feel that nothing could be more cruel than to bring forward as an amendment certain truisms, which went by implication to impute to ministers a design to commence a war which was not warranted by justice, necessity, and good faith to his Majesty's Allies. He looked upon this, question, as the right hon. gentleman did, as one entitled to the gravest consideration, and as being one of the most important and momentous on which any government had ever been called upon to decide. It was for the Government of this country to consider whether the interests of Europe called upon them, in concert with their Allies, to prefer a state of war or of armed defence. In moving the Address, and stating the two alternatives, he had said nothing with a view to bind the House to one of them more than to the other. If the hon. gentleman who had moved the Amendment, or those gentlemen who had supported it, meant to declare that ministers ought to be bound to one of them, they owed it to the country and themselves not to endeavour to effect their object, by moving a string of truisms to bind down the Government by implication, but to embody their sentiments in a specific resolution. The Government ought not to be crippled in its negociations with friendly Powers, and prejudiced in its transactions with that country most concerned in the result of the present state of things, by restrictions introduced by a side wind; the necessity for which those who brought them forward were not prepared openly to declare.
 461] [462
 Mr. Ponsonby  shortly gave his reasons for not voting for the Amendment. The speech of the noble lord he thought had been much over-stated. He had been represented to have spoken as if he was resolved on immediate war, if he could but persuade the Allies to take part in it. He understood no such statement to have been made. He wished to ask the noble lord if he had said this? [A cry from the Opposition of "the question is not answered."]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that on this subject he had given no opinion.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, he was right, then, in what he had said. The speech of the noble lord had not been fairly described. If it should hereafter appear that Government unnecessarily engaged in war, none of his friends would surpass him in zeal to heap censures on their conduct. The
 463]
 Mr. Frederick Douglas  alluded to the decree of Buonaparté for the abolition of the Slave Trade. From all he had been able to learn, it was a mistaken idea amongst the people of France, that the abolition would be injurious to them if suddenly effected. Thus Louis 18, attending to the feelings of the people, gained time for the termination of a traffick which his rival, on coming to power, had, without any regard for their feelings, abolished at once. Respecting the prospect before us, there was an essential principle in the government of France, which must necessarily be repugnant to the tranquillity of the Continent. The change that had taken place had been effected by the army, and not by the sense of the people. The real voice of the people was to be found in the towns where they were not overawed by the military. It was the natural consequence of any invasion, that in the first moments the people would lie by and not declare their sentiments. He would not contend that the voice of the people had been declared against Buonaparté but, when it was asserted that their voice was in favour of him, he must say that such an assertion was totally fallacious. Buonaparté was stimulated by revenge against all the nations of Europe. His landing, therefore, was not so much an invasion of France, as an invasion of all Europe. It must be obvious to all who had any knowledge of human nature, and who reflected on the extraordinary character of this man, that he could have no intention of remaining at peace; but even if he had, it was perfectly out of his power; for the soldiers under him were anxious to be called back
 [452
 Mr. Tierney  stated it to be his intention to vole in favour of the Amendment. His object was to arm ministers with the powers for which they called; but at the same time he wished to have some guard on their conduct, as from the speech of the noble lord he could not but consider them disposed to consult the security of this country, not in a state of peace, but of war. He wished the House to remember how often the British Parliament had been accused in foreign countries of stirring up wars; and he thought this idea would be strengthened, if, on the present occasion, they came to a vote which would almost amount to a direct declaration in favour of a renewal of war. He had heard that treaties of subsidy had already been negociated. He shuddered at the expenses which a new war must throw on the country; but if the state of the world should seem to make this necessary, he should consider he did his duty to his country in consenting to such an increase of the public expenditure. If it was thought that peace could not be attained but by dethroning Buonaparté, the prospect now before the country appalled him to the heart. Great exertions had been made by England within the last two years; but no man, at all acquainted with the slate of our finances, could say, that at the end of the next two years the country would be in a situation to support a new contest, if the people were not united in their sentiments, and had not their affairs conducted by an administration which possessed their confidence. His object was to make the war a just and necessary one. The Amendment proposed, tended to the accomplishment of this object; and he was of opinion it did not go too far. He trusted he should not be considered as the defender of Buonaparté, or as one who wished to throw impediments in the way of his own govern-
 457]
 Mr. Bankes  gave his full concurrence to
 [454 455]
 Mr. Croker  said, he rose merely to speak to a matter of fact. The hon. gentleman opposite had been pleased to say that a French vessel had been brought in by his Majesty's cruisers under an ambiguous understanding. This statement was totally unfounded. He had not officially heard that any such capture had been made. He had heard a report that a French ship had been sent in; but whether she was navigated under the Imperial flag of France be could not say. If he, were to judge from the statements of some merchants of London, he should believe that the detention had been made under the Hovering Act, and that the ship bore the white flag. But neither directly nor indirectly had any orders been given which would justify any officer to interfere even with the tri-coloured flag of France. The ship by which the French vessel was said to to have been captured, had sailed three weeks ago for a specific purpose; and it was scarcely possible that her commander, in obedience to his orders, could have deemed himself authorized to interfere with the flag of France, of whatever colour it might be. He had been thus explicit, in order that it might not he supposed that this country had shown any bad faith.
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that if he could take so narrow a view of the question as his right hon. friend who had just sat down, or if he thought with the hon. baronet who preceded him, that there was any thing like ambiguity of sentiment in the speech of the noble lord (ambiguity of expression was inseparable from the speeches of the noble lord), he might be content to vote for the Address. But, thinking that those who voted for the Address, unamended, would lose their only opportunity of protesting against that which, whatever might be the equivocal language of the noble lord, was his obvious policy—seeing through the flimsy veil with which his Majesty's ministers attempted to coyer their real objects—aware of the trap into which they were anxious to betray the country—he could not let the occasion pass without availing himself of it to contend in the strongest manner against its being the interest of the country, on any of the grounds hypothetically stated by the noble lord, to begin a fresh crusade for the purpose of determining who should fill the throne of France, after the experience which we had had of the last crusade of twenty years—terminated only by accident, and by the temporary madness of the man who then filled, and who now fills the throne of France. He should maintain that it was the clear and unequivocal interest of this country, and of the Allied Powers on the Continent to fulfil the treaty which they had given to France, when France was under the dominion of the Bourbons. The noble lord having refused to lay the Treaty of Chatillon on the table of the House, had nevertheless assumed in his speech, that the peace given to France under the Bourbons by the Treaty of Paris was on better terms than the peace which
 [442 443] [444 445] [446 447] 448] 449] [450 451]
 Mr. Elliot  said the Address seemed to meet with the general approbation of the House, and should have his support. The Amendment of the hon. gentleman seemed framed with a wish that no measures should be taken but with a view to peace with the person now at the head of the French Government. This was a proposition which at present he was not pre-
 [456
 Mr. William Smith  said, he had decided
 [458
 Sir John Newport  declared, that in giving his vote he should look at the question divested of all the commentaries he had heard upon it. He should not vote for it under the same view as the hon. gentleman had taken of it, who had advised the extermination of the whole French army; because such an idea was absurd, and if the project was attempted, it would certainly be the most unwise crusade that had ever been heard of. He would go as far as the noble lord had gone, but no farther. Instead of entertaining any abstruse question of peace or war, he should wait till
 453]
 Lord Althorp  said, the main question to be decided was, whether, if war was to take place, it was to be a war of defence or of aggression? In 1793 the experiment of forcing a government on France had been tried and had failed, and he thought such an attempt now would be attended with a much less probable degree of success than then. Under all the circumstances, therefore, he was favourable to the amendment.
 The Solicitor General  rose and said, that in his own opinion, and that of his learned friend the Attorney General, after having examined every act of parliament in Ireland respecting the validity of the marriage ceremony, the first marriage of the peti-
 [466
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that really the nature of the hon. gentleman's questions, their number, and his mode of proposing them, were without parallel in the history of Parliament. This was not the time for justifying the transactions in which he had been recently engaged, but as for the letter which had been mentioned by the hon. gentleman, although inasmuch as it was garbled and was a translation of a translation, it was necessarily imperfect, yet he had no hesitation in saying that the general reasoning which it contained proceeded from him, and that notwithstanding the hon. gentleman's remarks, he was perfectly prepared to defend the soundness of the principle of that part of it which related to Saxony. With respect to the nature of the returns which had been made to the Address of the House, unquestionably they did not extend to subjects which subsequent negociations must determine. He had before apologized to the House for having been led by the hon. gentleman's breach of the rules which ought to be observed on these occasions, to commit a breach of them himself, by communicating to Parliament information on the point of Genoa, before the arrangements which had been discussed were actually carried into effect. But the hon. gentleman had taken advantage of garbled documents, to throw on the Government of this country, and on all the Sovereigns of Europe, so much unfounded calumny, that he (lord Castlereagh) was actually driven out of the ordinary path of parliamentary proceeding, for the purpose of defending the good faith of all the parties concerned. He trusted, however, that the abuse of the general rule Would not henceforward be considered as the rule itself, and that the hon. gentleman would not suppose that because he had induced him to pervert the course in one instance, that he would do so in another. He had
 469]
 Lord Castlereagh  still maintained, that no public transaction of an important nature ought to be partially discussed on imperfect documents. His return to England afforded no justification whatever for a departure from the ordinary course with respect to communications on public affairs. The Congress which he had recently attended, was not the first that had assembled in Europe. It had happened in former meetings of the same nature, that our negociator had frequently been changed. Under such circumstances would it have been tolerated that, every individual negociator so returning, should be compelled to state to Parliament the progress of transactions not brought to a close? There could be no pretence for such a thing. He was perfectly aware that nothing he could say would have any effect on the hon. gentleman; but he was sure the House of Commons would feel the value of these observations. To the hon. gentleman it was, no doubt, easier to calumniate his Majesty's ministers and the Allies of the country on imperfect documents than on full information; for experience had shown that when he proceeded on the latter, no one had been less fortunate than the hon. gentleman in establishing the charges which he had thought proper to adduce against public men. He was sure, therefore, that he should make no impression on the mind of the hon. gentleman; and he abandoned the hope of preserving the confidence which it was now evident had been given to him by the hon. gentleman, only because he felt that at the moment when it was given, he (lord C.) was unassailable. Having thus given his confidence, the hon. gentleman turned round, and made his previous candour the ground for a more virulent assault. Without meaning any personal disrespect to the hon. gentle-
 [472
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had not yet any account of the winding-up of the war in America. They had always found means of. meeting the demands of the American service by raising the money as the service required. The monthly payment of one million of dollars formed the largest part of the sum of three millions to which he had alluded.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the only wish could be that captain Usher should have a proper reimbursement of his expenses. He was most desirous that such a reimbursement should be made; but it would be a great assistance to the judgment of the Government if captain Usher would state in the most general way the sum which he supposed himself to have expended.
 Mr. Baring  observed, that it was a novel practice to allow our naval officers to charge such commission as they thought proper for the conveyance of the money of merchants from foreign ports, no such practice having prevailed during the former American war. The hon. gentleman animadverted upon several items in the accounts on the table, with regard to our colonial expenditure, in which profusion appeared to run riot, especially in the Commissariat. This profusion he illustrated by referring to the case of the Cape of Good Hope, in which the allowance to Mr. Hill, of the commissariat, for the-cur-rent year, was 173,000 l l l l l l
 Mr. Gordon  expressed similar sentiments.
 Lord Castlereagh  asked, how it was possible to make any circumstantial return on the subject?
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that by the words of the Address the discretion of the Crown was to be exercised on the information to be communicated. All the information had been given which could diplomatically and constitutionally be afforded.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that it would be necessary for him to enter into a few explanations, lest some
 473] l. l. l. l. l. [474 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. 475] l. l., l. l. s. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered, that such extraordinaries as were incurred before the 25th of March, must be made good in the present session. He presumed the amount would be about three million. He intended to move for six million on account of army extraordinaries, in the present year, of which three million would be wanted for the exceedings incurred previously to the 25th of March.
 Mr. Baring  thought the expenditure of
 477] [478
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think that a committee up stairs could be productive of such advantage as a committee on the spot, armed with power to examine on oath. He did not deny the facts stated by the hon. gentleman, but they had not come to his knowledge. Those gentlemen of the committee in the Peninsula having for years been exclusively employed in this work, must necessarily prosecute the investigation with greater advantage than gentlemen who had other avocations could be supposed to do; upon the whole, therefore, he thought that it would be better that the substance of this investigation, when completed, should be laid before Parliament. He wished that any gentleman possessed of information with respect to any peculation would furnish it to those commissioners, who would avail themselves of it.
 Mr. Baring  thought the right hon. gentleman had quite mistaken him in the kind of inquiry he wished to be instituted. He had nothing to stale against those who were attached to the Commissariat, but against the system pursued by the commissaries under the sanction of Government. Any person might remit money to Lisbon tomorrow, and buy up the government paper; and this might be done with service to the country, as the discredit of that paper should not be suffered to exist. The commissaries had issued a paper discredited to the amount of 75 per cent.; and he had heard, that the lower classes of commissaries were followed by persons
 479]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thanked the hon. gentleman for explaining that it was not by any connivance between the Commissaries that any sum of money had been lost to the public. He was aware of the fact, that much loss had been sustained by the depreciation of the paper, and he did not wish to disguise it. The bills, however, must be paid at the value for which they were given, otherwise it would be a complete robbery. Respecting the concluding remark of the hon. gentleman, he apprehended that the whole of the outstanding debts had been verified, and they only remained to be paid. From the interruption of our commercial intercourse with the Continent, at the time of the Peninsular war, we had not the means of paying for what was required by the Commissariat in money. But he trusted that there was no prospect of our ever being again excluded from all foreign trade, but that in the unfortunate case of any new war, we should be able to exert all our resources to the best possible advantage.
 Mr. Bennet  lamented that it appeared from the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the nation was so near the end of its resources. It behoved the House, therefore, to examine the more minutely into the accounts that were laid before it. The charges for the Army Ex-traordinaries were enormous, and the public money seemed to have been squandered without any consideration of the pockets of those from whom it was drained. He wished for explanation upon many of
 [480 1 l l l l l l l l l 481]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he was happy that the hon. gentleman had given him an opportunity of explaining those items in the accounts before the House, which he seemed to regard as so objectionable. The first to which the hon. gentleman alluded, was the sum standing in the name of lord Aberdeen. He begged to state, that, although this sum stood as if issued for the use of lord Aberdeen alone, yet that noble lord only received it as a public accountant, and was answerable for its disbursement in that light. In fact, the law of the land had provided the best check upon the expenditure of such sums; inasmuch as an officer was established who was sworn, and who had full power to trace the application of every sum in detail. This 25,000 l l l [482 l l 483] l s.
 Mr. Gordon  remarked on the extraordinary difference in amount of the charges on the transport of persons of distinction, on the face of the estimates, and wished to know whether there was any established scheme, according to which those charges were paid; 2,000 l [484 1. l
 Lord Castlereagh  said, the ambassadors being assembled at Vienna, the country had a claim to any services they could perform. Lord Cathcart was the ambassador to Russia, lord Aberdeen to Austria, lord Wellington to the Congress; and lord Clancarty having performed the high mission on which he was sent out with great honour to himself and advantage to the public service, was the only ambassador who was not there in the regular discharge of his duty. He could assure the hon. gentleman, that there had not been one too many there, while he (lord Castlereagh) was at Vienna. Their presence had afforded him much assistance while the negociations of the Congress were going on, and had been found of much importance in the discussions which had taken place on the numerous topics which were there to be taken into consideration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that if any persons connected with the Commissariat were capable of such a practice, they would be obviously guilty of a gross breach of duty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his opinion that any committee appointed for the purposes mentioned by the hon. gentleman, would interfere with the proceedings of those who were appointed to audit the public accounts in the Peninsula. With respect to the large fortunes which had been accumulated by individuals, they were the natural consequence of the very large expenditure which had taken place; but he did not believe they had arisen in any degree from official abuses.
 Mr. Baring  contended, that the examination would not interfere with the auditing of the accounts; and intimated his intention of moving for a committee on some future day.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained the nature of those accounts, and their connexion with the vote of credit, also the great difficulty of making them completely out, parts being still unreturned from Spain. He however had no objection to take a vote of three millions at present, and to defer the remainder.
 Mr. Tierney  objected to this grant: he thought a delay necessary to examine into the accounts, for the purpose of preventing the confusion of both years. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would not press this Resolution to its full extent now, after a vote of twenty-one million, as if he had caught the House in wind, and presumed that, after such a vote, 6,000,000 l
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that there then appeared to be an intention to propose an additional vote of six million—of which three million might be said to be appropriated to the extraordinaries of the last, and three million to those of the current year. This, however, was only the expense of the Army Extraordinaries. Independent of this, he supposed, there would be Extraordinaries in other departments. He should be glad to know whether the million of dollars, which was to be paid monthly, was included in the three million sterling, which would be deducted from the vote on account?
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know, whether the twenty-one million, a part of which had been already provided, and for the residue of which the right hon. gentleman now moved, included all the Extraordinaries? Would no farther addition be wanted? Would not the public be called upon to grant more than this twenty-one million?
 Mr. Tierney  said, that all discussion on this subject was only a waste of time. The total sum now voted by the House was twenty-one millions, and of seventeen millions of this the Treasury already possessed the money. It was useless to discuss a matter of this kind when Government had obtained all they wanted. The enormous scale of the expenditure in the Peninsula required the investigation of a committee up stairs. Such a committee could alone do justice to this subject, and see that punishment should fall where it was due; for he believed in his conscience that great peculation had been going on in the Commissariat department. It was in vain, however, to enlarge upon these subjects, as he saw no encouragement in the present temper of the House. He had no intention of preventing gentlemen from employing their time in a more agreeable manner. It was useless to be talking of a few hundreds to this or that individual, when seventeen millions were in this way voted without inquiry.
 Mr. Bankes  supported the suggestion of appointing a committee above stairs to examine those accounts, and especially to inquire into the conduct of the Commissariat, for the commission appointed to act upon the Continent was not sufficiently comprehensive in its powers completely to answer the end in view. The practice of frauds in this department was matter of public notoriety, which the return of almost all the commissaries with large fortunes from the Continent seemed to place beyond dispute. It was obvious that such men could not accumulate such for* tunes from their mere pay and allowances; and he trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would see the necessity of complying with the public wish by instituting an inquiry upon this subject. If any gentleman should bring forward a distinct motion for the institution of such an inquiry, the motion should certainly have his decided support, and he could not conceive that ministers had any interest in resisting it.
 Mr. Addington  said, that the case had been most maturely and impartially considered by the noble Secretary of State. The law part of the case was submitted to the law officer, and the merits of the case referred to the respectable Judge who tried it. 467]
 Mr. Croker  denied that there was any thing disrespectful to captain Usher, in the supposition that Buonaparté had kept his own table on the voyage. This was commonly done, and it was natural to suppose that it would have been done by Buonaparté for his own accommodation. Captain Usher had never been asked to make out his account item by item, but merely to state the expense incurred, 1, 2, or 300 l
 Mr. Croker  observed, in reply, that captain Usher had received no treatment different from other officers who happened to have a similar service to perform, and who stated generally the expense thereby occasioned. It was not understood that every item should be specified, but merely the expense generally. The hon. gentleman said, however, it was not so much the matter, as the manner of the answer to captain Usher's application that had hurt him. Now, it so happened, that he never had the honour of a personal interview with that gentleman in his life. The whole of the transaction took place in the regular correspondence of the Board of Admiralty, and he was quite unconscious of having given any offence to captain Usher.
 Mr. Croker  was anxious, though he had already denied that he wished Buonaparté had been allowed to pay for his passage, more formally to state such had not been his wish. That could not be permitted. No offence to captain Usher was meant, in supposing that, for his own convenience, Buonaparté might have kept his own table. He was anxious to state this, lest improper motives should be imputed to captains, who permitted that to be done, which it had been supposed it might be Buonaparté's pleasure to do. The course taken with respect to captain Usher was the same with that pursued, under similar circumstances, with sir R. Codrington, admiral Fremantle, and other officers, without the smallest slight being intended or supposed.
 Mr. Croker  in reply, said that the risk was considerable, as the captain was responsible for the delivery of the whole of the specie. He recollected the case of commodore Owen having a freight of specie, and having had some of it stolen, when he was obliged to make good the loss, which not only swallowed up all he received for freight, but also a part of his property. While merchants were glad to pay 2½ per cent, for the freight of specie, government paid only ½ per cent.
 Mr. Croker,  in answer to the questions respecting the sums paid to naval officers in the instances which had been referred to, said these matters were regulated by a scale which it had been thought wise to
 485] l l l [486
 Lord Proby  agreed with the hon. gentleman on the floor, as to the great degree of confusion which prevailed in the Commissariat department. As illustrative of this remark, he instanced the fact of a dollar per day being charged by the commissaries for mules, when an ordinary traveller would not pay more than half a dollar for the same animal, out of which the muleteer would provide for himself and his mule, while the commissaries provided both for the one and the other, at an enormous expense. He considered the whole system as abominable and extravagantly profuse. No man could have an idea of the profusion with which the public money was lavished in that department, who had not served in the armies to witness it. Indeed he had heard one commissary declare, in a public manner, that he thought economy was the ruin of the public service in his department. He begged not to be understood as reflecting on the conduct of any particular individual by these remarks; his observations went to the system, and not to the men, and that system he thought called most loudly for correction.
 Lord Proby  said, that the members of the Commissariat were, he understood, in the habit of becoming contractors themselves; and such a practice was obviously calculated to give rise to great abuse.
 Lord Proby  said, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would compare the expenses of the French and the English Commissariat, especially in the article of transport for troops, he would see good grounds for a serious inquiry.
 Mr. Barham  said, that being a relative
 [488
 Mr. Newman  rose to express his entire approbation of what had fallen from the hon. gentleman; and being unaccustomed to trouble the House, he only begged leave to add, that he had so frequently heard of the very profuse expenditure of the Commissariat, that he hoped a committee would be appointed for the purposes proposed by the hon. gentleman. He should not have trespassed on the time of the House, but from a sense of
 491]
 Mr. Whitbread  said, the hon. gentleman seemed to think captain Usher would have been right to suffer Buonaparté to pay for his passage, [Mr. Croker said "No."] He put it to the hon. gentleman if any officer, or gentleman, could have acted better than captain Usher had done. When it was remembered that no man had fought more bravely, or bled more freely for his country, he trusted some way of remunerating his services would be found without wounding his feelings.
 Mr. Whitbread  felt satisfied, since the question had been put in a point of view agreeable to captain Usher's feelings, that no further difficulty would be found.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that in respect to what the hon. secretary had stated regarding admiral0 Fremantle, he had no doubt but that gallant officer was deserving the remuneration he had received; but he thought the case of captain Usher, one of the most distinguished names in the English navy, was a very hard one. He was stationed in the Mediterranean, and his ship lying at anchor near the place where Napoleon Buonaparté was to embark for the island of Elba. He was ordered to take him on board with his whole suite, which he accordingly did, and furnished him with all his necessary stores and provisions to a considerable amount. He was obliged to keep seven tables on board, to give up the wardroom, and to expose both, himself and his officers to many inconveniences for six or seven days. On arriving at Elba, Buonaparté sent an officer to captain Usher, to pay the whole of the expenses of the passage. Captain Usher thought his Government would be offended if he accepted such payment, and, as he (Mr. Whitbread) thought he ought to have clone, civilly declined receiving the proffered remuneration. It was proper to state that when Napoleon landed in Elba he was destitute of wines and stores; captain Usher supplied him with what he had on board his ship; and when he returned, and applied to the Admiralty for the expenses, he received for answer, that it was supposed Napoleon had paid for himself and his whole suite. Indignant at this, as it seemed to accuse him of endeavouring to obtain money under false pretences, capt. Usher inquired whence this information was obtained, which was finally traced to a memorandum written by the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Croker), and proved to be a mere supposition of his, founded on some hearsay or newspaper report. The captain was then told to make out an account of his expenses. He replied, that he could not, and left the case to the consideration of the Admiralty, who had directed 100 l 487]
 Mr. Whitbread  begged the noble lord would dissever the two terms, for they had nothing to do with one another.
 Mr. Whitbread. —Why, then, did the noble lord second my motion for the Address?
 Mr. Whitbread , adverting to the papers which had been laid on the table in return to the Address of the House of March the 20th, for information relative to the progress of the Congress at Vienna, observed, that the communications which had been made were most meagre and insufficient. He could not but suppose that it was impossible but that in the course of the proceedings of Congress other transfers and annexations must have taken place, besides that of Genoa. Indeed, the noble lord had himself spoken, the other night, of the transfer of a part of Saxony, and had talked of the transfer of the whole of it, in a letter published in the Morning Chronicle of that day—a letter which, whether with reference to the tone assumed by the noble lord as the punisher of kings, whether with reference to the facility with
 [468
 Mr. Whitbread  would make no farther reply to the noble lord than to say, that in giving up the confidence which the noble lord said that, he (Mr. W.) reposed in him, the noble lord had given up that which he never possessed. Once more reverting to the subject in which the conversation which had just taken place had originated, he observed, that the Address requested "an account of the progress made at the Congress now sitting at Vienna." Of this progress no return had been made.—Why not?
 Mr. Whitbread  defended himself from the charge of perverting the rules of Parliament, in order to throw calumnies on the different Governments of Europe. What he had complained of, in the present instance, was, the inadequacy of the return which had been made to the Address of the House, and in support of that complaint he had stated that it was impossible for him to suppose that no annexations had taken place save that of Genoa, which latter the noble lord had confessed in the papers that (as it seemed against his will) he had laid on the table of the House. As to Saxony, he should be satisfied if he could hope that the noble lord would, at some time, give them information which should let them peep behind the scenes, and see what all the noble plenipotentiaries (the noble lord among the rest) had really been doing. The noble lord had talked against throwing suspicions on the conduct of the Allied Powers. Why, what was the noble lord himself about, when in the letter which had that day been published, and which he had acknowledged to be his, he spoke of "the alarming and dangerous pretensions of Russia"? At the same time, however, the noble lord, it appeared by that letter, thought it perfectly consistent with political morality to give up the whole of Saxony to Prussia. [Lord Castlereagh. "Quite the reverse."] Really it was impossible, writing or speaking, distinctly to understand the noble lord's meaning. If the noble lord were permitted to withhold information from the House on these important subjects, in what situation did they stand? The noble lord was absent from the country on confidence. He had no instructions. He was to be governed by his own discretion. He was omnipotent. "He would not allow the machine to stand still while waiting for an impulse from his own Government." Let the House look at the letter of that day, and see how the noble lord expressed himself. "I attach importance to such and such a principle:" "I conceive the King of Saxony to have placed himself by his acts in a situation to be fairly sacrificed to the tranquillity of Europe:" "I shall not regret making
 [470 re infecta 471]
 Mr. W. Smith  conceived, that captain Usher had thought his word doubted, and therefore refused to comply with what was a very reasonable request. He wished to know why the captain who conveyed marshal Blucher from Calais to Dover, had been paid 600 l l 489] l
 Mr. W. Smith  could not conceive the principle upon which a naval officer should be remunerated at the public expense, for doing that which as a servant of the public he was obliged to do; and as to the idea suggested by the hon. gentleman, he thought it quite a mockery to suppose that naval officers could be rendered responsible for the enormous sums sometimes committed to their care.
 Sir Charles Monck  noticed the sum of nearly 8,000 l l l
 Sir S. Romilly  admitted that bigamy, was always a profanation of a sacred ceremony; but thought that the crime was much aggravated when it produced the misery and ruin of the second wife. If in a case that was not aggravated by this circumstance, the severest measure of punishment was inflicted, how would they deal with an aggravated case? In this instance, the petitioner, who was a gentleman by education and profession, was treated like a common felon, and had the severest punishment inflicted that it was possible to pronounce.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, that the Secretary of State having been so obliging as to inform him, that the case of Lathrop Murray, which he had some time ago brought before the House, was not such as to call for the mercy of the Crown, he felt it his duty to present the Petition of which he had spoken when he had first mentioned the business. He did not mean to blame the respectable Judge who had passed the sentence, nor did he mean to censure the Secretary of State. He would state the case from the report of the short-hand writers. Mr. Murray, who was an officer and had served in Spain, was married in 1797, in Londonderry in Ireland, to a lady
 465]
 Mr. Abercrombie  thought that the learned
 499]
 Mr. Baring  concurred in the general principles of the present Bill. If the learned serjeant had left it to its course of operation for a year or two more, its good or bad effects would be more evident. Before any alteration in the Bill had been proposed, he should have been glad to hear that a committee had been appointed to examine the subject thoroughly.
 Mr. Ponsonby  rose and said: I can assure you, Sir, that no man in this House rejoices more sincerely than I do, at the termination of the contest with America: but, in my opinion, it would be a disgrace to this House, to present the Address moved by the hon. member, as it now stands, to his royal highness the Prince Regent; because I think it is the duty of this House to inform his Royal Highness, of what I conceive to have been the gross misconduct, and entire mismanagement, of ministers, in the progress of the negociations, and in the execution of the Treaty, with the United States of America. The first thing that must strike every man who has read this Treaty is, that there is no one subject whatever, that existed in dispute between the two countries, before its signature, that does not, in fact, still exist; and that all the pretensions that were advanced by his Majesty's ministers, in the course of the negociations which ended in this Treaty, were, one by one, abandoned by them. I hope the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Goulburn), as I judge by his manner that he denies this statement, will prove that it is erroneous. I shall be very happy to find that he can do so on good authority. As the noble lord (Castlereagh) refused, on the motion of an hon. friend of mine (Mr. Whitbread) to lay before the House, the papers connected with the negociation, I can have no recourse to documents, except those which the American Government has, by its own authority, and on the responsibility of its own character, published to the world. * * 503] [504 sine quâ non, 505] [506 507] [508 sine quânon, 509] * * [510 511] [512 513] [514 515]
 Mr. Ponsonby , in explanation of his former opinion, repeated that the war originally arose out of the Orders in Council, and the subsequent circumstances did not alter this fact.
 Mr. Baring  condemned the mismanagement which marked the whole of the negociations on the part of this country. He said, that no answers appeared to have been given to notes from the American commissioners till instructions were received from hence; so that the blame or merit of the Treaty rested with ministers. We sent out a noble admiral of much experience, and conversant with the Admiralty business; a learned Civilian from Doctors-Commons, as a judge of the law of nations, and acquainted with
 519] [520 sine quâ non; 521] [522
 Mr. Charles Grant  jun. said, that the subject under the discussion of the House was strictly the Treaty, and the subject grafted on that was the conduct of his Majesty's ministers during the negociation. It had been observed, that several points remaining unsettled, the Treaty was not complete; but in spite of what he had heard, he really thought that an adjustment would be made. He would not enter into the subject of the origin of the war; but he reminded the House that Mr. Maddison had said, that if the repeal of the Orders in Council had been known, it would not have prevented war. The fact was, that there existed a hostile spirit in the American Government towards this country. The right hon. mover of the amendment had said, how advantageous it would have been, if, on the 30th of May we could have concluded peace; but it could not then be done, for the American President still insisted on the flag of the United States protecting all seamen under it, and no peace could be established while such a principle, subversive of all our national rights, was demanded. With respect to the character of this country, which it had been argued was lowered by her late military attempts, he contended that the Treaty itself, so favourable to her interests, showed the respect in which Great Britain was held by the inhabitants of the United States. The hon. gentleman observed, that no Treaty was perhaps ever known to have been concluded upon the terms originally proposed. Those terms generally underwent some modification. It was notorious, indeed, that a negociation with France was some time since broken off by this country, because the negociators on the part of that Government demanded an  ultimatum [524
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he had purposely abstained from rising at an earlier period of the debate, from a wish to hear what objections could be made to the conduct of his Majesty's ministers, before he entered on their justification. They must all feel, that at the close of a transaction which Was happily wound up in peace, it would not be advisable to argue it in any feeling calculated to disturb the amicable relations that at present subsisted. But it was hard that ministers should have to defend themselves against a disclosure on the part of the American Government, made under circumstances which it would now be injudicious to argue. The right hon. member who had examined the discussion of the negociators, guided by the result, was such an economist in point of time as to take advantage of events which, having subsequently taken place, ought not to be applied to the negociations by which they were preceded. But would the right hon. member undertake to say that it was not right to send a force then disposable into America, in the month of May? If he would now do so, it should be recollected that he did not do so at the time. The concessions on the part of this country were all made at the period when our successes were most conspicuous; and such was the spirit of conciliation on our part, that we even agreed to an arrangement by which his Majesty's Government was bound, while it was left to the discretion of the American Government to agree or not. So far was the desire of peace exemplified on our part. As to the mediation of the emperor of Russia, it was declined, not from any doubt of the liberality of that monarch, but on the ground that England was the best and only competent judge of her own rights. With respect to the charge of delay, he could state, that down to the 9th of last August, the American commissioners had no instructions from their Government on the subject of the maritime rights; and he had no hesitation in admitting that it was his wish, and the wish of those with whom he acted, that the transactions which had taken place in Europe should be known in America. Another circumstance worthy of remark was, that his Majesty's negotiators had stated all their objects at once. From the
 [532
 Mr. Robinson  supported the Address, and contended that no unnecessary delay had been occasioned by the the British commissioners. With respect to the attack on Washington, as that event took place in the month of August, and the first meeting of the commissioners was on the 8th of that month, the event would have equally taken place, if they had concluded the treaty the first day of their meeting. 
 
 For the Amendment 37 
 Against it 128 
 Majority 91
 Mr. W. Bathurst  said, it was impossible for those who had fully investigated the effect of the Bill known by the name of "lord Redesdale's Bill," not to observe that it was injurious as well to public credit as to public morals; by exciting on the one hand a lawless extravagance, and on the other by creating distrust, and destroying that useful credit which was essential to the existence of the country as a commercial nation. He did not wish to advert to the law as it existed before the passing of this Bill, yet he most fully subscribed to the necessity of bringing forward some measure by which a distinction might be made between the unfortunate and the fraudulent debtor; and with this feeling he cordially seconded the motion of the hon. and learned Serjeant on the floor, than whom he thought no man more competent to the performance of the task he had undertaken.
 Mr. Horner  said, that from the reading of the motion which he had just heard, he had been released, from the uncertainty in which he was placed from the form of the notice of the learned serjeant, as it stood on the order-book, as it was there stated that his intention was to move for the repeal of the Insolvent Act altogether. He was glad to find that he was mistaken, and that the object of the learned serjeant was only to amend the Bill in question. It was not his intention to follow the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, in his
 497]
 Mr. Hart Davis  rose for the purpose of moving an address of thanks to the Prince Regent, for the treaty of peace with the United States of America. He trusted the. House would do him the justice to believe, that it was with great diffidence he rose on the present occasion, when so many other gentlemen were so much better qualified for the task; but he should content himself with briefly stating the considerations which satisfied his mind that the treaty deserved the thanks and congratulation of the House. There were few men in this country, he believed, who did not agree that the war, as declared by America, was unprovoked on our part; and it was to him equally manifest that it was now brought to a close not inconsistent with our honour or our interests. That man must have singular views of the policy of Great Britain, who thought that it ought to have been continued by us for the purpose of territorial aggrandisement, from vindictive feelings, or from a wish to extend the triumphs of our arms in another hemisphere. Besides, it could not fail to be considered, that however unprovoked, it was a war carried on with a people of the same origin, the same language, and the same manners with ourselves,—a war, therefore, which must be naturally entered upon with reluctance, and terminated with satisfaction. Neither could it be overlooked, that the interests of America were closely connected with our own. She was essentially a great agricultural country, and could advantageously supply us with her raw produce, while she took our manufactures in return. The more she was driven from pursuing her natural policy, by war or a system of blockade, however necessary these might have been, in the same proportion was she forced to become a great maritime and manufacturing country. Peace with America, then, was the natural policy of this country; and indeed the
 501]
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he could not remain silent after the animadversions which had been made by the right hon. gentleman upon the conduct of those who were parties to the Treaty. The line of argument, however, which the right hon. gentleman adopted, fortunately afforded him a full opportunity of refuting the misrepresentations which had been made, and of showing, he hoped satisfactorily, that no want of attention to the true interests of this country could be fairly substantiated against those to whom the arrangement of this Treaty had been confided by Government. With respect to the origin of the war, he greatly differed from the right hon. gentleman. So far from thinking that the Orders in Council had created it, he was of an opinion diametrically opposite; and he would also beg leave to recall to the right hon. gentleman's recollection, his (Mr. Ponsonby's) former observation, that from the moment when the Orders in Council were repealed, America had no longer any cause of complaint. She, however, thought otherwise—she declared war for principles that were not concealed; these were—what she termed the forcible seizure of her mariners; certain points relating to his Majesty's right of allegiance over his subjects; and certain principles relative to the right of blockade. Those points formed the real grounds of the war, and were wholly distinct from the Orders in Council. The pretensions with which America set out were those of resisting the rights of his Majesty over his own native subjects—rights acknowledged and sanctioned by public law. These, the right hon. gentleman said, were not stated in the Treaty; certainly not: it would have been abandoning them, to have them so recorded, or to admit their being called into discussion in a convention with any other power.
 [516 sine quâ non. 517] [518
 Mr. J. P. Grant  supported the Amendment, on the ground of the delay with which the negociators of this country were
 533]
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that the description of persons whom his hon. and learned friend was desirous of punishing, were not those who committed what were termed legal frauds, and who would, of course, be subject to the laws already in force for preventing such crimes; but it should be recollected that there were many frauds which did not come under the head of legal frauds, and which it was extremely desirable should not pass off with impunity. Of this description were those sorts of
 [498 l l
 Mr. Marryatt  contended, that the concessions of Great Britain had failed to conciliate America, who, however, in the treaty of 1787, allowed France to reclaim her subjects, so that she stood condemned out of her own mouth. With regard to what the hon. gentleman had said concerning the Indians, it was incumbent on Great Britain to make some stipulation on the part of those who had bled in her service. That unhappy race had been treated by the Americans with the greatest cruelty: they were shot at with no more hesitation than if they were deer or hares, and their territories were constantly seized by their encroaching neighbours; but in this Treaty they had found a legitimate protector, such as they had never known before. The great object of peace, as Mr. Maddison had observed, was to prevent a recurrence of war and ministers had
 523]
 Mr. Hurst  expressed his admiration of the present Insolvent Act, which he thought sufficiently effective without any amendment. It had fallen to his lot to sit as chairman under the Act, and from his own experience, he could state that every means were taken to prevent the discharge of fraudulent debtors. In the whole county of Sussex the discharge of but five persons had been opposed.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  said, that the last observation of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, afforded the best argument for his motion, inasmuch as by the Statement he had made, that but five persons had been opposed in the whole County of Sussex, the evil arising from persons removing from distant county gaols to the metropolis was rendered manifest. The learned serjeant replied to the objections that had been made against his proposed Bill, and complained of being misunderstood by those who contended that the object of the Bill was to punish insolvency. It tended merely to discriminate between this insolvency which was unavoidable, and that insolvency which was the result of misconduct.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws respecting Insolvent Debtors. His intention, in bringing in this Bill, was first, to force persons who were possessed of property to give it up to their creditors, and next, to punish those persons who had become insolvent through their own profligacy or vice. The first object which he had stated he had no doubt would meet with the general concurrence of the House. The proposition which he should submit was founded upon an Act passed so early as the reign of George the 2d, by which it was enacted, that persons imprisoned for debt should be obliged to deliver up their property for the benefit of their creditors, under the penalty of transportation. The provisions of this Act, however, only extended to persons having incurred debts under the sum of 100 l [494 495] s s s [496
 Sir James Mackintosh , having been accused of sacrificing justice and humanity to his sanguine views of progressive civilization, observed, in explanation, that if in the year 1600 any European Powers at war with England, under pretence of humanity for the Indians, and of the injustice which they always suffered from Europeans, had compelled us to promise by treaty that we should make no purchases of land from these Indians, the whole of North America would at this day have contained fifty thousand cannibals, instead of ten millions of British freemen, who may be numbered among the most intelligent, the most moral, the bravest, and the most happy of the human race. Sentence of desolation and barbarism would have been passed on a considerable portion of the globe. Our ministers in this proposal had tried to doom to the same fate all that yet remained to be reclaimed.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, that he rose after his hon. relation, partly to express the pride as well as pleasure with which he had listened to his arguments, though he was obliged to controvert their justice. He would begin by avowing, however unfashionable such principles had now become, his partiality to America, because she was not only bound to us by the ties of common origin, but by the closer fellowship of civil and religious liberty. The spirit of liberty had given us an American empire: the spirit of domination had robbed us of it. Peace with America he considered as one of the greatest of national advantages; for of all separate objects of our foreign policy, he thought friendship with America was the second. The strength and security of Holland he allowed to be the first. He had at all times equally lamented and reprobated those vulgar prejudices, and that insolent language against the people of America, which had been of late so prevalent in this country, and which had reached so extravagant a height, that men, respectable in character as well as station, had spoken in this House of the deposition of Mr. Maddison as a justifiable object of war, and had treated a gentleman of English extraction and education with a scurrility which they must now be the first to regret, for no better reason than that we happened to be at war with the great republic over which he presides. He did not, therefore, object so much to the Treaty as to the Address. He objected to it because the Treaty was not concluded sooner, because the delay was unfavourable to its conditions, and above all, because the negociations were not conducted
 525] Cadit questio. [526 527] [528 * * 529] [530 531]
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he did not rise to oppose the progress of this Bill. He thought, on the contrary, that it was a Bill which would confer the most important benefits on Scotland. He could by no means consider it as a mere experiment, but as an immediate remedy for a great practical evil. From his own experience in appeal causes from Scotland, he knew that the greater part of them turned upon mere matters of fact. The mode of trying these questions now in Scotland was enormously expensive as well as dilatory. A case which in England might be disposed of by a jury five or six weeks after the action was brought, was often pending in Scotland for seven or eight years. There was another great advantage, in the trial by jury, that the countenance, the deportment, and tone of voice of the witness, was a sort of living commentary on the value of his testimony. This was an advantage that trials taken upon written depositions could not have. He certainly valued highly the conscientious scruples of those petitioners, who supposed, that after taking the juror's oath, they could not give up their opinion to their fellow jurors, so as to agree upon a verdict. In this country, however, where the trial by jury had existed for many centuries, a man would be supposed to have a very perverted understanding, if he could imagine that, after having advanced all the arguments he could in support of his impressions, he would be perjured in finally acquiescing with the opinions of the majority, and finding a verdict accordingly. He must also observe that he thought this Bill might be a precedent for important amelioration in a part of the English law. In our Ecclesiastical courts, the proceedings (which also went on written depositions) were enormously expensive and dilatory. He hoped that when the attention of the House was called to the advantages of trial by jury in Scotland, they would also see the propriety of a similar mode of trial in many of the cases before our Ecclesiastical courts.
 Mr. W. Dundas  fully agreed with the hon. and learned gentleman in his remarks on the great importance of this Bill, and declared that he had no wish to precipitate it through the House; on the contrary, he was desirous of paying every at-
 585]
 Mr. W. Dundas  proposed an amendment, the object of which was to provide, that after the death of the commissioners which should be first appointed to preside in the Jury Court (one of whom, for the sake of setting the machine going, it was intended should be English), all the commissioners should be appointed from among Scotch barristers. This arrangement, he thought, would in a great measure remove the jealousy which was at present felt by persons in Scotland towards this measure.
 Mr. Abercrombie  disapproved of this amendment. He paid a high compliment to the talents and fitness of the gentleman whom he understood now to be appointed (Mr. Adam), and considered it as one of the most important parts of the Bill, that there should be some one commissioner at least, well acquainted with the rules of evidence in this country, upon trials by jury. He thought it too much to tie up the hands of the executive power from appointing any such person, in case of the death of the gentleman now appointed.
 Mr. Horner  supported the amendment. He thought that a mere English barrister would be no more competent to try causes according to the law of Scotland, than a barrister who had only practised in Scotland, would be to sit at Guildhall and try cases according to the law of England. He conceived that the law of evidence in Scotland would be improved by the trial by jury; but it must be, after all, by the Scotch law of evidence, and not by the English law, that those trials must be decided. If there was any attempt to transplant at once the English law of evidence into Scotland, he was sure that it would fail.
 The Lord Advocate  of Scotland cordially approved of the measure, and thought the amendment judiciously introduced.
 Mr. Croker  also spoke in favour of the amendment, and fully acceded to the propriety of the commissioners in question being confined to the Scotch bar. The amendment was then agreed to, and the clause adopted. Several new clauses were then proposed, among which was
 [586
 The Solicitor General  said, that the opinion which the law officers of the Crown had given on the occasion, was not founded either on the imperfection of the act of parliament for the abolition of the Slave Trade, or on that of the commission which was sent out to carry the purposes of the Act into execution. There was no question, that whenever the crime was committed, if by a British subject, it was liable and punishable by law. But the opinion was founded on the deficiency of the power of the colonial jurisdiction. This crime was tried by the colonial court of Sierra Leone, though not committed within the territories of Sierra Leone. It might be another question, whether it might not be right to give the colonial court the same powers in criminal matters which the courts here have. But the fact was, that they had not them. He said thus much to show that it was not on the ground of any point of form, but on that of the deficiency of the jurisdiction of the colonial court, that the sentence had been laid aside. On no other occasion did Parliament give a colonial court a power
 611]
 Mr. Ponsonby  rose and said:—Sir, I wish to ask the noble lord opposite some questions on a subject of the greatest importance. It is very generally rumoured, and the rumour is very generally believed, that a proposition—an overture—a communication—I really do not know by what name I ought to call it—has been made by the present
 [614
 Lord Castlereagh.  —I am sure, Sir, that under the present circumstances of Europe, the right hon. gentleman will not expect me to state the nature either of the communication or of the reply. I have no difficulty in saying, that such a communication has been received by his Majesty's Government, and, as the right hon. gentleman has surmised, that it has been transmitted to our Allies assembled at Vienna. At what particular moment the answer may be expected it is not in my power to inform the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Ponsonby  —When was the communication sent off to Vienna?
 Lord Castlereagh.  —Immediately on its receipt by his Majesty's Government—about three days ago.
 Mr. Ponsonby.  I repeat, Sir, that I am anxious, not improperly to press any question on the noble lord, but this is a subject which seems to me of the highest importance. Is it in the contemplation of of his Majesty's Government to take any step aggressive towards France before the the answer from Vienna shall arrive?
 Lord Castlereagh.  —I must really beg leave to decline replying to this question.
 Mr. Ponsonby,  after saying that he would not press it, proceeded to observe, that there was another subject on which it was necessary to make some arrangement. He alluded to his motion respecting Genoa, which had fallen to the ground, in consequence of a House not having been made yesterday. As he understood the noble lord when this subject was lately talked of by them, the noble lord was disposed to grant some of the papers which he required, though not all. It would perhaps save time were he to read the motion, which it was his intention to make; it was as follows: "That an humble
 615]
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that he had no objection to the early part of the motion respecting Sicily; and that with respect to the latter part, although he could not consent to produce lord W. Bentinck's instructions generally as respecting Italy, he was perfectly disposed to produce the part of his lordship's instructions which, perhaps, might be desired by the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Ponsonby  inquired if the noble lord was disposed to consent to the production of so much of the instructions of lord W. Bentinck respecting Italy, as regarded the taking advantage of any disposition to insurrection against the power of France?
 Lord Castlereagh  answered, that he had no objection to the production of that part of lord W. Bentinck's instructions. If the right hon. gentleman would communicate in private with him on the subject, they might probably come to an understanding upon it.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that the noble lord appeared disposed to give all that he wanted. He would at present fix his motion for Tuesday, and would, in the course of the evening, avail himself of the indulgence of the noble lord to communicate with him on the subject.
 The Attorney General  defended his hon. and learned friend, the Solicitor General, from the charge of throwing any doubt on the existing law. His hon. and learned friend had distinctly stated, that Slavetrading by British subjects, was always felony. If it were thought by any one, that the pardon of the individuals in question proceeded from any disposition on the part of Government to relax in their honourable perseverance in destroying, root and branch, the horrible traffic in human blood, such a supposition was utterly unfounded; it arose from a laudable solicitude to keep different jurisdictions distinct and separate—a precaution indispensably necessary for the security of the liberty of the subject.
 Lord Castlereagh  put it to his hon. friend, whether his object had not been completely answered by the discussion which had taken place? It was manifest, that the indulgence which had been granted to the persons in question, arose not out of the merits of their case, but out of the nature of the jurisdiction by which they had been tried. Under these circumstances, he submitted to his hon. friend, whether it would not be wise to withdraw his motion?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the right hon. gentleman had omitted the latter clause of his motion, he should willingly have given it his approbation; in truth it was but anticipating his own intention, upon the subject of the Civil List. The right hon. member had admitted that the proposal was extraordinary in its nature, and that it was giving powers to a committee never before granted upon the subject of the immediate
 [628 vivâ voce l 629] l l l l l l l [630
 Mr. Ward  thought the speech of his right hon. friend who made the motion, remained wholly unanswered. The powers which the motion required for the committee appeared to him to be necessary, or, like former committees, it would only give them good advice, and encourage them to indulge pleasing hopes of the future, which would never be realised. The Chancellor of the Exchequer could not deny that the Civil List expenditure had continued progressively to increase, notwithstanding the frequent appointment of committees; and things would go on in the same way as heretofore, from year to year, unless a measure like that recom-
 631] l l l l l
 Mr. Bennet  said, that the difference between the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his right hon. friend who made the motion was, that his right hon. friend wished for a committee, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer wished merely for an apology, and by tacking an amendment to the motion, wanted in reality to sink it. Without following the Chancellor of the Exchequer into his details, he should make some remarks on a subject on which he had not touched. Although more than 900,000 l [632 l 633] l
 Mr. Rose  admitted, that a case had been made out which called for inquiry. It was fit that a strict investigation of the excess which appeared in the estimates should take place; but for this purpose, he denied that it was necessary to give the committee powers which the committees formerly appointed had not possessed. Those which it had been customary to give were in his opinion quite sufficient. In sixteen years, under very extraordinary circumstances, the excess had averaged 81,000 l
 Lord Castlereagh.  —I can only say in reply to the hon. gentleman, that the reasons by which I was influenced the other evening in declining to satisfy the hon. gentleman's inquiries continue to operate. Whenever they shall cease to exist I will cheerfully answer all questions, enter into any discussion, and give every information on the subject. I am at a loss to conceive what can be the object of these questions by the hon. gentleman with respect to individual documents and circumstances, seeing that, whether I were to answer them affirmatively or negatively, it is impossible that the hon. gentleman could found upon such, answers any parliamentary proceeding.
 Lord Castlereagh  thought that no case of necessity had been made out for deviating from the established practice of Parliament upon a subject of this nature, and therefore he felt himself bound to oppose the original motion. He could not recognise the policy or propriety of violating the delicacy and deference due to the Crown, by subjecting its expenditure to such an odious inquisition as this motion appeared likely to produce. It was due, injustice to the Crown, to consider the nature of the Civil List, which, be it remembered, was originally established as a substitute for a large hereditary revenue surrendered by the Crown to the public. But that revenue was notoriously derived from sources, the produce of which would have progressively increased with the progressive prosperity of the country, while the amount of the Civil List being settled, was affected by all the changes of circumstances and the depreciation of money, the influence of which, every individual must feel in his own private expenditure. Had the Crown retained its hereditary estate, it was not at all likely to have been under the necessity of applying to Parliament for the payment of its debts. But the fact was, that the bargain which gave rise to the
 [638 639] l l [640 l
 Mr. Bathurst  deprecated all interference by Parliament, in the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown, and in none more than that most valuable one, of extending mercy. He thought the production of
 [610
 Mr. Bathurst  defended the appointment of Mr. Canning, and contended, that if the revenues of the Crown had been suffered to remain as in the time of Charles 2, they would be more considerable than they were at present. He was clearly of opinion, that no farther advantage could accrue from a  vivâ voce
 Mr. Horner  said, he understood the three men had, in their petitions, acknowledged their guilt.
 Mr. Horner  expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should oppose the motion, and observed that there was, in the present instance, sufficient reason for parliamentary inquiry. The case was this, Parliament had felt a great and laudable anxiety for the total abolition of the Slave Trade. It was therefore a very natural curiosity in them to inquire, why three persons convicted of being engaged in that traffic, should have received the royal pardon. It should be shown to Parliament and the country, that it was in consequence of some defect in the manner of their conviction, and not from the merits of the case. It should be shown that the authority of the Crown was not exercised to sanction that traffic; for these, as well as for ulterior objects, the motion should be acceded to. If the acquittal arose from some defect in form—from some inadequacy in the Act, or in the commission—it was important that the House should strengthen the Executive against all future cases, lest similar acquittals might be the consequence of the present system. This case had been stated by a person high in judicial authority in Sierra Leone (Dr. Thorpe); and by him it had been studiously reported, that they were acquitted, although British subjects, because the crime had not been committed within British territory. Every lawyer, however, must perceive, that by the letter of the law, any British subject who was found guilty of slave-trading might be made amenable to the law. One of these men pleaded guilty. Another was, on the clearest evidence, proved to be guilty. The third alleged that he was a subject of Ferdinand the 7th; it appeared, however, on the trial, that he was a native-born subject, and that his pretence for calling himself a subject of Ferdinand 7 was, that he had served for a certain time on board a Spanish slave-ship. He was perhaps a very fit subject for such a sovereign. He did not mean to impute the slightest blame to Government on this oocasion, but he saw no reason for refusing the papers.
 Mr. Tierney  rose to move for an inquiry into the causes of the excesses of the Civil List. The object which he had in view was not so' much to move the appointment of a committee, for he considered that no objection would be made to this, so as to couple with the appointment of that committee a power of examining such persons as could explain, and of calling for the production of such papers, as might be calculated to throw light on the expendi-
 617] l l l l l [618 l l l l l l l l l l l l 619] l l l l l l l l [620 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 621] l [622 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 623] l l [624 l l 625] l l l l l l l l l l l l [626 l l l 627]
 Mr. Tierney,  in reply, ridiculed all the arguments which had been urged by the opponents of his motion, to show that the House could have a good inquiry without sending for the persons and papers from whom alone the requisite information could be obtained.
 Mr. H. Martin  thought the question for the House to consider on this occasion was, whether they would appoint a committee with powers sufficient to obtain full and satisfactory information, as his right hon. friend proposed, or with no powers whatever but to read the papers laid before it, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had recommended. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer pleaded precedent in support of his recommendation. What, however, did this precedent show? Why, that notwithstanding the several committees heretofore appointed upon the subject of the Civil List, the debts had still gone on increasing; so that the evil, complained of had been in no degree cured. On the contrary, the mischief had been aggravated; and this surely was a strong reason for discarding the precedent relied upon on the other side, while it furnished a volume of argument for adopting the proposition of his right hon. friend for the appointment of a committee, with competent powers to inquire and obtain adequate information.
 Mr. Addington  said, that the judge who tried those persons, not thinking the evidence conclusive, was resolved to recommend them to mercy; but that, subsequently, the question of the point of law was started, on which the pardon was founded.
 Mr. Addington  replied, that such was the impression at present on his mind.
 Mr. Addington  contended that the production of the papers was unnecessary, and unauthorized by the custom of parliament. Had there been any impropriety in the conduct of the ministers who advised the Prince Regent to extend his mercy to the persons concerned, it would have been a good ground for parliamentary inquiry; but none had been imputed to them in the present instance. The only reason he could discover for the motion was, that a pamphlet had been lately published, reflecting with some severity on the African Company, and misstating the case of those three men. He would assure his hon. friend, that the law-officers of the Crown had delivered it as their opinion, that the individuals in ques-
 609]
 Mr. Calcraft  supported the original proposition. The Civil List he considered as a compact between the Crown, the Par-
 637]
 Mr. J. H. Smyth  contended, that the doubts of the law which had been, expressed by the Solicitor General, afforded an additional proof of the necessity of acceding to the motion.
 Mr. Barham  said, that as we were calling on other nations to put down the Slave Trade, and as many doubts were thrown on our own sincerity, every opportunity should be taken to show the injustice of such calumnies; he thought, therefore, that the papers should not be refused.
 Mr. Peter Moore  said, that he had laid the foundation-stone of this debate, as the petitions presented by those persons had been orignally transmitted through him. He had no hesitation in acknowledging, that lord Sidmouth and the rest of his Majesty's ministers would have acted with justice and liberality towards those men; but he must say, that but for his exertions their case would not have been so attentively considered, and that they would now have been perhaps suffering the penalties of their sentence. It had been asserted, that the judge who tried this case had been appointed by the chief justice of the upper court; this he felt authorized distinctly to contradict. But, in reality, there had been no evidence to convict the prisoners. He had both read and written on this subject, and he felt satisfied that the best mode of treating it would be in a committee. There they could examine into the nature and efficacy of the Act, and of the manner of carrying it into execution; and there, too, be feared, they would discover that the present system, under the operation of that Act, had done greater injury to the cause of humanity than the Slave Trade itself, during the unlimited violence of its fury. This alone would be a good ground for instituting a committee, to which should be referred the papers now moved for, forming a mass of evidence, and of valuable information. He conceived the case of the individuals who had been convicted, to be extremely severe, and those who declared them British subjects, and guilty under the Act, seemed but little acquainted with the circumstances. In fact, only one of them was a British subject, Mr. Brodie, and he had not, been engaged in that traffic for near twelve months previous to the passing of the Act under which he had been convicted, and of the others, one was an American and one a Spaniard. Could it be denied, that such an occurrence did not call loudly for inquiry? And where could the case be so well investigated as in a committee? He would, therefore, entreat the hon. member to prefer that mode of procedure, in which he promised him his most sincere co-operation; his time and his exertions should be most sedulously devoted to the attainment of that interesting object of their mutual wishes.
 Mr. Long  said, he resisted the motion of the right hon. gentleman opposite, on the same ground that he opposed a similar motion two years ago, namely, because he thought such a proposition contrary to parliamentary practice, and the inquisition in view indelicate and disrespectful towards the Crown. As to the debt of the Civil List, any gentleman who considered in his own private expenditure the change which had taken place in the value of money and all the articles of consumption, from the year 1797 to 1811, when the last investigation of this debt took place, could not be surprised at its amount. He denied that any part of this debt, or any mischief attributed to it, could be conceived to proceed from the committees alluded to; and as to the committee proposed by his right hon. friend, if that committee in the progress of its inquiry was found to require additional powers, it would be open to the chairman to move the House upon the subject. With respect to the expense of our embassies, the right hon. gentleman asserted that our diplomatic agents were not so well paid as those of any other court in Europe.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the arguments of the noble lord were as much against the appointment of any committee, as against a committee with such powers as had been recommended by his right hon. friend in his motion; and he must really think that if his right hon. friend had failed to convince the House that night of the necessity of such a committee there was no reason to hope it would ever
 641] [642 l l l l l l l 643] bonâ fide,
 Mr. Whitbread.  —What the noble lord has said is a complete admission of the authenticity of the letter in question. No person who has heard the noble lord can entertain a shadow, of doubt that the letter which has been published in the newspapers, and described to be from Prince Talleyrand to the noble lord, is genuine. This, Sir, is not the time to press a debate on the subject. The noble lord says he is prepared, whenever the proper time shall arrive, to give the House every information upon it. If the noble lord really will communicate the whole of the correspondence that passed between him and prince Hardenberg and prince Talleyrand, prior and consequent to the notable letters in which prince Hardenberg, prince Talleyrand, and the noble lord, cut such a figure, Parliament will then be enabled to take a full and fair view of the question.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he was sure if his hon. friend had spoken from any other part of the House, [Mr. Wilberforce was sitting on the Opposition bench], and the right hon. gentleman had not had the benefit of his glasses, he would have acceded to the motion. He begged to remind the right hon. gentleman, that the object of the motion was not to impeach the Government, or the conduct of his noble relative in the exercise of what he conceived to be his duty: but it was to prevent any misrepresentation going forth to the world as to the grounds upon which those persons had been pardoned. Now really, when they recollected all that was necessary for furthering the great work of the abolition, it could not be unimportant to have all the aspersions and calumnies which had been cast upon the Government removed; and to show that it had not taken any part against the abolitionists, but that the sentence had been remitted through a mere defect of form in the trial. He would again beg the right hon. gentleman to recollect that it was the member for Bramber who had brought forward the motion, and that though accidentally among them, he was not one of those who wilfully sat upon that bench.
 Mr. Whitbread.  —Sir, another most extraordinary paper has appeared in the public prints. I mean the Letter from Prince Talleyrand to the noble lord opposite, purporting to be an answer to a letter from the noble lord, desiring his opinion on the conduct which ought to be pursued by Congress towards Naples; and ending with a request to the noble lord to apply to his court for authority to subscribe a resolution of Congress, recognis-
 [616
 Sir W. Congreve  acknowledged that the works in the parks had exceeded the estimates; but he would be bound to prove they did not exceed them by more than 3,000 l [634
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that by recent regulations, the surveyor of woods had the superintendence of buildings in the parks. He thought it quite unnecessary that the committee should have the power of sending for persons, papers, and records The chairman might be instructed to move the House, that additional information might be granted; or any individual member might move for information, if he thought fit. To grant such a power to such a committee, was unprecedented. He could not see how his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer could be accused of a desire to defeat the motion, when he had himself given notice that he should have moved for a committee; neither could he see, that if the committee had the fullest powers, it could inquire into the reason why the Prince Regent did not hold three levees a week. The doctrine that a Sovereign was to be never in private was novel. Were they to be as Indian idols, always open to the gaze of the worshippers? The hon. member deprecated the invidious comments which had been made upon several items in the papers on the table, with regard to the expenditure of the Royal Family, and adverting to the animadversions upon the allowance granted to his right hon. friend, Mr. Canning, at Lisbon, the hon. gentleman entered into some explanation. Before his right hon. friend's appointment to the office of ambassador to the Court of Portugal, the chargé d'affaires, who had not to maintain the dignity of that station
 635] l l l [636
 Mr. William Smith  said, that as no injury would arise from the motion, he hoped there would be no farther opposition to it.
 Mr. William Smith  supported the motion.
 [644
 Mr. Wilberforce,  in reply, maintained, that unless his motion were granted, the world would understand, that the crime of which these persons had been convicted might be committed with impunity. He was most anxious that it should, on the contrary, be distinctly understood to be a great and atrocious crime, punishable by the British laws; and that, in the present instance, the individuals convicted of it had been pardoned simply because they had been tried by an incompetent tribunal. Adverting to the calumnies which had been cast on the proceedings of the Sierra Leone Company, he said, that with respect to his lamented friend, the late Mr. Henry Thornton, he had been top long known in that House, and too highly respected for his ability, and integrity, to render it necessary that he should be vindicated on this occasion. [Hear, hear!] But he wished to state, with regard, to another gentleman, whose character was not so much, in public view, he meant Mr. Macaulay, that a greater public benefactor, a more disinterested and indefatigable individual, he had never met with in the course of his experience. As to the wish of his hon. friend, for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the subject, he was convinced, that the more light was thrown on the conduct of the Company the purer would it appear; and he would court the inquiry, were it not that he really did not think it a pleasant thing to spend morning after morning in a contentious investigation on the subject. With respect to the appointment of Mr. Purdy, in contradiction to the statement of his hon. friend, he read an extract of a letter from Dr. Thorpe, in which Mr. Purdy was recommended for the situation. He complained of the small sum, only 96,000 l
 Mr. Wilberforce  acquiesced in this proposition; and, after paying a compliment to the accurate manner in which what passed in that House was stated to the public, withdrew his motion.
 Mr. Wilberforce  rose,
 [608 pro tempore
 Sir Thomas Acland  said, he should vote for the motion, on the ground that a pretty general feeling existed throughout the country, that on this particular subject there was a greater waste and extravagance than necessary, and that in this particular quarter there was a habit of expense, not conducive to the true splendour of the Crown, nor calculated to advance the real honour of the country. In such a case, when such a feeling existed on the part of the people, that House ought not to be found wanting in their duty to those whom they were bound to protect. If ever there was a time in which the discharge of this duty was more loudly called for than at another, it was the present; first, as an expression of gratitude for the manner in which the House had been seconded by the people during twenty years of arduous contest; and secondly, because it was considered not impossible but that the Government of the country might in a short time be compelled again to draw very deeply indeed upon her exertions. If this last necessity should occur, he trusted that every man would cheerfully come forward to lend his aid, and no one should be found more ready to support the interests and the honour of the country than himself; but this would be done with more alacrity, H the people saw that on an inquiry like that now proposed, the most efficient way was taken of arriving at the truth. He did not blame any one. He would treat every body with all due delicacy. He would, instead of curtailing the splendour of the Crown, do every thing to add to that splendour; and he was persuaded that the most substantial mode of effecting this, would be to institute a  bonâ fide
 Lord Milton  said, that the committee, without power to call for persons, papers, and records, would be a dead letter. There was no necessity for a committee, if it was only to make calculations on the papers already on their table. The duty of a committee would be not merely to see whether there were vouchers for every expenditure, but whether it was conducted consistently with economy. He wished to know whether the erections in Windsor-park were within the department of Woods and Forests, or that of the Civil List?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to move the postponement of the second reading of the Assessed Taxes Bill, which stood for that evening. In doing so he said he would avail himself of the opportunity of stating that in the committee of ways and means, on Wednesday next, he meant to refer the acts relating to the property tax to the said committee, for the purpose of moving the continuance of the same.
 Mr. Fremantle  asked whether it was proposed to submit any alteration either in the principle of the measure, or the mode of its application.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that he did not intend to propose any alteration in the principle of the Bill. It would be open to any gentleman to suggest such modifications in the committee as he might deem advisable.
 The Attorney General  deemed it his duty not to let the present motion pass without some observations. He adverted to the opinion of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, when he made his first motion relative to Murray, namely, that the House ought not to interfere with the sentences of courts of justice without the most grave and weighty reasons. In this opinion he perfectly agreed; but he assured him that he totally differed from him in the view he had taken of the case in question which he considered to be one of the most flagrant nature. If it had been deemed necessary of late to make the punishment for the crime of bigamy more severe, it was because the law had found that imprisonment was not sufficient to deter evil-minded persons from committing it. He reprehended the conduct of the second wife of Murray, in consenting to marry him, without the knowledge of her friend, after he had told her of his former marriage, and merely taking his word that it was null and void. She had a fortune of 10,000 l. l. 655]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should put off the consideration of the assessed taxes from day to day, until he learned whether the House would coincide in the propriety of a renewal of the property tax.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in his view of the subject, whether this country were in a state of war, or of defensive and expensive pacification, the renewal of the property tax would be equally necessary for the public service.
 Mr. Ponsonby  acknowledged, that he entertained a great jealousy towards those powers intrusted to the Government by the Alien Acts, and thought that no ground existed at present for granting any of an extraordinary nature. The reason for which those Acts were originally passed was, to obviate the injury that might result from Aliens endeavouring to propagate in this country sentiments and principles subversive of good order, and hostile to the Government; but surely such apprehensions could not be seriously entertained at the present period. If Aliens transgressed the ordinary criminal laws of the realm, those laws were equal
 [656
 Mr. Bathurst  said, he had not entered into details upon the subject, because he did not think that the necessity of the Bill would be doubted at the present crisis. It was not at all impossible that persons might be sent from France to this country, or to Ireland, to estrange the population and weaken its allegiance. The principle of the Bill had already been several times recognised by Parliament.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that it was impossible for ministers to state particular cases, when they came to the House for a measure like the present; such conduct would defeat the very object in view.
 Mr. Bathurst  remonstrated, observing that such a proceeding could only cause useless delay. The measure could be debated in its future stages.
 Mr. Bathurst , after a few words upon the number of Aliens at present in this country, and the necessity of arming ministers with further powers, moved for leave to bring in a Bill to provide further regulations respecting aliens.
 Mr. Dennis Browne  said, that while a Jacobin government, assisted by an over-whelmning military power, existed in France, the ministers should be armed with extraordinary powers relative to aliens. Such, he feared, would be particularly necessary in Ireland, from the feelings too prevalent in that kingdom. He thought that if the Alien Act did not resist in Ireland, the hon. gentleman who spoke last would have to ask other questions relative to that country than he found necessary at present.
 Mr. Horner  inquired, whether the right hon. gentleman meant to relinquish the assessed taxes, as well as to renew the property tax?
 Mr. Addington  thought that no case had been made out to warrant the interference of the House, with the exercise of the judicial authority.
 Mr. R. Ward  said, that if the hon. gentleman took advantage of the then state of the House merely for the sake of a delay of 24 or perhaps 48 hours, he would prove himself the greatest friend of ministers by such a proceeding.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that if he should prove a friend to the present ministers, it vests more than he intended to be.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that in order to have the matter more fully explained upon a future day, he should divide the House.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the right hon. gentleman had talked of the measure being necessary in the present situation of the country; but neither he nor any of his Majesty's ministers could inform the House what that situation was. He bad uniformly opposed the Alien Acts, thinking them the instruments of great abuse and cruelty. He was sure that minister; had been imposed upon frequently, and that they had paid money to emigrants who were holding correspondence will the enemy, while they sent innocent foreigners out of the country. Most probably upon this Government in a great degree depended the question of peace o war—the Continent would be guided by it; but before such a question was deter mined, it seemed to him a litte too early to bring in a Bill for the regulation o aliens, that war only could justify. He denied that there was any danger that the minds of the people of Ireland would be corrupted by aliens, or that ministers bat not adequate means of meeting such a evil without this Bill.
 Mr. Whitbread  indicated his intention of persevering. With regard to what the hon. gentleman opposite had said upon the Jacobin Government of France, all be (Mr. W.) could observe in reply was, that the Congress of Vienna had been an arch-manufacturer of Jacobins.
 Mr. Whitbread  asked whether, under any circumstances of the country, the right hon. Gentleman meant to propose the renewal of the property tax? Did he mean to say that the revival of that measure would not depend upon any political arrangements that might be effected?
 Sir Samuel Romilly  rose, in pursuance of notice to move, That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, a copy of the Report to his royal highness the Prince Regent, by the Recorder of London, of the case of Robert Lathrop Murray, tried for bigamy at the Old Bailey in January last." The case of this unfortunate gentleman had been already detailed, at various times, to the House and the public, and no person had ventured to contradict the statement. It was one by no means aggravated in its circumstances, but which had been visited by the severest punishment it was possible to inflict. The prisoner had petitioned his Majesty's Government to permit him to transport himself to any place out of his Majesty's dominions; but even this had been refused him—while many others, convicted of the crime of bigamy, under cases much more aggravated, were pu-
 [654
 Sir Samuel Romilly , in reply, contended, that the case under consideration was one of peculiar hardship, and therefore one in which the interference of the House was loudly called for.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that no Bill like the present could be effectual for its object, if it did not arm the Government with powers which might be abused; but the liability to abuse ought to be compared with the danger which it was intended to prevent. The first Alien Act had been introduced in a period of peace, 1792, when we stood in the same relation to France as we did at present. It was at a moment like the present, of all others, when the country was not in the full vigour of its strength, when it was making preparations, and when it was important to prevent the enemy from obtaining such information as might enable them to thwart our measures, if these preparations ended in war, that it became necessary to take every precaution respecting the persons entering this kingdom. By the present Act we could not prevent improper persons from landing; we could only reach those persons by an operose process, Ministers would be deficient in their duty if they did not bring forward a measure like the present at this crisis.
 Mr. Barkam  prefaced his motion on this subject with a speech of some length. He congratulated the friends of humanity on the death-blow which, in his opinion, this traffic had received by the Declaration of the Congress. In this situation, it became our duty, he said, not to relax in our efforts for its destruction, but to show that as we had been its roost early, so were we its most sincere and zealous
 [658 l
 Mr. A. Browne  mentioned a proof of disinterestedness given by the legislature of Antigua. As soon as they found that in consequence of the Treaty of Paris the Slave-trade would be revived in the French islands, and that a facility would thus be given to elude the laws in the British colonies, the two Houses of that island came to a Resolution, declaring their willingness to concur in any laws which might be thought necessary to be introduced there for the more effectual discovery and punishment of those who violated the Abolition Act.
 Mr. Bathurst  re-stated the arguments made use of by him on the preceding evening, when moving for leave to bring in a Bill to provide further regulations respecting aliens, which motion was then lost from the thin-ness of the House. He now moved, "That leave be given to bring in a Bill to repeal an Act passed in the last session of Parliament, for establishing regulations
 659]
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that, in his opinion, the Alien Bills from the beginning down to the present day, were a blot on the Statute-book of the country. In two instances of late, the powers of the Alien Act had been abused by those Ministers to whom these powers were entrusted. He alluded to the cases of M. de Berenger, and of M. Correia. Nothing but the danger which the country was supposed to be in from French fraternization, could ever have induced the Legislature to entrust such powers to the Government as were given in the first Alien Act; but no person then contemplated that such a measure would be continued in times of peace. The right hon. gentleman had not assumed the knowledge of the situation in which the country was at present placed. He was sure that the country in general did not know that situation, and that the House knew as little. The power at present vested in Ministers was very ample; they could take measures for ordering all suspected persons out of the country, and if they did not obey that order, imprison them; the names of all who entered this country were registered; masters of ships were liable to penalties who concealed any persons from the knowledge of the Alien Office; and, upon the whole, there were, he conceived, provisions in the present Alien Act amply sufficient to guard against the possibility of any danger from aliens. It had not been stated that there were any persons at present in this country from whom the executive was in danger; and therefore he objected to the vesting Ministers with such powers as might be made the instrument of the grossest oppression against the subjects of other countries. It had lately come to light that Government had delegated the powers vested in them by this Act to the agents of this country abroad; and it had thus been made the instrument of most grievous oppression to certain Spanish subjects, whose arrival atone time would have been hailed in this country, and who at another time were delivered up to the tyranny of Ferdinand 7, and to all the cruelty and injustice of the government carried on by him. It was the same with regard to the Italians. He was of opinion, therefore, that the necessity for the Bill ought to be
 [660
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the House a short time ago had accepted of an advance of three millions from the Bank for one year without payment of any interest; and he certainly considered that that advance had taken place on the faith of the same system relative to the management of the public debt being continued till April 1816. Till that time the House could not, consistently with their engagement, whatever they might think of the economy of the transaction, open a bargain which they had so lately sanctioned. If the hon. gentleman wished the papers for which he had moved, for the sake of laying information before the House to enable them to make a better bargain in future, there was no necessity for this at present, as there was sufficient time in the course of the next session. It was to be borne in mind that the accounts were very voluminous, and could not begot ready soon. His hon. friend had unintentionally thrown a false colouring on the balances in the hands of the Bank; the great balk of these balances arose from the payments to the Consolidated Fund; and this could not be interfered with without violating the compact with the public creditor. This was by far the most considerable part of the balance. From the great increase of the public expenditure, it was natural to presume that the balances at the Bank would increase proportionally; but this had by no means been the case, and it depended very much on the heads of branches whether they would allow large balances at the Bank which should be unprofitable to the public. The balances had arisen, for the most part however, from acts of parliament over which Government had no controul; and to interfere with this subject would be to derange the whole system of public credit. With respect to the profits which the Bank had been supposed to have derived under the restrictions, and which had so often been discussed in that House, it was
 [666
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained, that he did not consider himself at liberty to withdraw the balance, nor to vary the manner in which the business was carried on. But he had no objection to adopt any suggestion calculated to lessen the balance. On the contrary, every means had already been adopted to effect that purpose.
 Mr. Ponsonby  was not sure that he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Did he merely object to the production of the accounts on that day, or at any period of the present session? If he only wished to fix another day, then he should have no objection to agree to his proposal. But if he should intend to postpone it to another session, then he should think it his duty to offer a few observations. He then read the clause which engaged that no alteration should take place in the mode of transacting the business, and that the balances should not be withdrawn. There was no other restrictive clause to prevent Parliament from exercising its own judgment on that subject. Undoubtedly for a fixed period, it had no right to interfere with the existing arrangements; neither was it the intention of his hon. friend, nor his own, nor that of any person in the House, to go in opposition to the pledge given. One of the objections to the production of the accounts at this period, was their being voluminous, and that it would require much time to make up one's mind on the subject. If the right hon. gentleman had spoken in favour of the motion, he could not have used a stronger argument; as since the papers were voluminous, and would require much time for consideration, the sooner they should be produced, the greater would be the opportunity for investigation. The right hon. gentleman had not pointed out any inconvenience likely to result either to the public service or to the Bank of England, from acquiescing with the motion. He did not consider Parliament
 [668 l
 Mr. Marryat  said, it was not the first time in his life he had observed how very differently men acted in their individual characters, and as members of a corporation; in the first capacity he had often found them frank, liberal, and obliging; and in the latter he had as often found them unaccommodating, narrow, and disobliging. He could not help thinking, that the apprehension shown lest the papers moved for should be produced, at least proved that a very undue consideration was paid to the Bank of England for the management of the public concerns. Any gentleman could find private bankers to manage his money concerns, without any charge or any other advantage being derived by the bankers than the use of the balance left in his hands; the greater the transactions the greater was the profit; and therefore the immensity of the transactions was of the greatest advantage to the Bank on the banking principle. It was stated, that by a different system of management, 400,000 l l 669]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the questions of the hon. gentleman had in view one of two objects—he wished either to learn whether the notice of his right hon. friend was one which the House ought to entertain; or he was desirous of calling on them to discuss subjects not then before them, and to give some opinion on various topics connected with the foreign relations of the country. With respect to the first object, it was a matter of discretion with the House, whether the committee should go into an investigation of the necessity of resorting to the Property-tax, with reference to the general state of the country, and to the question of war or preparation for war. It was here to be considered, whether a case was to be laid before Parliament sufficient to justify the adoption of the measure which his right hon. friend intended to propose to them. Now, as to the first difficulty which the hon. gentleman appeared to feel, with reference to the conduct of his right hon. friend, it might very easily be removed. His right hon. friend, in stating the reasons which induced him to abandon the Property-tax, namely, that, in the then state of Europe, he did not think the country called for the continuance of that measure, although it would be necessary to devise some efficient taxes, did not go to the length the hon. gentleman had described. The hon. gentleman passed over this very rapidly. He argued, because his right hon. friend
 of his Majesty the King of Naples, have had the honour of addressing to his excellency my lord viscount Castlereagh, principal Secretary of State of hit Britannic Majesty, for Foreign Affairs, an official Note, dated the 29th of December last, soliciting the conclusion of the definitive 673] peace between the Crowns of Naples and Great Britain. "His excellency my lord Castlereagh was so good as to assure the undersigned first plenipotentiary of his Neapolitan Majesty, that he would occupy himself with the object of that note. It has nevertheless remained to this day without any result. "Although the King cannot but be keenly affected by this silence, from the eagerness with which he is desirous of entering into more intimate relations with England, he has too much dependence on the sincerity and justice of the English Government, to allow him to doubt for a moment of its fidelity in fulfilling the engagements which it has contracted towards him. "If all those reasons which the undersigned urged in their note of the 29th of December last, required to be corroborated by others still more powerful, they might recall to his excellency my lord Castlereagh, the Convention which he proposed at Troyes, with the three other principal coalesced Powers, by which the Britannic Government, recognising the political existence of the King of Naples, solicited an indemnity in favour of the King of Sicily, as an indemnification for the kingdom of Naples. "Austria, Russia, and Prussia, adhered by separate acts of accession, stipulated at Troyes, the 15th February, 1814, to that Convention which has irrevocably consecrated the principle of the political existence of the King of Naples. "It belonged next to the Powers, in whose hands were all the disposable countries conquered from the enemy, to find and to proportion the indemnity to be given to the King of Sicily. "His Neapolitan Majesty could concur no otherwise in this than by his good offices, and he has fulfilled on this point [674 the engagements which he contracted by his Treaty of Alliance of the 11th January, 1814, the undersigned having declared by the note which they have had the honour of addressing to his excellency my lord Castlereagh, under date of the 29th December last, that they were ready to concur in the arrangements which might be proposed for that effect. "Thus, under whatever point of view the Britannic Government wishes to view its position with regard to the King of Naples, it can only consider as just and reasonable the demand which the undersigned are charged with reiterating to his excellency, my lord Castlereagh, of proceeding to the prompt conclusion of a definitive Treaty of Peace between the two Crowns. "No person can be better qualified than my lord Castlereagh to enlighten the English Government with respect to the affairs of Naples. Having concurred in the negociation which preceded and which followed the accession of his Neapolitan Majesty to the coalition, he was the organ of the engagements entered into by the English Government towards the Court of Naples, and his character for justice and probity is too well known to allow the undersigned to suppose that his political conduct will vary in any manner; and they are certain that he will support in London the engagements which he contracted in the name of his Government towards the King of Naples, as well as the promises and verbal declarations made by him during the last campaign of the coalesced armies, and principally at Chaumont and Dijon. "The undersigned beseech his excellency my lord Castlereagh to accept the assurances of their very high consideration. (Signed) "The Prince de GARIATI." 675]
 Mr. Ponsonby  expressed his surprise at hearing the noble lord quote the authority of a distinguished individual whose memory was cherished, and whose opinions were venerated by many of the oldest members of the House. It might be true, that Mr. Fox would have objected to premature disclosures by the Executive Government; but did the noble lord mean to assert that where no injury to the public service was apparent, and where erroneous and derogatory opinions might be formed of the conduct of an individual, without
 [676
 Lord Castlereagh  did not mean to assert that in no case ought the instructions of Government to be produced to Parliament; what he had protested against was, the doctrine that they ought to be published whenever a member thought it necessary to call for them. Mr. Fox had contended for the general principle, that Government ought not without important reasons to be called upon to make disclosures that might be injurious to the public interest. His lordship was ready to allow that cases might arise where it appeared that ministers had acted criminally or improperly, when it would be fit that instructions should be laid before Parliament; but in this case the cause assigned was to be balanced against the positive inconvenience and impolicy.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  complained of this mode of putting such a question. He would, in reply, merely say, that he was not then prepared to state what the sum was which would be necessary for the service of the sister kingdom, and of course it would be premature for him to enter into the particulars of its exposition.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  expressed his hope that the only individual in that House who supposed he had remained totally silent, was the only one who drew the same inference which the hon. baronet proclaimed.
 Mr. R. Martin  concurred with the hon. baronet in his opinion of the inability of Ireland to bear this tax.
 Sir Francis Burdett  took that opportunity of protesting against the renewal of the Property-tax, as to the equality and justice of which he entertained very different ideas from the hon. gentleman who had preceded him. Before any such measure was proposed, the petitions with which the table had been loaded should be referred to a committee, to inquire into the allegations of grievances which they contained. It was demonstrated by those petitions, not only that the Property-tax had been productive of numberless cases of individual oppression, but that it was in principle unjust, and that it was, in fact, a tax not on property but on income, and that it had been submitted to, when first imposed, as a temporary contribution to be paid, perhaps, for one year only, as the expectations at that time, as to the speedy termination of the contest, were very sanguine. But he was persuaded that if this tax was again laid on, it would never be taken off. Not only was the tax unjust and unequal in itself, but it was brought forward under every disadvantage, because, up to the present moment, there was no information as to the state in which the country was. The House was first called on to give the money, and they were afterwards to be informed as to what was to be done with it. This was so improper and so unparliamentary a line of conduct, that he could not agree to support any such grant. It was important to the country to know, in the first place, what was the real state of our relations, and not to be satisfied with the strange ambiguity of expression of the noble lord which was perfectly incomprehensible. The noble lord talked, for instance, of the country being in a 'mixed state.' What did this mean? Would it not be a more manly way of proceeding, at once to avow that they must be involved in war? He hoped the House would not suffer itself to be plunged into a war of which they could not foresee the termination, but which they could not doubt would be full of calamity, and would impose on the already over-laden people, burthens which could with difficulty be borne, and which, it was his opinion, should not be borne, if we were engaged in such a contest, for causes which, in the present dearth of information, had been related in that House or
 [682
 Mr. Bennet  opposed the motion, as he thought the renewal of the Property-tax was the first step to war; it was a demand of the ministers on the public for money to enable them to go to war. Whatever were his feelings towards the unfortunate family which had been driven from the throne of France, he could not consent to embark the blood and treasure of this country in so hopeless a contest as that, the object of which should be to restore them. The noble lord had refused to give any answer to the question respecting the authenticity of the intelligence that the King of Naples had entered Bologna, that the whole of that part of Italy was in a state of insurrection, and that the Austrians were flying before him. If it was the intention of the King of Naples to erect Italy into one great and free state, he had his most earnest wishes on his side. He should exult to see that the plans of the Congress of Vienna had been defeated—he should exult to learn that Genoa had been freed from the grasp of those to whom it was delivered over—that Venice was rescued from those who now unjustly possessed it. As voting the Property-tax would be to afford the Government the means of plunging the country into an unnecessary war, he should oppose the present motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had neglected to anticipate many of the objections which had been made to the tax, because he had conceived the motion before the House to be a motion of course. Many of the arguments on the other side of the House proceeded on the supposition that the tax was a step in support of a war:—the grant of the tax would in fact only be a grant in support of their Address; and he called on the House, in the words of that Address, to grant, "with zeal and alacrity," the sum required to support the preparations which had been: made either for war or armed defence. If the right hon. gentleman who spoke last doubted whether the return of Buonaparté was a calamity, he was among the very few persons who were in that state of
 687] [688
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, in explanation, that as it would be only proposed for a year, he thought it the best way to take the tax purely and simply as it stood before its expiration.
 Mr. Charles Grant,  jun. thought it was evident that a great change had taken place in the public opinion respecting this tax. He had heard a great deal of protesting that night on the subject, and he would also enter his protest, which would be against the injustice of making a motion for referring the Property-tax to a committee of ways and means into the medium, of a personal attack upon the noble lord. Was it decent to anticipate the day of his trial, as it was called, and
 691]
 Mr. Marryat  contended, that the tax would fall with unusual severity on the commercial members of the country. He strongly deprecated the conduct of the assessors, who had nothing else to do than to pry into every man's affairs to find where they could make surcharges. Hoping, however, that some modifications would be adopted, he should support the motion; but he also hoped that the public would not in future be left without some mode of appeal. He trusted that ministers would use every endeavour to preserve peace that was consistent with the honour and safety of the country, otherwise they would take upon themselves a most awful responsibility. But while the question remained undecided, he would agree that the country ought to be put in the most complete state of defence; and on this ground he should vote for the motion.
 Mr. Western  took the opportunity then offered of giving his most decided opposition to the Property-tax in any shape. He would at all times refuse his assent to a measure founded on such unjust principles. It was a tax that ought never to be resorted to again. If we took one-tenth from the productiveness of the commercial, the manufacturing, and the agricultural interests, we took one-tenth from the general productiveness of the country itself. He should, therefore, oppose the motion.
 Mr. Dickenson  declared his conviction, that the condition of property in this country had undergone such a change, that the people had not now the same power to pay the Property-tax as they possessed some time since, and this clearly appeared from the evidence adduced before the Corn Committee. How, indeed, could the people be supposed so capable so paying taxes now that prices had fallen, as when those prices were high and the country generally prosperous? It must have been from this consideration that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had abandoned the proposition for laying additional taxes on windows and on wine, because, in fact, there was no surplus property to pay such taxes. Still the hon. member expressed his intention to vote for the motion; but he hoped the
 693]
 Mr. Rose  agreed, that in voting for the late Address to the Prince Regent, the House was not pledged to this or to any specific measure of finance; but this appeared to him, as he had uniformly said, the best tax that could be devised—better by far than any tax upon consumption; for the public always paid more to the latter, and the Treasury received less; while all the produce of the former came into the Treasury. As to the capacity of the people to pay the tax, he declared his surprise at the statement of the hon. gentleman who spoke last upon the subject of property; and the House must participate in that surprise, when it was recollected, that all the surveyors examined before the Corn Committee unanimously slated, that the value of properly had doubled within the last twenty years, sixteen years of which the Property-tax had been enacted. But the obligations conferred upon the country by this tax were most important: and he was persuaded, that had the nature of this tax been explained to the people at their meetings some time ago, they would have come to a very different resolution than to petition for its repeal, especially if it had been impressed upon their minds, that the repeal of that tax must be followed by the imposition of other taxes perhaps more grievous, while certainly not by any means so productive; for instance, the additional assessed taxes would be much more vexatious to nine out of ten than the Property-tax, while many who paid from 500 l l [694
 Mr. Whithread  observed, that although the value of property had advanced within twenty years, as stated by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Rose), that value had notoriously fallen of late years, and that fall had been assigned as a main argument for the Corn Bill. Therefore the condition of property had been truly described by the hon. member for Somersetshire. It had been slated, that war might not take place; but if it even should not, he had no doubt that this tax once imposed, would be saddled upon the country for ever—[No, no! from the Ministerial side]. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, however, had said, that he should find it difficult, if not impossible, to propose a less exceptionable tax; but this was telling people, that if they desired the removal of a blister, they should have a caustic; and if the right hon. gentleman could so succeed in reconciling the public to the Property-tax, he would evince a degree of cunning from which he might flatter himself with being placed by posterity upon the same shelf with the noble lord near him. The hon. member contended that there was no necessity for war; that, on the contrary, we might remain at peace, and should soon, at least in two or three years, see that the country could preserve peace without an expensive armament to defend it; for he ridiculed the disgraceful alarm which appeared to be excited in ministers and their allies by the intellect of one man. The Income-tax, he said, would produce 14 millions at the utmost; and in the first instance, according to the Treaty of Chaumont, we were to pay five millions to the Allies for one year's subsidy; and it was even rumoured that we were to give nine millions to the coalesced Powers, to stimulate
 [696
 Lord Castlereagh , rose and replied to Mr. Whitbread in a tone of considerable animation. He observed that the hon. member had found it more convenient to discuss the question on an assumption of his own, than upon any rational foundation. If, instead of opposing the Speaker's leaving the Chair, he had permitted him to leave it, he would have found that his right hon. friend, instead of intending to propose the renewal of the Property-tax in perpetuity, whether in the alternative of war or peace, would only have proposed it for one year. If we were to make preparations of defence, he trusted that there was no gentleman in the House who would not feel that it was necessary to show to Europe, that Parliament was ready to arm the Executive Government with all requisite power. If they felt that we could live on such terms with the person at the head of the French Government as should not place us within the reach of the strong arm which he possessed, then it might be said that on preparations were superfluous; but if they were of a contrary opinion, then they would use their own discretion in enabling the Executive to provide proper means of security. Alluding to certain pointed sarcasms of the hon. gentleman, which he had thrown out in the course of the evening, the noble lord observed, that if he was only to be taunted by the hon. member respecting information, he trusted the House would feel that he should best consult their and his own dignity by remaining silent, and not suffering himself to be provoked. In spite of all the taunts an prophecies of the hon. gentleman, ministers had carried the country triumphantly through a war, of which the hon. member had professed his despair of ever being brought to a successful issue, an had even feared lest the liberties of this country might be laid at the feet of this 'great man' who ruled the destinies of the Continent. It was a proud thing to say while the people of England were making such vast sacrifices, that the result of the
 697]
 Mr. Ponsonby  expressed his conviction that if the Property-tax was revived, there would be few persons in that House or out of it, who would live to see it taken off. It would be a part of the peace system, the same as the Bank Restriction Act had become, and which was likely to continue for some generations. He would defy any man to propose such modifications in the Property-tax as could make it acceptable. It never could be collected without giving persons powers that were incompatible with a free constitution. It was an encouragement and provocative to war; and it would not produce a sum any thing equal to what the House would soon be called upon to vote. Would not the minister have to call on Parliament for a large loan? Then why not take, for any temporary emergency, a portion of that loan, and wait till events were known that would prove whether the Property-tax was necessary or not? He thought the noble lord had complained of what had been said in the present and former debates without reason. For himself, he would not wait for that day when the noble lord should think proper to afford his own justification. The right hon. gentleman then animadverted upon the documents which lately appeared in the Morning Chronicle, with respect to the proceedings of Congress. If those letters were to be considered as authentic instruments, he should have no hesitation in saying of the one from Prince Talleyrand, that it was a Jesuitical contrivance to get rid of engagements which had been entered into, be-
 [698
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should not follow the right hon. gentleman in the various topics upon which he had touched, but confine himself merely to the question then before the House; and in order to show the right hon. gentleman that his fears of the Property-tax being imposed for ever, if it should be now agreed to, were groundless, he would read one sentence from the motion, which he intended to submit to the committee. [This sentence was, that the several duties on the profits of all property, professions, trades, and offices, be revived and granted for the term of one year, to commence from the 5th of April 1815.] As to the insinuation that ministers would never want a pretext for continuing the tax, unless the right hon. gentleman could point out in the history of this country, circumstances that were analogous to those which now existed, he did not think he was justified in that assertion. The House and the country, however, were in a
 699]
 Mr. Fremantle  voted for the amendment, because he thought the delay would be in no manner prejudicial, but, on the contrary, would satisfy the House and the country, by showing that all undue precipitation was avoided.
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  said, he considered the Property-tax, under certain modifications, the best that could be devised to provide for the exigencies of the country: and that while it would be much more productive, it would be less vexatious than the proposed addition to the assessed taxes. But under any other plan of taxation than that under discussion, it appeared to him impossible to make men contribute according to their means, to the wants of the state. He himself knew a fund-holder, whose stock was worth 300,000 l l
 Mr. Barclay  thought that Buonaparté had only been replaced, on the throne by a soldiery eager for bloodshed and rapine, and who had placed him there because they expected nothing but peace from the Bourbons. This state of things required the most vigorous preparations, whether for war or peace; and seeing no other means for supporting such preparations, he should give his hearty support to the measure. He was glad to understand that the Chancellor of the Exchequer meant to propose some modifications of the tax; and he should be happy to contribute towards such an object, as he was convinced that the tax had become so very obnoxious chiefly on account of the mode of its collection.
 Mr. Harvey  thought, that if it was necessary to bring forward this tax again, the House, in its wisdom, should so modify it, as to render it quite different from what it was at present. By due alterations he had no doubt of its becoming the most agreeable as well as beneficial measure of taxation that had ever been proposed. It ought not to be tolerated that people with large estates that were to descend to their heirs, should pay no more than those whose income was derived from their talents and industry. The profits of trade and annuities ought not to be taxed in the manner they had been.
 Mr. Protheroe  differed from the two hon. gentlemen who had preceded him. He thought that to the Property-tax we were indebted for the vigour with which we had been able to carry on the late
 683]
 Mr. Tierney  said, that he could not let the opportunity pass, without protesting against the renewal of the Property-tax, totally uninformed as he was as to the state of the country, with regard to its foreign relations. Whatever his opinion might be, if war was determined on, he could not, unadvised as he and every other person in the House was, on the question of war or peace, assent to the imposition on the people of this country of an oppressive tax, which was never justifiable but by the extreme exigency of the time at which it was imposed, and which was most hateful to the people of the country. The proposition, too, for the renewal of the tax had been made without one word being assigned as a ground for it. They did not at all know what the exigencies of the country were. All he knew was, that if, we were not at peace, it was our own fault. As to the renewal of this tax, he could not consent to be guided by the Congress. Prince Metternich and Prince Talleyrand were not to mete oat the property of this country. Of this the House might be sure, whatever they resolved on,
 [684 685] l [686
 Mr. Tierney  explained. He had not expressed a doubt whether the return of Buonaparté was calamitous or not; but had merely said, that whether the return of that man to power was or was not a calamity, was not then the question before the House.
 Mr. Tierney  wished it to be understood, that in voting for the amendment, he should not hold himself precluded from proposing farther delay, if within a fornight the House should not be in possession of adequate information upon this important subject.
 Mr. Tierney  asked, what possible objection there could be to immediate inquiry? The more documents the House had before them, the better judgment they would be enabled to form upon the subject. The only person who could be supposed to have any desire to defer the investigation was the Governor of the Bank; but no reasons had been urged by him for delaying the inquiry.
 Mr. Bankes  said, that provided the accounts should be laid before the House in sufficient time to allow a full consideration of the subject before making any fresh bargain with the Bank, it was immaterial whether they should be ordered this day or at a future time; but if the House should not be allowed sufficient time for the examination of this subject, the public might receive an injury which by a proper investigation might have been avoided. Did the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer conceive that the public were precluded from adopting a new plan, by which the balances might not be withdrawn, but by which they might be lessened? If he did, there was the more reason for having the accounts before them, that fell consideration might be given to the matter, before making again such an imprudent bargain; and that when they became free agents, they might suggest some more economical mode of conducting the public business. Perhaps if the different branches had the power of drawing from the one to the other, the balances might upon the whole be considerably diminished; and if, instead of keeping up a continual balance of 11 millions, by any such mode the balance could be reduced to six millions, would they be precluded by the engagement with the Bank from, acting upon it? Were they not only to keep their accounts with the Bank, but to keep up the balances to nearly the same amount? If such was the case, they might, indeed, not be at liberty to adopt any alteration at present; but that was no reason why they should not see how the matter stood, that if they had made an improvident bargain, they might see that they did not in future fall into the same inconvenience. It must be desirable in the present state of the country, that the House should endeavour to use every possible economy. The Bank had derived great advantages from its connexion with the Government, and the country had also derived great advantages from the Bank: they ought not to look on the interests of the Bank and the country as adverse; but they were guardians of the public money,
 667]
 Mr. Bankes  begged to state the circumstances under which he would at present give his support to the motion. He was desirous of giving Government every assistance which the exigencies of the country demanded, and he knew no tax in its principle less oppressive and unequal than the Property-tax. Looking, however, to the present, not as the continuance of an old plan, but the beginning of a new system of taxation, he would not give it his unqualified consent, unless it received some modification in its details and more particularly if it merely applied to one part of the United Kingdom, and was open to the intolerable injustice of excluding Ireland from hearing a proportion of the burthen. Such an exemp-
 681]
 Lord Lascelles  said, that he should be sorry, if in the present state of Europe, that House were to show any backwardness in preparing for defence or for war, according as either might be necessary; and he should be sorry also to think that the Government was at all influenced by those insidious communications which had been made to it by the French Government. He should not vote for the motion on the supposition that giving the Property-tax would be an inducement for going to war, but because an injury would be done to the public interests, if means were not provided for an adequate defence in the first instance, and for war itself should it become necessary.
 Mr. H. Martin  said, the Property-tax had been found so universally oppressive, that there was not a person to be found out of that House who did not object to its revival; and the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was very little calculated to change their opinion. The right hon. gentleman had not dealt fairly by the House or the public, if when he asked for the votes of the army extraordinaries, he had it in contemplation to meet them with the Property-tax. If a strict and regular economy had been introduced into every branch of the public expenditure, this shocking scourge might have been avoided. He should not content himself with voting against the tax as it was now proposed; but in all its future stages he should deem it his duty to oppose it, and throw every possible impediment in its way.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  said, that he should not oppose the renewal of this tax, if adequate measures were taken to provide against the vexation so justly complained of in the mode of collection.
 Mr. Calcraft  observed, that the return of Buonaparté to France undoubtedly rendered it necessary to have the peace establishment of this country higher than when we were looking to an establishment of peace for a series of years. Even in that happy time, if it bad occurred, he was of opinion that a modified Property-tax would have been better to meet the exigencies of the period than the taxes proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But yet, if it was now to be revived, he would endeavour to get many parts of it modified, as he had ever thought it in some points to be the most unjust, most cruel, and inquisitorial measure that ever was imposed on the greater portion of the people. He would cordially agree as to the necessity of putting the country into a state of the most effective defence; but every man must know that the sums that were necessary could not be produced except by the Property-tax. On voting, however, for the motion, he was not bound to support the measure as it now stood.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  expressed his opinion that it was not necessary now to go into the question of adopting this tax. It was a tax most insulting to the sense and feelings of the country, and unless the greatest emergency could be made out for its revival, the people had no right to submit to it. All minds, however, were agreed as to the necessity of adopting a state of defensive preparation; but though he had given his vote for this purpose, on the occasion of the army extraordinaries he did not think that a case had been made out which required the revival of this, obnoxious tax. The question was, whether it was to remain as long as Buonaparté
 689]
 Mr. Grenfell  after requesting the indulgence of the House while he explained the grounds of the motion which he was about to make said, that he should confine his observations strictly to those transactions of the Bank of England, in which the public had a direct interest. With the private transactions of the Bank, except under very peculiar circumstances, Parliament had nothing to do; but where the public were one party, and the Bank another, it was the bounden duty of Parliament satisfactorily to investigate the terms of the compact. The first of these transactions to which he wished to call the attention of the House was the deposit of the public money in the Bank of England, the Bank thus acting as the bankers of the public
 661] [662 l l l 663] l l l l l l [664 665]
 Mr. Methuen  said, that in giving his vote for the motion, he did so from a conviction in his own mind, that whenever the present state of things in France should cease, the tax would cease also.
 Mr. Whitbread  denied that he had ever called Buonaparté a great man in the sense conveyed by the noble lord; but if a man were to shine by comparison—[cries of Spoke! spoke!]
 Mr. Whitbread  hoped, that the same latitude of explanation would he allowed to him that had been given to the noble lord. It was not correct to assert that he had drawn a desponding view of the finances
 677] [678 679]
 Mr. Whitbread  rose and observed, that it was but a very short time since the table of that House was covered with Petitions, praying that the Property Tax might not be renewed; and the right hon. gentleman took an early opportunity—forestalling the public, as it were, from coming before Parliament with their petitions—of declaring his intention to abandon that most obnoxious measure. He afterwards brought forward various financial plans, and several new taxes, which were adopted by the House in the shape in which they were proposed by him. Every one of these was, it now ap-
 [670 671] * * Note from the Plenipotentiaries of his Majesty the King of Naples, to lord Castlereagh, dated Vienna, 11th February, 1815. "The undersigned Ministers, Plenipotentiaries [672
 Mr. Brand  thought any discussion of the merits of the Property-tax as premature at present as the proposition itself. This proposition he considered as premature because no necessity was made out for the re-enactment of such an inquisitorial measure. Such necessity, then, not appearing, and in the absence of every information, there was nothing to satisfy the House that the present exigency of affairs might not be temporary: and therefore he could not at once vote for the imposition of a tax upon the country to meet such an exigency; he should rather have the necessities of the occasion provided for by a Vote of Credit. At present it was problematical whether we should engage in war or remain at peace, and until that problem was solved he could not accede to this tax; which, however, he was ready to acknowledge, was the best system of taxation (under certain modifications) that could be devised for a state of war, if war should be unavoidable. But until matters should be more matured than they were at present—until ministers should be able to lay some information before the House, to show that necessity called for such an extraordinary supply; and that we must engage in war for the maintenance of our honour, or for the attainment of a secure peace, he could not consistently vote for this motion; and therefore he should propose an amendment, viz. "That this debate be adjourned till this day fortnight, the 3rd of May next."
 Mr. T. Foley  seconded this proposition, and strongly contended, that without any information to show the necessity of the case, the House should not consent to impose a tax of 13 or 14 millions a year upon this already overburthened country. 695]
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he fully agreed with that great majority of his constituents, who had instructed him to vote against this Property-tax, in whatever shape its renewal might be proposed. Under whatever modifications that were likely to be imposed, the Property-tax would be highly objectionable. Yet he was firmly of opinion, that such alterations might be adopted as would render it the most just and profitable of any that ever was suggested. A mode ought to be devised of levying it free from those inquisitions tinder which the public had so long laboured. But he had never heard that there existed in the minds of the gentlemen who had proposed the tax, the smallest idea of adopting such modifications; because they said, that they would militate against its productiveness. The present mode of collecting it, however, was not only inquisitorial but unconstitutional. All classes of property ought not to be equally pressed upon, as was now the case. This, which was called a property tax, was in fact, no property tax, because it fell with equal weight upon a
 [692
 Sir Frederick Flood  begged to take that opportunity of stating, that a considerable agitation prevailed in Ireland relative to the Property-tax. He would therefore ask the Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer,
 [680
 Sir F. Flood  was sorry that, from the total silence of the right hon. gentleman [A laugh], and from his having given no satisfactory answer to his question, he was compelled to infer that the tax was intended for Ireland. Every other tax was met by that country, and the Hearth one besides: nothing could, therefore, be more unfair than in her depressed state to make such a claim.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  took this early opportunity of entering his protest against this obnoxious measure. He always considered that this tax had been laid on for the defence of the country. We were not now at war, though from the noble lord's expressions he had room to fear that it was determined we should not be long without it. However, we were yet at peace; and while we were, he did not see why we should have this oppressive measure. The individual now at the head of the government of France had proposed terms for the continuance of peace; and if those terms were fair and honourable to us, he could not think that the country ought to be oppressed with this unequal and inquisitorial tax, merely for the purpose of forcing the Bourbons on the throne of France. He certainly thought it fit that the country should be always placed in a state of security; but a strict and rigid economy was the best way to place her in this state. It was afflicting to hear of this grievous tax being proposed, immediately after the House had learned that the expenses of the Civil List exceeded the estimate last year by half a million.
 Lord Milton  said, that though he was the last man who would pin his faith upon the good faith of the present ruler of France, yet, at the same time we ought
 [700
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that he had the less regret at not being present when the right hon. baronet commenced his address to the House, as it was not his intention to oppose his proposition. He did not now mean to offer any opinion upon the various points alluded to by the right hon. baronet; but upon the principle which had formerly been adopted by the House, he should not oppose the motion for leave to bring in the Bill. He begged, however, to observe, that with regard to the office held by a noble lord (the earl of Buckinghamshire) to which the right hon. Baronet
 [710
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, he should defer the general observations which he should have to make upon this subject, until the hon. gentleman's motion came regularly before the House. But that his opinion might not be mistaken, and to allay the anxiety which such a proposition was calculated to excite in Ireland, he thought it right to state, that however respectable the quarter might be from which that proposition came, he had at present no intention of recommending the adoption of the Property-tax in Ireland. He wished, however, to remind the House, that the application of that tax to Great Britain was only proposed for one year, and under circumstances which would not justify him in now proposing it for the sister country, even if he were prepared to go the full length of the hon. gentleman's opinion. The hon. gentleman would recollect that even in this country, where the habits of society were so different from those of Ireland, and where the wealth was so much greater, it was a long time before that tax was made fully productive, and before the machinery which was to enforce its collection could be perfected. If great difficulties had been found in England, much greater would undoubtedly be found in Ireland. He declined, however, entering into the argument at present, and should content himself with stating, that under the present circumstances, he did not think himself justified in proposing to extend it to that country. With regard to the financial difficulties of Ireland, however he might lament them, the House and the hon. gentleman must do him the justice to acknowledge, that he had never endeavoured to skreen them from investigation. In moving for a committee some days ago, to inquire into the state of the Irish finances, he had not concealed that the people of Ireland would be called upon to make great exertions—exertions which he agreed with the hon. gentleman who spoke
 [714
 Mr. Baring  thought this tax came with a very bad grace after the vote declining to make any inquiry into the lavish expenditure of the Civil List. He thought so more especially when he considered how small the majority was, and how that majority was composed. The House was now called on to vote this tax without any information as to the extent of the sum necessary, or with respect to the situation of our external policy; for the Message of the Prince Regent calling on the House to enable preparations to be made, was not enough to induce them, without further information, to vote a tax of 14 millions. But still he should not be disposed to go into a commitee, because he rather preferred leaving the tax on the footing proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, namely, the extension of it for one year only. It was more likely to be a temporary measure, when taken in that manner, than if it were made what the hon. alderman called a comfortable thing, and which would be likely to stick by them for the remainder of their lives. He for one should for ever oppose the tax as a permanent source of revenue in time of peace. He thought, however, on the occasion of the late repeal, that had it been continued for one year longer, till the affairs of the last war were wound up, it would have been attended with great benefit to the finances of the country.
 Mr. Abercrombie  said, he rose in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for such information as could be furnished, with reference to any instructions that his Majesty's ministers might have given to our naval commanders in the Mediterranean, on the subject of the Island of Elba, and for information as to any disclosure which might have been made to them with respect to the projects of Buonaparté, while en that island, together with the means which had, in consequence, been taken, to counteract those projects, simply on these grounds—because the return of that individual to the throne of France was an event of such awful importance, and so deeply affected the interests of Europe, that the House would desert the duty they owed to their constituents, to themselves, and to Europe in general, if they did not attempt to ascertain, whether, by greater prudence and greater foresight,
 717] [718 719] [720 721] [722 723] [724 
 1. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, copies or extracts, or substance of any instructions which may have been given by his Majesty's Government to any of his Majesty's naval commanders, respecting Napoleon Buonaparté and the island of Elba. 2. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, copies or extracts, or substance of any information which his Majesty's Government may have received respecting the design of Napoleon Buonaparté to escape from the island of Elba, together with the date of the reception of the said information."
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that with respect to that part of the hon. member's speech, which related to the alleged violation of the Treaty of Fontainbleau, it was sufficient to observe, that Buonaparté, at the time he quitted the island of Elba, did not complain of any breach of that Treaty. That individual took a more dignified course—a course, at least, more worthy of his character. He put his proceeding on this broad ground, that he withdrew from France for a temporary purpose, and that he had returned to claim his indubitable right to the throne of that country. Latterly, however, he had set up the plea of breach of treaty. The hints on that point, he had received in the course of the discussions, to which recent events had given rise; and certainly a very copious brief was afterwards sent into this country, the composition of Mons. Caulaincourt, in which the argument of breach of treaty was pushed to its utmost extent. The hon. and learned gentleman, and those with whom he acted, were always either too early or too late, in the moment which they selected for the discussion of public questions. Nothing appeared so abhorrent to their nature, as to discuss a measure, at the period when it ought to be entertained. The wisdom of the Treaty of Fontainbleau they were fully prepared to argue against at the time; and they were equally prepared now to arraign the conduct and acts of the Congress, although that transaction was not at present in a state in which it could be argued. But the honourable member wished to know whether this Treaty was a measure to which his Ma-
 725] [726 727] cordon [728 nil,
 Mr. Robinson  entered into a description of the movements of the Allied army, and that of the army of Buonaparté, on the approach to Paris, for the purpose of showing that it was impossible for lord Castlereagh to have been with the advanced division of the Grand Army at the time of the signing of the Treaty of Fontainbleau. The absence of his noble friend at the time of the conclusion of the Treaty of Fontainbleau was not a matter of choice, but arose from the singular operations of the campaign. He was separated from the emperor Alexander by a movement of the army, and as he
 [732
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that the motion of his hon. friend was not made for the purpose of determining whether the Treaty of Fontainbleau was wise or not, or whether it was necessary or not; but for the purpose of ascertaining what steps had been taken after the Treaty was concluded, and what information had been received by his Majesty's Government, as to the intended violation of the Treaty on the part of Buonaparté. He could not help observing on the maxim introduced by an hon. gentleman, That nothing was so difficult as to give good advice before an event, and nothing so easy as to make wise reflections after. He did not find that the truth of this maxim had been borne out by the conduct of his Majesty's ministers, who, while they had not given very wise advice before the Treaty of Fontainbleau, had certainly not given any proof of wise reflection after it was concluded. The honourable gentleman had also spoken of the dangers to be apprehended from the soldiers of Buonaparté,
 733] "———Busily—— "From couch to couch Despair attends the sick." [734 735]
 Mr. Charles Grant  jun. rose and said: 749] [750 751] [752 753] [754 malus animus malus animus 755]
 Mr. Giant  then proceeded at some length to show that Buonaparté, by his late conduct, had violated the Treaty of Fontainbleau.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the appointment of a select committee, as it would lead to delay and inconvenience, and would derange the whole, machinery of the tax, so as to prevent its being collected in due time. Had the tax been proposed for a longer term than one year, he should have thought an inquiry advisable. The ascertaining the proportions of the tax to be paid by fixed capital and industry would necessarily occasion much discussion, and protract the passing of the Bill to a late period of the session.
 Mr. Abercrombie  replied, and said that the question for the House to decide was, whether those ministers who had been proved guilty of such criminal negligence, were fit persons to be trusted with the management of affairs in the present alarming crisis.
 Mr. Bathurst  thought the right hon. gentleman had not added much to the arguments which had previously been heard on the topics which formed the subject of his speech. He had not taken the best mode of establishing his own impartiality by taking upon himself to assert positively, from seeing certain insulated papers, that the honour of his noble friend, and of the country, had been committed in the late negociations. It might have been as well if the right hon. gentleman had waited till it could have been put in possession of the statements on both sides the question. He (Mr. Bathurst), without meaning any disrespect to the right hon. gentleman, would not venture on an answer to so ridiculous an assertion (he spoke with reference to its being founded on partial documents) by meeting it with any document he might have seen, but would only say, that when the period arrived at which the subject could be properly discussed, neither the noble lord, nor the friends of the noble lord, would shrink from the inquiry, and that the right hon. gentleman would, not be able to prove that the honour of the noble lord, or of the country through the noble lord, had been compromised. He could make allowances for the feelings of the right hon. gentleman, from the affliction he must undergo at the contemplation of the late events. These, he apprehended, in the grief which they caused him, led him hastily to censure those who did not deserve condemnation. It was thus he accounted for the objections which had been made by the right hon. gentleman to the defence which had been set up for the Treaty of Fontainbleau. If the noble lord, from unavoidable circumstances, could not be present when the Treaty was concluded, he contended that ministers were not bound to justify the policy of it, however responsible they might be for the consequences. With respect to the duchies of Parma and Placentia, if any change had been made in the arrangement which affected them, it had been with the consent
 [736 737]
 Mr. Frederick Douglas  said, that the opinions which had been delivered in that House that night, reminded him of an old maxim, the truth of which was manifest on this occasion, namely, "that nothing was so hard as to give wise council before an event, nor so easy as to make wise reflections after it." Those gentlemen who had so spontaneously subscribed to alt that had been done some months back, and who had never thought of questioning, the wisdom of the conduct which had been pursued, now exhibited the utmost anxiety to condemn circumstances which they had never themselves contemplated, but which, now that they had taken place, they pronounced the most natural occurrences possible, and such as might hare been foreseen by the most shallow politicians. He was aware how difficult it was to bear up by abstract reasoning against the want of success; yet he thought, under all the circumstances the Treaty of Fontainbleau was capable of the clearest justification. His hon. friend who had just sat down had stated, that at the time of signing this Treaty, Buonaparté had but 30 or 40,000 men. It should be recollected, however, that these men consisted of the old guards, who had had accompanied him in all his victories, and who would have shed the last drop' of their blood in defence of their leader-Against such a force it would not have been wise to have risked a continuance of war—the result would have been by no means certain, for these men, refreshed by despair, would have fought with a determination which could not have been withstood. What would the House have said, if ministers had called upon the country to lavish more blood and treasure in a personal animosity? If the Treaty of Fontainbleau had not been concluded at the moment, the soldiery
 731]
 Mr. Bankes  said, that what he had stated yesterday of the expediency of extending the principle of the Property-tax to Ireland was advanced, advisedly, and that he would persevere in recommending to Parliament the adoption of such a measure. It was his intention to move, that in the first clause of the Bill the word 'Ireland' should be introduced. But perhaps it would be necessary, in the first place, to refer the subject to the consideration of a committee. If so, he would name a day for that purpose. To no place would the Property-lax, to a certain degree, be more applicable than to Ireland. Articles of consumption in that country were already toe much the subject of taxation; and resort could not be had to a better tax, than to one which was not easily evaded, which was collected at a moderate expense, and from which the lower classes were wholly exempt He hoped the right hon. baronet would not maintain, that the gentry of Ireland ought not to bear any of the burthens which the necessities of the state might render it advisable to impose. Did the right hon. baronet think, that the gentry of Ireland were the only persons that did not like to pay taxes? The English gentry did no; pay them from any feeling of pleasure in the act; but they nevertheless paid then with cheerfulness when the honour and interests of the country required that they should do so. And so, he would answer for them, would the gentry of Ireland under similar circumstances.
 Mr. Bankes  approved of such a bargain, and hoped that, while it was fresh in their memories, some plan would be carried into execution for better regulating the emoluments of other great offices.
 Mr. Grattan  observed, that the hon. gentleman's speech had consisted of a succession of assertions, from all of which he dissented, except the last, namely, that the gentry of Ireland were ready to submit to whatever taxes might be considered consistent with the good of the country and the advantage of the state. They would be ready to maintain the British empire with their property and their blood; but the Property-tax would bi infinitely more injurious to the sensation of Irishmen, than taxes much more productive to the state. But this was not the time to enter into particulars. He though the hon. gentleman had done well to give notice of his intentions; and whenever he
 713]
 General Gascoyne  said, that having pre-
 711]
 General Gascoyne  explained, and said, that he wished the subject to be taken up as he proposed, by any other member.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  said, that the Property-tax was a tax on industry, and was highly unequal, as being as great on the profits of one year as on property for ever. He was sure the tax, without any modification, was very uncomfortable to the country—[a laugh]—but if his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would agree to a committee to adopt modifications, then it might be made something more comfortable, and the country might be brought not to object to the measure.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  thought it possible to ameliorate the severities of the Act, without rendering it inefficient, or taking up much time.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he thought that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had paid a high practical compliment to the speech of his hon. and learned friend (sir James Mackintosh), seeing he had not touched a single point which it contained. Alluding to the watchmen of the state, the hon. gentleman had said that it was equally incumbent on the Opposition to be awake, and to speak their sentiments at the time on the Treaty of Fontainbleau. Looking, however, at the hon. member, and at the noble lord and his colleagues below him, he must say that they were really the watchmen—paid by the public for doing their duty. They (the Opposition) had been reproached with want of delicacy and fairness in their conduct. But he appealed to the candour of the hon. gentleman, because he thought he possessed that virtue, and not to that of the noble lord below him, in whom he did not think it was to be found,—whether there could be a House of Commons, (looking at every bench,) which could possibly have placed more confidence in the noble lord than they had done? But when they saw that the noble lord had deserted them, and had thrown himself info the arms of prince Talleyrand, how could they continue to repose the same trust in him? Mr. Whitbread then defended himself against the charge of having called Buonaparté 'a great man:' he had not said 'a great man,' but one of such powers as appalled the noble lord and his colleagues, and reduced them to a state of terror. He had discovered some littleness in his conduct when in prosperity, which took away from his greatness; but he had perceived in the conduct of his imitators in the Congress at Vienna, of whom the noble lord was one, a degree of littleness which was still worse. He, however, considered it possible, as he was also ready to acknowledge it within the bounds of possibility, that the noble lord should one day become a magnanimous statesman; that Napoleon, by his future way of conducting himself during the second part of his history, if he continued on the throne of France, should really become a great man. Mr. Whitbread reproved the sentiments which
 [756 757] [758 "Vive l'Empereur!" 759]
 Mr. Elliot  lamented the unhappy predicament in which the country had been placed by the extraordinary events which had so unexpectedly taken place. He considered that the first duty of the House, under existing circumstances, was to strengthen the hands of the Executive Government, in order that the evils by which we were threatened might be avoided as much as possible; but this done, he thought the House was bound to inquire, by whose conduct we had been, placed in this perilous situation, and to examine into the circumstances which led to the frustration of those flattering hopes, which two months ago had been so fondly entertained. He had listened with attention to the speech of his noble friend; but he confessed, the explanation he had heard had not at all solved the doubts he entertained upon this subject, or extenuated the conduct of his Majesty's Government. After the negociations at Chatillon, it was declared by the Allies, that, it was impossible to enter into any relations of peace or amity with the individual who then presided over the Government of France. The first object to be obtained after this declaration was his exclusion from that Government; and it this was so, it was natural to conclude that it was in the contemplation of the Allies to get him into their power, so as to prevent his regaining so formidable a situation. It was said, that this was a measure to which his Majesty's Government had given no previous consent. He would ask, had we no diplomatic agent with the army at the period when the Treaty of Fontainbleau was concluded? What had become of lord Cathcart? Had he no instructions upon, this subject? Did he, or did he not, assist in forming the Treaty; and if not, did he protest against it? If he did, it was formed in utter defiance of the British minister. [Lord Castlereagh here said across the table, that lord Cathcart was not present.] Then (continued Mr. Elliot) it appeared that there was no minister with that important department of the army at that crisis of affairs; when the peace and safety of Europe was to be restored, there was no diplomatic agent whatever present
 729] [730
 Mr. W. Elliot  said, he conceived a measure of the nature of that now proposed, a necessary consequence of the late Address of the House; and he should therefore give his vote in favour of the motion. He should reserve to himself the power of exercising his discretion with regard to the details of the measure in a subsequent stage; but with respect to the measure itself, he considered it as only providing the Government with the necessary means for the security of the country, whatever might be the tenour of their future conduct.
 Mr. W. Smith  was much of the same opinion with the hon. alderman, and thought that though the tax could not be made agreeable, it might be made to go down. It was not the amount of the tax so much as the inequality of its operation, to which he objected; upon the same principle he should have objected to 5 1. l.
 Mr. Wellsley Pole  said, that at so late an hour, and after the very full and able discussion which the question had undergone, he should trespass but for a very short, time upon the attention of the House. The hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had commenced his speech by an appeal to the candour of his hon. friend (Mr. Gram). He would not allow that any candour was to be found among the gentlemen who sat upon the ministerial bench. He had expressly charged them with, a total absence of all candour; and yet that hon. gentleman had himself, after
 [760 761] 762] 763] [764 765] [766
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, that he should not undertake to decide whether any thing substantially new had been, or could be added to the judicious and unexaggerated statement of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Abercrombie); but sure he was, that whoever were to know the excellent speech of his learned friend only from the answer which had been attempted to it, must be totally mistaken in its purport and scope. The question was not, as it had been argued on the other side, whether there was a case for the conviction of ministers, but whether parliamentary ground was laid for inquiry into their conduct. On the question thus stated, he really could scarcely see a plausible pretext for difference of opinion. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. B. Bathurst) had indeed been pleased to charge the representations made on this side of the House of the mischievous effects of this fatal error with exaggeration, and had deigned in his generosity to say that he made allowance for the feelings of his light hon. friend (Mr. Elliot)—so much distinguished in the House by that power of compression, and that union of elegance, with gravity which required a calm as well as a comprehensive understanding. No man was more master of himself, as well as of his audience; no man was less likely to be hurried away by the impetuosity of disorderly feelings. How had his right hon. friend been so unfortunate as to incur the indulgence, and require the merciful consideration of the right hon. gentleman?
 [738 Ibi omnis effusus labor! 739] [740 741] [742 Æstuat infelix angusto limite mundi Ut Gyaræ clausus scopulis, parvâque Seripho. 743] [744 745] [746 747] [748
 Sir J. Newport  declared, that feeling as he did that the proposed tax was inquisitorial in its nature, subversive of the best principles of our free constitution, unequal in its operation, affecting alike permanent and uncertain property, and arming Government with a power which it never ought to have, of making income and not expenditure the criterion of taxation, he would in every stage, and under every circumstance, and to the last moment of its being before them, take the sense of the House upon it. He could hardly conceive any emergency so great as to warrant the re-introduction of this measure. Had he wanted any additional inducement to oppose the proposition  in limine, [712
 Sir J. Newport  said, that be had collected his information as to the amounts of those sinecures from the statements of the officers themselves.
 Sir John Newport  rose, in pursuance of his previous notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the abolition of certain great offices in the courts of law in Ireland. It calling the attention of the House to this subject, he felt how much his anxiety am trouble must be diminished by the House having, on many former occasions, recognised the principle on which his propose Bill was established. Several resolution had been passed at different periods, sanctioning the propriety of such a measure and leave had been given to introduce Bill of a similar tendency. He would not, therefore, anticipate any oppositon to his intended motion, for the abolition of certain great offices after the expiration of the present existing grant. Those offices were accompanied by large emoluments, were for the most part performed
 709] l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that he hoped very soon to be able to present to the House some provisions for the conveyance of letters to India, which would give that great branch of the empire the same facilities of correspondence as were enjoyed by our other colonial possessions. He hoped that gentlemen who might be concerned in this question, would suspend their opinions till the measure should be produced.
 Mr. Forbes  spoke in favour of the prayer of the petition, and urged the illiberality of subjecting persons with small incomes, as were most of the families whose children were in India, to the payment of heavy postage, in order to correspond with them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would explain the subject to the House on a future day.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he certainly felt it his duty to avoid, if possible entering into an argument on subjects which could not with propriety be yet brought before the House. But with respect to the question of the hon. gentleman, if he conceived that it was his duty to offer an advice to the Crown on the subject to which it related, and intended to bring that subject before the House in a regular way, he (lord Castlereagh) should consider that circumstance as a justification for his giving an answer to the question.
 Lord Castlereagh. —Does the hon. gentleman mean to say, that it is his intention to call the attention of the House to it? If so, I have no hesitation in admitting that a Treaty was signed at Vienna on the 25th of March; and that the newspaper alluded to by the hon. gentleman, with some inaccuracies, contains the substance of that Treaty. The Treaty, however, is not yet ratified by all of the Allied Powers, and therefore not in a state to be submitted to Parliament. But if the hon. gentleman thinks proper to call the attention of Parliament to it in a regular way, I shall cer-
 [772
 Lord Castlereagh. —I think that I have shown a sufficient disposition to candour in my conduct towards the hon. gentleman this evening, however much he may be indisposed to give me, or those who act with me, credit for candour on any occasion. I have told the hon. gentleman that if he can show that any practical purpose can possibly be answered by it, I shall be prepared to answer his question. But when I have given him this answer, upon what principle does he conceive himself entitled, contrary to all the rules of Parliament, to enter into a premature discussion, or endeavour to throw out calumnies not supported by argument, against any proceedings of which he disapproves?—I certainly consider such a mode of proceeding a gross violation of propriety.
 Lord Castlereagh. —The hon. gentleman may bring forward his motion as early as he thinks it his duty to do so. I have no right to complain of him for this; but what I complain of, is his attempt to enter into that sort of unsupported observation which cannot be said to be a fair examination of the subject, and which can lead to no practical good. The hon. gentleman has asked me, whether the Treaty has been ratified on the part of Great Britain? I have no hesitation in returning for answer to the hon. gentleman, that his royal highness the Prince Regent, with an explanation of one of the articles, did intend to ratify this Treaty with the Allied Powers.
 Mr. Ponsonby. —I am not sure, from what fell from the noble lord, whether this subject is soon to be brought forward in such a shape as will afford us an opportunity of discussing it; for if I am silent upon the present occasion, it is from the circumstance of the subject not yet being before us in such a shape that we can take parliamentary notice of it. Is it the intention of the noble lord to bring the Treaty soon before us in a shape that we can take parliamentary notice of it? If such is not his intention, I must proceed to some other course. I do not choose to trust myself at this moment with the expression of the sentiments which arose in my mind when I read this instrument. I certainly did not think it was genuine. But if the noble lord will not bring the business before us in a shape that will enable us to discuss it in a parliamentary-way, we must proceed to its discussion out of the parliamentary way. There is not a man in the House who has read that paper, who will not say that the House of Commons will abandon its duty, if it does not take the earliest opportunity of offering its advice to the Crown on this subject.
 Lord Castlereagh. —It is not out of the course of parliamentary usage, to bring forward a motion for the discussion of this Treaty, in the shape in which the right hon. gentleman finds it; and Parliament may, if it thinks proper, give its advice to the Crown, on the supposition of the Crown being on the point of entering into any engagement which it may consider injurious to the interests of the country. What I mean to say is this, that it would be improper in me to bring the document
 775]
 Lord Castlereagh. —The hon. gentleman will never find me disposed to shrink from any responsibility which I have incurred. With respect to the course of the hon. member, I must say that it certainly does not consist in arming the executive government with those powers which are necessary for it in the present arduous situation of affairs. If the hon. gentleman is not disposed to concur in those measures which his Majesty's Government have thought advisable in the present situation of the country, it is not on the subject of supply that he ought to raise the question—he ought to raise it on its own merits. If the hon. gentleman is determined to persist in this course, it is a proof that he shrinks from the merits of the question, a [Hear! Hear! from the Opposition.] I repeat it again—it is a proof of his shrinking from the merits of the question— while I, on the contrary, have this night afforded him every facility for bringing the question forward in a regular manner. Every person must be convinced that the Treaty cannot be laid before the House in its present state by his Majesty's ministers, without their acting in a manner inconsistent with the duty which they owe to their country; and I consider, therefore, the measure which the hon. gentleman has chosen to pursue, with the view of obstructing his Majosty's Government, as only granting with a bad grace what must at last be granted, and rendering that strength which the House have committed to the Crown inadequate to its object. If the hon. gentleman is sincere in the intention which he has announced of impeaching me; and if he wishes at the same time to strengthen the Executive, let him bring the question forward on its own merits; but let him not make this a pretext for
 777]
 Lord Castlereagh  declared, that he had no wish to protract this conversation; but with respect to that species of taunt which had been so often thrown out against himself and the rest of his Majesty's ministers, he should only say, that whenever there was not a notice of censure against him entered on the books of that House, he should feel perfectly satisfied that, in the hon. member's mind, there was no chance of making such a motion with the least possibility of success. He would put it to the House whether they ought to listen to such opinions as had been that night stated.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he should not have troubled the House any further, if particular pains had not been taken to misrepresent what he had said. The noble lord repeated what he had said, as to the course that was open to the hon. gentleman, of giving advice to the Crown; and added, that he would peremptorily deny that any thing like delusion had been practised by his Majesty's ministers on a former occasion. They gave no opinion to the House on the degree of probability as to war of peace; but they had said, that the case-was of such a nature as rendered it necessary for them to come to Parliament on their own responsibility. He would also deny that even now there was no alternative. The principle on which ministers placed the alternative was, that they would be mainly influenced by what they found
 779]
 Lord Castlereagh  answered, that he should be prepared to give every information on a future day.
 Mr. Bennet  inquired whether that part
 781]
 Lord Castlereagh  had no objection to state, that that part was decidedly incorrect—substantially inaccurate.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that for the reasons he had before stated, he should decline laying the substance of the Treaty before the House, unless a distinct motion were made upon the subject; and then he could state his opinion, and adopt such conduct as he might deem expedient.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied in the affirmative, and added, that he was prepared to contend that there was nothing at all inconsistent between the terms of the Address and of the Treaty.
 Lord Castlereagh  had no objection to a motion being made to that effect by any hon. member who might think such a measure desirable.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, no, not now, as it was totally out of the common course of proceeding to give treaties before the ratifications were exchanged. He could not consent to such a motion on the instant. This refusal for the present was due to his colleagues; and while he felt he owed much to them, he could not but feel he owed still more to the representatives of the Allied Sovereigns now in this country.
 Lord Castlereagk,  said that he would enter into no compact. He was surprised that the hon. member should so long have remained in the dark; for the whole course of his (lord Castlereagh's) reasoning was intended to show, that at the proper time
 [782
 Mr. Ponsonby  remarked, that in former instances the substance of a treaty had been communicated to enable the House to decide on the policy on which it was founded, before a communication could formally be made. Would the noble lord do so on the present occasion? The noble lord, if he had no objection to engage to give them the substance of it on Monday, could enable them to enter upon the discussion of some of the topics connected with it; but he protested against being called upon to give an opinion on a treaty before it was accurately known to them. This the noble lord himself must feel would be most improper, for nothing could be so absurd as to demand an opinion of the House on that which had not been laid before them.
 Lord Castlereagh  was sure no one was more disposed than himself to hail the pacific tone which had suddenly broke in upon the House. He was glad to find the wishes of gentlemen opposite were what they now proved to be. It was often practicable to communicate to the House the substance of a document, before the document itself could be produced in an official form. In reply to the inquiry of the right hon. gentleman, as to whether he would be bound to give the substance of the Treaty on Monday, he could only refer him to the answer he had given to the question of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Whitbread), that on that day he could give a distinct answer on this point. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman, that it would be wrong to call for the sense of the House on a treaty before that treaty could be produced. He had no intention of calling upon the House to pronounce an opinion, or had he supposed the hon. gentleman could do that when he sug-
 783]
 Lord Castlereagh. —I cannot see that there is any matter of difference between us now. The hon. member does not, however, quite approve of my conduct; and I am not sorry for it, because there is nothing that I am so much afraid of as his praise.
 Mr. Gordon  cautioned those hon. gentlemen who had last spoken, against giving the Bill their support in the present instance, on the supposition that the modifications which they recommended would be subsequently adopted, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had declared himself against such an alteration of the measure. There was a determination to overpower all that might be said against it by that irresistible argument a majority, or the amendment of the hon. member for Hertford, would have been carried on a former evening, asking, as it did, only time sufficient to ascertain whether or not the measure was necessary. He thought the public were duped by ministers, seeing that they had the Treaty of Vienna in their possession, when they told the House that an alternative still existed between peace and war. He should oppose the Bill in every stage, and he hoped the House would now divide upon the first reading.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the tax, whether we went to war or remained at peace, was necessary, and he did not see that the public service could be provided for in any other way. He knew of no substitute for it, which would not be more oppressive. The assessed taxes proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though less productive, would, he thought, be found more vexatious to the people.
 Mr. Baring  was of opinion that the last speaker but one would find himself mistaken if he could canvass the whole country, with respect to the sentiments of the people on the Property-tax, which was still considered a most obnoxious impost, on account of the annual disclosure of private affairs which it involved. Notwithstanding this, he felt it to be his duty to vote for it. If he saw any thing in the conduct of ministers that gave him alarm, he might not do this; but conceiving as he did that vigorous exertions on the part of this country, and on that of the Allies, gave us the best chance of being able to do without the tax altogether, he felt bound to give the Bill his support. Without it there was no chance of getting rid of it soon, and of returning to a state of peace and comfort. As it was to be enacted but for one year, he thought it would be better that the old machinery should be revived, than that new expedients should be devised; as reviving it in its former state for one year would best satisfy the public it was not intended to be a permanent measure.
 Mr. Ponsonby  lamented his difference of opinion from his hon. friend, who spoke last. He retained his objections to the
 [786
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, his statement merely went to this—that all the information called for by the right hon. baronet, except that relative to the last year, would be, if possible, laid on the table by Monday next. Much useful information would be derived from those documents.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, it would be very difficult to produce the accounts exactly in the shape called for by the right hon. baronet.
 Mr. Gordon  was unwilling to suppose, that his Majesty's ministers would press forward, with unnecessary haste, any
 789]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, he had no objection to produce such documents, as, without greatly interfering with the progress of the measure, would afford gentlemen a basis for modifying it. For his own part, he wished they would point out a beneficial modification of the Tax.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that although the right hon. baronet had disclaimed, on his part, the having imputed any improper motives to his Majesty's ministers, yet the hon. gentleman near him (Mr. Gordon) surely could not deny, that he had accused ministers, in an indirect way, of having acted with gross indecency in pressing the measure. If, however, this censure arose from the refusal of his right hon. friend to agree to the motion for farther information, his right hon. friend, and those who agreed with him in opinion, had this, consolation, and it would enable them to support the obloquy cast upon them with philosophy, that, on a very recent occasion—the discussion of the Corn Bill—when delay was requested and was opposed, both by the hon. gentleman and the right hon. baronet, each of them declared, that he was willing to bear any imputation to which his might give rise.
 Mr. Gordon  said, he certainly did conceive, when information was refused which appeared necessary before members decided on the vote they ought to give, and the measure connected with that information was still pressed forward, that it looked like a determination to hurry the measure through the House, lest the popular voice might arrest it in its progress. With respect to the case alluded to by the right hon. gentleman, it should be observed, that every information had been given on that subject; but here the complaint was, that necessary information was denied. This made the great difference between the two cases.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  asked, whether any discussion now could be productive of greater harm than what had been done by the appearance of such documents as the public had lately seen? What would be the use of the information promised by the noble lord, when the country was already involved in war? No discussion could be so injurious to the noble lord as the belief entertained by the public, that his conduct was such as it appeared to have been from these documents, which had created a disagreeable impression against him throughout the whole country.
 Mr. Ellis  thought the Bill ought not to pass in its present state. He doubted if any modifications would make it what an hon. alderman conceived it might be made—a comfortable measure; but he was convinced such modifications might be introduced as would have the effect of causing it to be cheerfully borne by the people in the present circumstances of the country. A proposition which should have this effect, would, he thought, come with peculiar good grace from the hon. alderman (Atkins), and should not fail to have his support.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know if the noble lord had any objection to the substance of the Treaty being given?
 Mr. Tierney  presented a Petition from the merchants, ship-owners, and others, interested in the trade of India, praying relief in a matter of which the petitioners complained relative to the postage of letters to India. He begged leave to call the attention of the House to an Act which had passed last session, subjecting letters sent to India with a charge of postage. Up to the time of the passing of that Act, the letters to India had always been carried out by the regular ships of the India Company, which were all known to have their voyages ascertained and fixed, and by which of course those who had friends, relatives, or commercial connexions in India could be certain of their letters being carried safe and direct to the place they wished to send them; or if their correspondents should happen to be in the interior of the country, they were sure their letters would be landed at the port
 767] [768
 Mr. H. Martin  said, the language which
 [790
 Alderman Atkins  argued, that the information which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already laid before the House, was as copious as the right hon. baronet could fairly demand.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  was against the revival of the Property-tax, unless some modifications were introduced. He wished the Chancellor of the Exchequer would refer the subject to a committee. He did not wish to make the tax less productive, but he wished it to be so altered that it should be felt less by persons of limited and moderate incomes. The gentlemen in the landed interest, who had lately received a favour of the House, would, he hoped, step forward on this occasion, and offer to bear a portion of the burthen, which would otherwise fall on the middling and lower classes of society.
 Mr. J. P. Grant,  stated, that he had intended to oppose the Bill in every stage, and to have taken the sense of the House upon it; but in consequence of what had
 [784
 Mr. Finlay  observed, that we had at
 769]
 Mr. Grenfell  was favourable, to the renewal of the Property-tax for another year, but he thought certain modifications were necessary. It did not appear to him to be just that a person of small income —say from 200 l. l.
 Mr. Methuen  denied that he had given any abstract applause to the conduct of lord Castlereagh—in this instance it received his full approbation. He thought he might fairly accuse the other side of the House with giving abstract and systematic opposition to every measure of Government, under whatever circumstances it might be adopted.
 Mr. Methuen  was proud to declare, without any particular partiality for Ministers, that this was a time when every man ought to join heart and hand in their support. He firmly believed that the noble lord enjoyed the entire confidence of the country; and he also believed that that confidence would not in any degree be shaken by the conduct of the gentlemen opposite.
 Mr. Benson  noticed the call made by the right hon. baronet, for those who bad changed their minds to come forward, and said he had been much pleased with the conduct of the hon. member for Liverpool, who had stated the inhabitants of that great town to have changed their sentiments on it. He believed nine-tenths of the country had changed in the same way in its favour.
 Mr. Whitbread. —I wish to say one word more. A single ray of light has broken in upon us from the speech of the noble lord. The noble lord says, that when he sees no notice on the book, he shall always conclude that I have no grounds for censure. I may have sufficient grounds for censure; but I have also had sufficient experience not to adopt such a measure, knowing as I do the extent of the influence of the Crown.
 Mr. Whitbread  added, that when the supplies were granted, both the noble lord and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, that there was an alternative of peace or war; but it was now found that there was no alternative; and if any farther support were given, it must be for offensive operations of the most desperate nature. The ministers who could be parties to such a treaty as this, he would no longer consent to entrust with the supplies of the country. He denied that the noble lord had given him any facilities; but the House must go to the discussion of the question, trusting to be informed by the noble lord what difference there was between the real and the unauthenticated copy of the Treaty. It was not to the noble lord that he should go for advice how to conduct himself in Parliament, at the time when he should wish the House of Commons to pass on the noble lord that sentence which his conduct had justified.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, before the question was put, he begged leave to call the attention of the House to a subject which he thought deserving their consideration. It was well known to the House, that a large sum of money had long since been voted by the House, for the purpose of providing a suitable mansion, &c. for the heirs of the late lord Nelson: that such money had been long ready; but a proper estate, &c. could not be fixed on. Lately, however, it seemed that a place which was deemed in every respect answerable for the purpose had been agreed upon by the commissioners, and it was hinted that an additional sum of 9,000 l. l. 771]
 Mr. Whitbread. —The noble lord has used a new word, which he seems to have borrowed from Congress; for I do not recollect to have ever heard the word 'initiative' made use of in this House before. If he will not take the initiative, as he is pleased to call it, in this measure; in the choice of difficulties to which we are reduced from that circumstance, knowing, as we do, the deep plunge made by his Majesty's Government towards war, without the question being regularly before it, the House must pause before it grants any further supply for what are called defensive preparations, when it knows that the Government will convert those measures of defence into measures of offence—and into a war which will be prosecuted not only in the most disgraceful, but the most hopeless manner. My duty calls on me to propose an adjournment of the House, till the noble lord is able to come before us with the terms of this Treaty; and I hope Parliament will
 [776
 Mr. Whitbread. —I wish, Sir, to put this question in a shape that the House may take it into consideration without delay; because, by adopting a different line of conduct, we may find, when we wish to express our disapprobation, that it is too late, when we are already involved in an unfortunate and calamitous war. Does the noble lord intend to involve the country in a war first, and then ask the House to strengthen the hands of Government? Our situation will be very different between one alternative and the other. I am sure
 [774
 Mr. Whitbread. —The noble lord has thought proper to call me to order, in a speech which is itself extremely disorderly. I contend, that I have a perfect right to deliver my sentiments on this subject, on the question of the adjournment of the House. I have a right to express my approbation or disapprobation of the Treaty, on the avowal of it by the noble lord, and to oppose the adjournment of the House, if I think proper. The noble lord has accused me of making use of the language of calumny. It is impossible to speak of the proceedings of the Congress in terms of calumny. I might, if I thought proper, move, that the House should sit to-morrow. But as the noble lord has avowed the Treaty, I am rather disposed to put the question—That the supplies be withheld, which by our former votes we expressed our resolution to confide to the Crown. I wish farther to ask the noble
 773]
 Mr. Whitbread The noble lord has said that the Treaty is not yet ratified by all the Allied Powers; but we find now that the substance of it is true. The noble lord has told us that there are inaccuracies; but then he has not told us what the nature of these inaccuracies are; whether they are all inaccuracies of language. I shall pause till I see what these inaccuracies are; because I cannot conceive how any person, if the Treaty which we have seen is accurate in substance, could possibly put his hand to it. I would ask those who expect that we should abstain from all argument on the present occasion, to read that Treaty.
 Mr. Whitbread.  — Then the inference from what has fallen just now from the noble lord is, that the Treaty which has appeared in one of the papers of this day is a genuine Treaty?
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that feeling as he did, from a consideration of all the circumstances, from a consideration of the alleged parties, from a consideration of the supposed conditions, that the paper which had that day been published in a partial manner, in the  Times,
 Mr. Whitbread. —The fear expressed by the noble lord is quite as unfounded as my praise would have been if I had ever bestowed it; for the fact is, that he never received a scintilla of applause from me during the whole course of his political life.
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that as the noble lord had been the God of the Storm, now he was metamorphosed into the Genius of the Calm. From what the noble lord had at first said, no man could have anticipated what had recently fallen from his lips. Now he was perfectly ready to grant every thing that was required—[No, no! from lord Castlereagh]. Yes, he would grant all that was wanted—the substance of the Treaty—[No, no!]. Well, then, the fact would be known on Monday, and he had no disposition to raise a new storm by further contention.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, there was a great difference between the present language of the noble lord and that which he had before held. He would move for the papers on Monday, to ascertain if the noble lord would give them or not. He wished the question to be answered before the House went into the committee of supply, but he did not wish to plunge unnecessarily into a discussion that might be injurious to the country.
 Mr. Whitbread  regretted that the noble lord had not saved the time of the House by earlier making such a statement. Was he now to understand, that if a motion were made on Monday for the substance of the Treaty, it would meet with the compliance of the noble lord? If so, he would of course move for it, and then the subject would be fairly and clearly before the House.
 Mr. Whitbread  wished the noble lord to state if, in saying he had no objection to such a motion, he desired it should be understood that he would grant the papers if such a motion were made. If he now moved for the substance of the Treaty, would the noble lord grant it?
 Mr. Lushington  said, it was premature to judge of the operation of the Act as yet. The plan was in great forwardness, and would be completed as expeditiously as possible.
 Mr. Huskisson  coincided in the sentiments of the last speaker. The information already placed on their table was, he conceived, all that could at the present moment, be expected. At the same time, he did not profess to know, on what documents, or in what manner, the right hon. baronet wished or intended to form his opinion. The worthy alderman had already said, and said very justly, that the accounts were produced up to a period, beyond which it was impossible they could at present be brought. The right bon. baronet had already information, lying on the table of the House, on which be might form his judgment. He complained, indeed, that it was too general— it did not enter sufficiently into detail;
 [788
 Mr. Huskisson  objected to the language which had been used in the course of the discussion. He denied that Government bad any intention of pressing forward, unnecessarily, the measure which gave rise to this debate: and he equally denied, that any intention existed of bearing down a member of that House, when he was discharging his duty. He could assure the gentlemen opposite, that the bringing forward this measure was as painful to his right hon. friend, as it would be to them to give it their support—if, indeed, it were possible for them to support it. But he would never be deterred from doing his duty, with reference to this Tax, bearing hard, as it certainly must, on his colleagues, because gentlemen were pleased to assert, that it was unpopular.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he did not complain of the language which had been used; but he did complain of the insinuation, that ministers, in proceeding as they had done, with the renewal of the Property-tax, acted from unworthy motives. It was broadly insinuated, that the measure was pressed forward, because ministers dreaded the effects which might arise from the unpopularity of the TAX, if the consideration of it were protracted. He denied the truth of this insinuation. Ministers, in doing what they had done, looked merely to the execution of their duty.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought the proposition of the hon. alderman so reasonable that it ought to be acceded to; and this not being adopted, he should vote against the Bill. If it were only to be revived for one year, he should not care much about the proposed modifications, but the probability was, that it was now to be saddled on the country for ever. He referred to the commencement of the old American war, which it was said would be ended in a week or a fortnight, to prove the folly of supposing that the war now about to be commenced would be ended in a year, especially when the means which France possessed were so important, if a calculation were made only of the number of prisoners returned.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that certainly revenue was a great object with the Post-office; but it was unquestionably a matter of the greatest injustice, that persons so deeply interested as those were who had connexions of interest or affection in so distant a part as India, should not only be subjected to the many grievous inconveniences and anxieties they must of course suffer, but that they should be made to pay for it into the bargain. He mentioned an instance within his own knowledge, of a clergyman with a large family, a friend of his, and a considerable part of whose family was in India, who had mentioned to him the numerous vexations and anxious doubts he had suffered from this novel and unmatured plan of raising a new branch of revenue; and could not help giving it as his opinion, that it was highly unjust that the Post-office, which was originally instituted for the purposes of public convenience, should be converted into a mere instrument of revenue.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that India was the only part of our colonial possessions with the communications and correspondence of which he was at all acquainted, and he thought it was not only unjust to charge a rate of postage on letters for which no certain conveyance was yet provided, though the act had passed nearly a twelvemonth, but it was also extremely cruel and impolitic to cut off the means of conveying affectionate remembrances to those who had left their native country, and would be a means of cutting asunder the knot which, as long as it remained entire, could not fail to make the  natale solum [770
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he could not follow the hon. gentleman who spoke last, in bestowing his approbation alike under any circumstances without any exception, and without any guard. Here he begged to be understood as differing from him. He agreed in the position, that all hearts and hands should be united on an occasion like the present; but then our hearts and hands ought to be guided by reason and conscience. The noble lord himself had advanced what was little less than treason to the constitution, when he talked of the responsibility of ministers. The House of Commons were a great council to give advice, and they were not to be precluded from the exercise of that right under any idea of the ministers responsibility. But the noble lord's mode of arguing had a tendency to destroy all free and deliberate discussion. What would be the consequence? How could any member bring forward a motion on the subject? The noble lord would move an Address to lay a copy of the Convention before the House. Now what was the Convention? According to the noble lord, the one we had seen contained substantial inaccuracies. This document appeared so doubtful in its meaning as to require an explanation on the part of the Crown of Great Britain, to
 [780
 Sir John Newport. —I had a right when I dissented from ray hon. friend (Mr. Whitbread) on a late occasion, to consider that there was still an alternative left—that war was not then determined on;—but I now find out that I am duped by the noble lord, and that to the noble lord I ought not to have given credence; for the question which he told me was pending, was actually determined. The noble lord tells us now, that the Treaty, with some substantial inaccuracies, is correct. He now says, that we ought not to refuse the supplies which were given for an alternative, but which alternative did not exist. I cannot very well conceive what the noble lord means by using the words "not shrinking from responsibility," because he is certainly shrinking from responsi-
 [778
 Sir John Newport  was on his legs, pointing out to the gentlemen opposite the propriety of acceding to a motion, for the production of documents on the subject of the Property-tax, which, we understood, from what fell from him, he had made during our exclusion, and, in opposition to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had moved the previous question. The right hon. baronet, argued strongly against the House being called on to give an opinion as to the renewal of the Tax, in its old form, until proper information had been afforded, with reference to the produce derived from it, during a series of years, from the different classes of society who were subject to its operation. If information on such a necessary point were withheld—if gentlemen agreed to vote without proper  data
 Sir John Newport  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had told them, he would move the second reading of the Property-tax Bill on Monday, on which day it should be remembered, the latest information which he had called for, could be laid on the table. Now, how the right hon. gentleman could suppose that any hon. member could come prepared to debate the question on Monday, when documents, connected with it, were only placed in their hands on that day, really surprised him. He had no objection to leaving the word 'districts' out of his motion; but he conceived it was right the produce of the Tax from the various 'classes' on whom it operated should be clearly understood. The House, by looking at such a document as that which he called for, would see whether the produce of the Tax had increased or diminished, during a series of years, in any of those classes that were subject to it.
 Sir John Newport  said, be had, over and over again, stated, that he was not wedded to any particular mode in which the necessary information might be laid before them, so that the information was produced. All he wished for was, that the right hon. gentleman would give him, in substance, the produce of the Property-tax, with reference to certain distinct classes, up to the latest possible period. That which the right hon. gentleman appeared to think of no moment, he (sir J. Newport) conceived to be of the utmost consequence. He must, therefore, persist in calling for those documents, which he conceived to be necessary to justify the vote he should give on the renewal of the Property-tax.
 Sir John Newport  hoped the House
 785]
 Sir J. Newport  utterly disclaimed having ever imputed any improper motives to ministers.
 Sir J. Newport  said, if the right hon. gentleman really wished the Tax to be modified, he ought himself to propose some plan of modification, and not leave it to others; he ought to point out specifically what his wishes were. He (sir John) called for accounts, which he conceived vitally necessary to a just consideration of the question; and he hoped even those gentlemen who differed from him in opinion, would see the impropriety of attempting to bear down a member of that House who called for what he considered constitutional information.
 Sir John Newport  said, that as he could not allow a bill which imposed 14 millions of taxes on the country in a manner generally odious, without a full attendance, at least in one stage, he should give notice that he would on Monday move the call of the House for Thursday next.
 Lord Milton  begged to know on what day the Treaty in question had been received by Government.
 Lord Milton  asked, whether this Treaty was in the hands of ministers before the 7th of April, the day on which the noble lord had obtained the Address?
 Mr. Robinson  rose to move certain clauses to provide for the care and maintenance of negroes captured in foreign vessels, between the period of their being carried into any port belonging to this country, and that of the final adjudication of the prizes. A considerable time had sometimes elapsed after they were carried into port, before the vessel was condemned; and the consequences of this delay, and of there having been no regular provision made for the care and maintenance of the negroes, had, in one instance, pressed very severely on the unfortunate victims who were taken in the prize. The governor of the colony where the cause was to be tried, had, much to his credit, taken upon himself to cause certain issues to be made from the funds of the island, and thus saved the lives of some of the captives, but several of them unfortunately died. He then moved two resolutions: viz. 1. "That it is expedient that provision should be made for the care and maintenance of any Negroes condemned in any court of Vice-Admiralty during the period of appeal from the decision of any such Court. 2. That it is expedient that provision should be made for the care and maintenance of Negroes brought in for adjudication to any of his Majesty's possessions between the period of their being so brought in and any adjudication of the Court."
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he had no objection to give the substance of the Treaty made at Vienna. He would only protest for himself against the course pursued on this occasion being drawn into a precedent. It was the prerogative of the Crown to withhold such information till it could be communicated in a ratified form, and it was much for the public advantage that generally till that time arrived the substance of the engagements entered into should not be made known. At present, however, as he was extremely anxious to guard against any misrepresentation on this subject, he had no hesitation in agreeing to give the information called for by the hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Bennet,  in the absence of his right hon. friend (sir John Newport, who was prevented by illness from attending in his place), rose to move for a call of the House of which his right hon. friend had given notice. He said the present state of Europe, and the great number of important matters which claimed the attention of the House, and particularly the Bill for reviving the Property-tax, against which there had been more petitions than had ever been presented against any measure that was to engage the attention of the House, required that all the members who were not prevented by illness, or other unavoidable misfortunes, should be present. Those numerous petitions, indeed, more than any other cause, rendered this motion the more necessary, because it would thereby enable the people to ascertain which of their representatives attended to their complaints, and which did not attend to them, but in direct opposition to their sentiments supported a measure that had been shown to be so universally odious and obnoxious to the whole mass of the people. He concluded by moving, "That this House be called over on Monday next."
 Lord Castlereagh  agreed in thinking that in the present state of Europe, it was desirable that there should be the fullest attendance of the House. Adverting to several notices on the Order Book, if he might be permitted in his turn to put a question to an hon. and learned gentleman opposite, he wished to know whether he meant to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, respecting Naples, on Tuesday next; and if he knew whether the motion of his hon. and learned friend respecting Genoa would come on upon Thursday next?
 Mr. Bennet  wished to know in what manner, as to time, it was proposed to carry the Property-tax through the House? He was anxious it should be discussed in a full House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  under existing circumstances, thought the call
 [800
 Mr. Bennet  wished to make ah observation on the hurried manner in which it was attempted to pass this Bill. The Bill was read a second time on Friday last; and the members did not receive their their copies of the Bill till after that stage. Although he lived near the House, he did not get his copy till Saturday morning. During the whole of the last century, in which there had been two civil wars, and a war with our colonies, no measure of the kind had ever been resorted to, till the time of the French Revolution. He was not one of those who thought it even then necessary; but would any man say that there was any resemblance between the present period and the period in question? It was a ridiculous dread that was entertained, or affected to be entertained by his Majesty's Government, of foreigners in this country. More information was derived from our newspapers respecting our affairs, than from all the spies put together. But the measure vested the Government with the power of sending out such foreigners as might render themselves obnoxious to them, or those persons whom, they wished to favour. It was converted into an engine of the most oppressive tyranny. He had heard of a meeting in Suffolk-street, of a few miserable Italians, assembled to celebrate the prospects which they thought were brightening up for their country, that had been lately dispersed by a familiar of the Alien office. What
 801]
 Mr. Bennet  said, he wished to know whether it was true, that about eighteen Italians who met in Suffolk-street, among whom was the Chevalier Stocco, the agent of the king of Naples, a person of the name of Petroni, and others, had been arrested by order of Government?
 Mr. Gordon  solicited an explanation of the sums of 1,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Gordon  would wish to know whether there was any diminution in the expenses of the inspection of telegraphs? There were twenty clerks employed in time of war, and surely so many, could not be necessary in time of peace.
 Mr. Bennet  wished to know what was done to compensate captain Usher, or whether there was any measure in progress to do him justice.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the business with regard to captain Usher was in a state of progress.
 Mr. Ponsonby  rose to do justice to the feelings of captain King, who would be the last man in the service to take money for a duty which he did not perform, or to make a demand which was not strictly and honourably correct. Now, the fact was, that instead of his having made one trip from Dover to Calais with those illustrious personages, he had made four or five, and was actually out of pocket several hundred pounds, over and above what he had been allowed for that duty.
 Mr. E. Ward  said, that as to the emoluments of the Astronomer-royal, they were derived from three, sources—from the Admiralty to the amount mentioned in the estimate, from the Ordnance the sum paid was 100 l. l.
 Mr. Ponsonby , in a vein of pleasantry, observed, that he was not quite satisfied as to this affair of the rats; for in the same page in which 4 l. l. s.
 Mr. Forbes  suggested, that a great improvement in the manufacture of cables could be introduced. Though not adopt-
 811] Hope
 Admiral Hope  testified his experience of the goodness of the King's cables. Manual labour might be diminished; but every new plan might not be executed so fast in the King's as in the merchants' yards.
 Mr. Forbes  repeated his own experience of their superior value.
 Admiral Hope  said, it was impossible that we could man a navy of 70 or 80 sail as well as five or six frigates were manned by the Americans. If the number of our ships were as small, we could man them four times over equally well. Our ships had always been found to be better manned than the French, and as well manned as a large fleet could be. The hon. admiral expressed his confidence that the best seamen would be found to come forward with alacrity to serve their country, secured as they were of reward for their services from the liberal measures which had been adopted for that purpose, especially with regard to the institutions at Greenwich and Chatham.
 Mr. Forbes  alluded to the case of masters' mates and midshipmen, which he conceived to be one of extreme hardship, deserving the attention of the House; and observed, that he would, on some future occasion, notice it more particularly.
 Admiral Hope  stated, that it was the intention of the lords of the Admiralty to keep afloat all those young men who had served during the war, as far as it was possible; and for that purpose a double proportion of inferior officers was to be kept up. He pronounced a warm eulogium on the conduct of the British navy, during which the gallant admiral was loudly and repeatedly cheered.
 Admiral Hope,  in corroboration of what fell from the Secretary of the Admiralty, observed, that the standing order was, not to suffer any ship to leave the harbour without her due complement.
 Mr. Forbes  expressed an apprehension that the claims of the midshipmen had not been sufficiently attended to, and therefore he should feel it his duty to bring the subject before the House.
 Mr. Ponsonby  took occasion to panegyrise the justice and policy which dictated an advance of the half-pay of naval officers in 1806; observing, that he should have been better pleased if that advance had gone farther, and adding, that he should feel it his duty, on an early occasion, to make a proposition to the House upon this subject.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that however ungracious it might seem to make any objection to a motion of this nature, he thought it necessary upon such a motion to suggest the propriety of considering the distresses and burthens of our own people, and to impress upon his Majesty's ministers that no French emigrants capable of serving their King in his present emergency, should be encouraged to withdraw from him by the prospect of a provision from this country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the committee, that care would be taken to provide against any such encouragement as the hon. baronet had stated. The fact, however, was, that it was not proposed to provide for any persons from this fund but such as from old age and infirmity were unable to afford any active support to their Sovereign in his present state.
 Mr. Whitbread  asked, whether the proposed vote was in addition to the 15,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered in the affirmative, adding that out of the 15,000 l. l.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that as it had been stated that 1600 emigrants had lately come into the country, he hoped it was not intended by putting them on the Alien list to make those emigrants an additional burthen upon us; for if so, the powers of the Alien Act might be abused, by keeping some foreigners in the country, as they had been heretofore abused by sending other foreigners out of it. The hon. member asked, whether in the course of their government the Bourbons had, according to promise, paid any sum to our Government, as a compensation for the
 [816
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered, that none of them so compensated had again returned. l.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that he understood there was another commission which had been appointed to survey the royal parks and forests, of which a noble lord (Yarmouth), and Mr. Bicknell, solicitor to the Admiralty and the Prince Regent, were the commissioners. He wished to know who appointed those commissioners, or what authority they had to act?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the grant now proposed was the regular compensations to commissioners appointed under an Act of Parliament passed several years ago, for three years services. As to the other commission, it had been laid before the Crown lawyers, to give their opinion as to its validity. l.
 Mr. Tierney  said, he thought there ought to be a more detailed account set forth. He did not mean to say that the sum was too large; but he thought the House ought to be informed of the particulars for which it was given.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  signified his readiness, upon brnging up the report, to lay the required information upon the table.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he thought the Secretaries of State were not sufficiently paid, and that the public would be better satisfied if their salaries were increased, instead of having to come to Parliament for those contingencies.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  repelled the idea that any part of those contingencies was appropriated to the personal uses of the Secretaries of State. They were expended in coals, candles, stationery, and other articles for their offices.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  explained, and said that he had no intention of insinuating any thing like what the right, hon. gentleman seemed to apprehend.
 Mr. Whitbread  inquired, whether it was intended to bring forward, on the present evening, the vote of 9,000 l.
 Mr. Lushington  answered, that the resolution alluded to would not be brought forward until Wednesday next.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, it was necessary to know precisely when the vote would be proposed, since strong objections existed against it. An estate, it appeared, which the present lord Nelson, and several of the commissioners, considered a very eligible one, was offered for a sum which the original vote of Parliament would have covered, and the individual who had the disposal of that estate, conceived that a contract for its purchase had been entered into with him.
 Mr. Rose  said, that when the vote came regularly before the House, he should be prepared to state, what he conceived to be satisfactory grounds for the additional aid of 9,000 l.
 Mr. Whitbread. —Certainly not. All I wish for is, that when the vote is proposed, satisfactory grounds may be staled for the additional grant.
 Lord Nugent  said, he was informed that among our squadron oft the Scheldt in the course of the late war, two sail of the line wanted 130 men each of their full complement, and that the ship of commodore Owen was equally defective.
 Mr. Rose  expressed a hope that the hon. gentleman would not persist in his motion with respect to the midshipmen, as the only effect of such a motion would be to render that deserving class discontented. He had no doubt that the claims of those officers, in whose favour he felt a lively interest, would be duly attended to. A great number of them indeed had already been promoted, and such as were not promoted were to be maintained afloat, so that at all events such meritorious persons should not be turned adrift.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  said, there was a great difference between the present period and that of 1792, because we were then at war with almost all Europe, and now we were in alliance with them alt except France. He objected to granting such extensive powers, which had been abused m the case of Mr. De Berenger and others, and therefore should oppose the going into the committee.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, the hon. gentleman had complained that the Bill had not been printed before the second reading. The Bill, as he formerly stated, was almost a copy  verbatim et literatim [802
 Mr. Horner  assured the noble lord, that he would generally obtain a prompt answer from himself or his friends. His hon. and learned friend (sir James Mackintosh) meant, as he understood, to bring forward his motion on Thursday next; and he himself should bring forward his motion respecting Naples on Tuesday next; and his motion respecting New Orleans the first open day.
 Mr. Addington  replied, that he was altogether unacquainted with the circumstance.
 Mr. Addington  said, that he imagined the hon. gentlemen opposite were hardly aware of the immense influx of foreigners within the last few months. No less than 1600 had arrived since the landing of Buonaparté in France was known, and most of them with passports signed by Buonaparté's government. Was there no reasonable ground for apprehension, especially when it was known, that many of these persons had commissions to purchase arms for the adherents of the new government of France? He did not pretend to say, that this measure would enable ministers to discriminate between the innocent and the guilty, but it would do the next best thing—it would give power to detain them until inquiries were made into their characters and conduct. He had some apology to make to an hon. gentleman for having come into the House while he was speaking; and there was part of the hon. gentleman's speech respecting some Italians in Suffolk-street, which he was just concluding, and which he would be obliged to him to repeat.
 Mr. Croker  replied, that as to the 5,000 l. [806
 Mr. Croker  did not deny but that at the latter period of the war many of the seamen were of a very inferior kind, but asserted positively that no ship ever was sent to a foreign station without having her complement of men.
 Mr. Croker  said, that as soon as they could be exempted from the liability to snap, which they possessed, he hoped they would generally be made use of in the navy.
 Mr. Croker  replied, that the cats were kept in a different yard from that occupied by the rats. But quitting that weighty consideration, and coming to one perhaps as important, he wished to defend the first lord of the Admiralty from any indisposition towards the introduction of machinery into the public works. Among the workmen it was first necessary to explode vulgar prejudices, before this improvement could be made sufficiently operative. This had, however, been in a great degree effected, particularly in the sawing branches of work. A basin was in progress at Sheerness, similar to that of Portsmouth, and two steam-engines were in forwardness. He hoped, in the course of next year, these would be more general, and when their effects were fully visible, that they would be introduced by degrees into the great yards.
 Mr. Croker  explained. He said the situation of paymaster of widows pensions was first regulated under a charter of George the 2nd. A great deal of trouble was involved in the duties annexed to it; for the parties were paid quarterly, and in their several places of residence. An alteration had lately been made in this office, and the present remuneration was agreed upon, in lieu of the emolument arising to the paymaster from the use of the public money which he occasionally held, and which left him a greater profit than his present income. The sum in the estimates was paid to the Astronomer-royal for a nautical almanack, and formed but a small part of his emoluments. The hospital at Yarmouth, if not much used now, before the expedition to Copenhagen, while the Dutch fleet was strong, and. France had a formidable naval establishment at Antwerp, at that time as the eyes of Great Britain were anxiously fixed on the north, was likely to be of great importance. Had that state of things continued, it was likely that hospital would have caused a great saving not merely of money but of human life; and any expense in forming this establishment was well incurred, to avoid having recourse to those wretched places formerly in use,—he meant the temporary hospitals.
 Mr. Croker  said, that the circumstance of the item having been annexed to the name of marshal Blucher alone, might have arisen from his name being first on the list in the warrant, and that it was thought unnecessary, to insert the whole.
 Mr. Croker  said, he had the satisfaction to state, that the moment the case alluded to by the hon. gentleman was represented to the first lord of the Admiralty, measures were taken to place naval officers on the same footing with the officers of the army." l.
 Captain Pellew  said, he had procured one of the other cables in China, which he found unserviceable.
 Mr. R. Ward,  to show the impartiality of the Admiralty Board, cited a case in which he had applied to the first lord in favour of a midshipman, who was a relation of his own; but his application was
 [814
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that it had been much complained of, that while military officers in an enemy's prison were allowed the discount which, from difference of exchange, they were obliged to pay, the same allowance was refused to naval officers in the same situation. He could not conceive how such a distinction could be tolerated upon any principle of equity. He recollected that when a motion was brought forward by an hon. friend of his (Mr. Bennet), to place the officers of both departments on the same footing, when on foreign service, that motion was resisted upon this ground, that naval officers had opportunities of obtaining prize-money, from which military officers were excluded; but no such ground could apply, where neither were in actual service, when both were in a prison. He begged, therefore, to call the attention of the Admiralty to this subject, and trusted that the naval lords would take measures to have justice done to their brethren.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that as an increased number of seamen had been voted, it was a proper occasion to remark, that complaints had been made of the very inadequate manner in which the navy had been manned during the last American war. He hoped in future the Admiralty would proportion the number of ships to the number of good seamen they could procure, so that we might meet the Americans, if a war unfortunately broke out again with that people.
 Mr. Whitbread  hoped they should see the fruits of those visits, though he was aware the greatest obstacle existed to the introduction of improvements, on account of the hostile disposition towards novelties on the part of the old stagers, if they might be called so, of the dock-yards. This opposition was remarkable in the case of the stone basin at Portsmouth, of which the advantage was now universally acknowledged. He was glad to find the hon. baronet restored to good-humour. He did not know there was any more connexion between him and rats, than between him and cats—[A laugh.]
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the advantage in the difference between a machine and manual labour was great. The machine was never drunk, never went off to visit a friend, never was idle when wanted, and always made the same thing in the same way. It was not exposed to the difference arising from various hands. Such was the advantage in Huddart's invention. The anchor forges in the dock-yards, he was convinced, might be improved, and that it might be found unnecessary for a man's hand to wield a hammer. Machinery might effect this, and every blow given would be the same, and money and human labour saved. In Sweden the hammer was worked by water. The steam-engine was applicable to all such purposes. Mr. Brunell or Mr. Maltby would be very able to do what was wanted as well as in the present system of the smitheries.
 Mr. Whitbread  asked, whether it was in contemplation to give the captains of men of war chronometers, which, he said, would be of great use in long voyages.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that as the hon. Secretary had spoken with such confidence, he should refer to the officers from whom he had received his information upon this subject, and take occasion to state the result to the House.
 Mr. Whitbread  was glad that an opportunity had occurred for the gallant admiral's paying a tribute to the petty officers of the navy. Nothing could be more grateful to them, than to know that their services had been duly appreciated. He had heard, however, that there were instances in which ships had been sent to sea without their complements: and in one case, a gallant admiral had actually weighed his men, and sent up the account to the Admiralty, that they might know the state of his crew.
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the minuteness of the estimates was truly laudable, and was carried to such an extent that 4 l. k. 809]
 Mr. Whitbread  was sorry his hon. friend had taken the trouble of explaining his conduct, as he did not think it wanted any explanation. He did not think anything the hon. baronet had said was disorderly, and would wish he had finished his observations. He did not see what relationship the killing of rats had to the hon. baronet. He was sure he had not intended any thing offensive to any gentleman in what he had said on the subject.
 Mr. Whitbread  noticed the great superiority of Huddart's cables, which he had heard naval men say they would sooner trust their lives to, than to the King's-yard cables.
 Mr. Whitbread,  as he understood the noble lord to consent to grant the papers be wished to be laid before the House, supposed he would have no objection to the Address.
 Mr. Whitbread,  seeing the noble lord in his place, rose to read the motion which he proposed to submit to the House. He then read his intended motion, viz. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions, that there be laid before this House, the substance of any treaty or engagement entered into at Vienna on or about the 25th day of March last between the ambassadors of his Majesty and his Majesty's Allies, together with the substance of any note of explanation of any article or articles of the said Treaty or engagement, or of any declaration transmitted by his Majesty's Government to the Court of Vienna explanatory of the views of his Majesty's Government touching such Treaty or engagement, together with the date of the receipt of the said Treaty, and the transmission of the answer thereto on the part of his Majesty's Government, and also of any subsidiary arrangements connected therewith."
 Mr. Giddy  said, that the salary of the, Astronomer-royal had very properly been increased since the death of Dr. Maskelyne, who had a large private fortune; and he thought a still greater increase would be advisable. If the establishment at Flamstead-house was increased, so as to form in some sort a school of astronomy, the expense would be amply repaid by the beneficial influence of such a measure upon astronomical science, as far as it was applicable to naval purposes.
 Mr. W. Smith  took notice of the sum of 602 l. [808 et ceteras
 Mr. W. Smith  rose to order. The hon. baronet must surely feel that he was wholly unjustified in making any personal allusion to his hon. friend, who was merely discharging a public duty, in the inquiries which he had made.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought the income of 600 l. l. l. l. l., l. 807]
 Sir Charles Pole  said, that captain Usher was an officer of the highest merit, and that his services and his wounds deserved from his country the greatest attention.
 Sir G. Warrender  observed, that the preparation of distinct general estimates had only been the practice since many public works had been commenced. As to the Dock-yard items, they were more immediately within the department of his hon. friend, the Secretary to the Admiralty, who would doubtless give the necessary explanation.
 Sir George Warrender  rose. He said, he thought it unnecessary for him in bringing forward the Navy Estimates to go into any great length of detail. Any explanation that the Committee might require he would endeavour to afford. The sums expended for the service of the Navy were divided under two heads, the one consisting of expenses connected with ships afloat, the other with the pay of the civil offices and all expenses connected with ships not afloat. A great reduction had been made in the general expenditure of the Navy, by reducing the number of hands, and by placing officers on half-pay. This, however, caused a very considerable excess to be created under the head of half-pay, amounting to 436,396 l. [804 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 805]
 Sir G. Warrender  said, that as the hon. gentleman had not intended any thing of-
 [810
 Sir George Warrender  said, that he could not avoid noticing the very pointed allusion of the hon. gentleman to him, in his observation on the item for killing rats. He should be always ready to meet the hon. gentleman, not only in that House, but on any other ground.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  stated, that the Admiralty had done much for the meritorious class of officers alluded to by the hon. gentleman, but it had not yet done all that was intended. With regard however to what was urged on the score of length of service, merely as a claim to promotion, he had to observe, that several midshipmen had completed perhaps ten years of service in a French prison, without having seen two years previous service on board; and would any naval officer consider such persons qualified to perform the duties of a lieutenancy?
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that that subject was under the contemplation of the board of Admiralty.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  approved of the mode in practice for making ropes.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  wished to put a few questions relative to some of the items in these accounts: for instance one of 5,000 l. l. l. l. l., l.
 Sir M. W. Ridley,  though glad to hear of good regulations, thought there could be no objection on the other side, to produce or obtain general estimates of the public works in hand.
 Lord Castlereagh  answered, that the object was to destroy the power of Buonaparté, but the Treaty was only binding on the Allies so long as they chose to make it so. Of course they might agree to treat of peace, if they should hereafter think it prudent to do so.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the engagement entered into between the Ailed Powers might be dissolved; but that its object, at the time it was formed, certainly was to destroy the power of Buonaparté, and to make no peace with him.
 Lord Castlereagh .—I think I answered the hon. member's question before. There is a possibility of resorting to the alternative mentioned, because the contracting parties may recede from their engagements; but, as to the probability of such an event, I will leave the hon. gentleman to form his own opinion from the appearance of things.
 Lord Castlereagh  assured the hon. gentleman, that if he wished to take the sense of the House, he had only to make a motion, and that he should be prepared to meet him.
 Lord Castlereagh , under the present circumstances, could not give an answer satisfactory to the House. With respect to Holland, and the arrangements regarding her colonies, it would be premature to enter into any details.
 Lord Castlereagh  maintained the impropriety of entering into the subject at this time.
 Lord Castlereagh  assured the hon. gentleman that no engagement had been entered into in which the interests of the country had not been consulted.
 Mr. Ponsonby , on casting his eye over the Treaty of the 25th of March, had been struck by a paragraph not forming any part of it, but added at the close of it, by which it appeared that the Treaty had been received in this country on the 5th of April and the answer dispatched on the 8th, and that authority and instructions had been given to lord Clancarty at
 [844
 Lord Castlereagh  complained of this system of interrogation, which tended to put the House by anticipation in possession of all the subjects of negociation before they were settled or ratified. What had been or would be done, could not be executed without the consent of Parliament. The right hon. gentleman might well suppose that lord Clancarty had received instructions; but what those were, and the extent of the subsidiary engagement which he was empowered to sign, were matter of negociation with foreign Powers, and it would be premature and improper to force them into discussion.
 Mr. Ponsonby  could see no impropriety either in the question which he had put to the noble lord, or in his giving the explanation he requested. The House would be obliged to make good the subsidies to whatever amount ministers had pledged it; for if would be idle to think that after they had contracted the engagement, it would be found practicable to refuse the supplies. And if the House only knew their amount after the pledge had been given, it would be reduced to the alternative of either breaking the faith of treaties, or else of paying sums which it considered injurious to the country.
 Lord Castlereagh  contended, that the doctrine thus broached, and the system pursued, had a tendency to subvert the constitution, by infringing on the prerogatives of the Crown respecting peace and war.
 Mr. Ponsonby  denied, that what he had said had any such tendency. The Crown had the power of making peace and declaring war, but no authority, in subsidiary treaties, to pledge Parliament to any amount it thought proper. It had no right to interfere in matters of money.
 Lord Castlereagh  stated, that the charge made on the Crown, of its pledging the House, was not founded on fact. Foreign Powers themselves never understood more, by our subsidiary engagements, than that the Crown would recommend to Parliament to grant supplies to the amount required.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it would be improper to lay it before the House, as it was at present under the consideration of the law officers of the Crown. He hoped he should be able in a few days to acquaint the House with the result.
 Lord Yarmouth  said, it was perfectly well known that for a number of years his present Majesty had set an example of farming to the country, which example was followed by the duke of Bedford, Mr. Coke, and others. The King farmed a part of the Royal Park by way of recreation; and the management of it was under different men at different times. Three gentlemen were appointed commissioners, of whom he was one, under a power of attorney. They had done no act which was not done by the former commissioners, and if it pleased God to restore his Majesty, he would receive back his farm in exactly its former state. He considered that an inquiry of this kind was prying into the private concerns of the Sovereign. His Majesty had always kept the wardenship of Windsor Forest unnamed, that the office might not be filled up by ministers. He could not help thinking this sort of prying into the private concerns of the King was rather indecorous. The only expense of the commission was a clerk of the lowest description.
 Lord Yarmouth  said, there had been no ranger of the Great Park since the time of the late duke of Cumberland; and the King would not appoint a ranger or warden, in order that his amusements might not become a subject of inquiry before Parliament.
 Lord Castlereagh  apprehended, that the hon. gentleman did not consider the question as one of mere curiosity; but as no abuse had been alleged, and it had not been shown that the Treasury had been negligent, he did not consider it a subject for the control of Parliament. If his Royal Highness was not so fond of farming as his Majesty, it was not extraordinary that he should appoint persons to superintend the management of the parks. If it should appear, after inquiry had been made, that the Treasury had acted improperly, then the hon. gentleman might interpose.
 Lord Yarmouth  thought it was very plain that his Royal Highness had power to sign the commission.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted that there would be no objection to complete the accounts already upon the table, to a certain date, regarding the erections in Windsor park.
 Sir Charles Burrell  Sir  Charles Burrell [848 l. l. s. d., l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 849]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not object to the motion; but thought that the House would do well not to pledge itself too far, lest the sum necessary for the proposed commutation should be found greater than members would think fit to lay upon the public. The practice complained of prevailed in a greater or less degree in all the Courts of Europe.
 Mr. Davies Giddy  said, he had not come to the House with any view of seconding the motion; but after what he had heard, he could not suffer it to fall to the ground, and would therefore support it. He coincided with a great deal of what had been said by the hon. mover, but yet he expressed his unwillingness to press the extension of the Property-tax to Ireland at present, especially as a committee above stairs was occupied in examining the financial concerns of that country; and he was free to say, that if it should appear to that committee that Ireland was incapable of contributing two-seventeenths of the expence of the united empire, he should be ready to entertain a proposition for reducing that proportion, although it was so settled at the period of the Union.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that he should most willingly have given way to the right hon. baronet (sir J. Newport, who rose at the same time that he did), par-
 [856 857] [858 l. 859] l., l. l. l. l,; l., l.; l., l.; l. l. l., l. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. [860 l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. l., l. l. l.; l., l. l. l., l.; l., l. 861] [862 d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 863] l. l. l. l. s. d. [864 l. 865] l. [866 l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. 867] [868 869] [870
 Sir John Newport  declared, that the right hon. gentleman had so ably vindicated the state and exertions of Ireland, that he had left him little to say. In 14 years since the Union, Ireland had brought into the Exchequer of the country considerably upwards of 60 millions, or more than four millions and a half annually, by taxes, exclusively of what she had been called on to produce by way of loan. He trusted the House would not vote an abstract proposition of this nature, as it would throw a firebrand of irreparable injury between both countries, which would be most fatal to Ireland.
 Mr. Peel  made a few observations in support of the arguments of his right hon. friend, (Mr. V. Fitzgerald). If a tax were proposed, the collection of which was not feasible, it was doing nothing whatever for the country. He thought the Property-tax of England might operate for Ireland as an Absentee tax.
 Sir H. Montgomery  said, he had in all the stages opposed the renewal of the Property-tax, as the means of entering into a new war, which he deprecated as ruinous to the finances and security of the country. He agreed with the Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer, that persons competent to assess and collect the tax in
 871] l.
 Mr. Grattan  observed, that he had heard with the greatest pleasure the able arguments of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland, and that he entirely coincided in opinion with him on the subject.
 Mr. Bankes  replied. After which the House divided:
 
 
 Yeas 5 
 Noes 78 
 Majority —73
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the opinion of the legal advisers of the Crown was required as soon as the point was regularly raised.
 Mr. Bennet  asked whether there would be any objection made to the production of the expenses of the erection of the Thatched Palace in Windsor Great Park?
 Sir C. Burrell  did not think that the sum could be considerable; it might be paid out of the Droits of Admiralty.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  thought, that what his noble friend had stated, namely, that his Royal Highness wished all the farms to remain in the same state as his Majesty left them, was a sufficient reason why no ranger had been appointed.
 Mr. Sumner  said, that if the dignity of the Crown required the abolition of the present fees, he did not think the House would be restrained by motives of parsimony from taking measures to put this part of the household establishment on the same footing with all other parts of it.
 Mr. Tierney  begged to be informed what was the point of law that had now been referred to the Crown lawyers, and why it had not before been decided, when the commission had been so long in existence?
 Mr. Tierney  denied, that by the Act of the 53d George 3, it was intended to give the King a power to break up the parks that were given as a part of the royalty to maintain the dignity of the Crown. No answer whatever had been given, why a ranger of the parks had not been appointed; and he had not heard any thing to prove, that any direct advantage had been gained by a commission.
 Mr. Tierney  said, according to the account of the noble lord, all the forests and parks might be divided into farms. This had never been the case in former times, and he should be glad to know why this new practice had prevailed. By the old practice, his Majesty had been always in the habit of appointing wardens, and there might be some reason for appointing
 [846
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know whether any obligation had been entered into which the noble lord thought binding on this country?
 Mr. Tierney  had not put his question with any reference to a war which might be approaching. Neither did he interfere with the arrangements made with respect to the Dutch colonies. He only asked an explanation of a transaction that had taken place, and whether this country had been subjected to an incumbrance of 2,500,000 l.
 Mr. Tierney  inquired of the noble lord, whether his Majesty's ministers had entered into an engagement to relieve Russia of a part of the debt she had contracted with Holland, to the amount of two millions and a half, and what equivalent this country was to receive?
 Mr. Bankes , in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for certain papers connected with the expenses of the New Mint. His intention of submitting this motion, he observed, had arisen out of the papers which had recently been delivered to the House on this subject. From these papers it appeared, that notwithstanding the immense sum which had been expended on the budding of this magnificent edifice, it was now found that there were a certain number of persons, who it was desirable should live within the building, for whom no accommodations were prepared, and, in consequence, four new dwelling-houses were to be built, at an expense of 4,000 l. [850 2.
 Sir John Simeon  opposed the motion.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  observed, that, early in the present session, he had noticed the dangerous state of the pavement of the metropolis, and he had subsequently obtained leave to bring in a Bill to afford facilities for rendering the pavement better. Nothing, he believed, could be worse than it was at present; however, he was desirous of giving every accommodation to the various parishes, and of preventing any rumour from going abroad, which might impute to him a wish to press on the public
 841]
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that since the noble lord opposite had laid the substance of the Treaty of the 25th March, and the Memorandum, attached to it before the House, he had perused it attentively. He should take the liberty of asking in what sense that part of our explanatory Declaration was to be understood which said that a common effort was to be made against the power of Napoleon Buonaparté, but not to impose a government on France. Was he to understand that war was to be made on Napoleon Buonaparté, and that no peace was to be concluded with him as long as he remained in possession of the supreme authority in France?
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he had rendered his question as plain as possible, and the noble lord as usual had given a reply as equivocal as he possibly could. Those who thought that no peace should be made with Buonaparté would interpret his answer, as stating that war was unavoidable. Those who inclined to the other side of the question would infer from it, that an alternative still remained. His own interpretation was, that the Allies, when they concluded the Treaty, intended to go to war with Buonaparté, and that if they had not yet carried that plan into execution, it was in consequence of some other circumstances which had arisen since, and which the noble lord hoped might be got over, that war should ensue. He wished the House to be well informed on this subject before another message should come down, and that the noble lord should willingly do that which the House would be
 843]
 Mr. Whitbread  felt himself as much as ever at a loss with the answer of the noble lord. When the Address was moved, it was stated that there was an alternative of war or peace; and even down to the present time, except from an occasional loose or unguarded expression which dropped from one or other of the friends of the noble lord, nothing had ever been slated to the House to induce them to think that, there was not still an alternative. He believed it to be understood by those present in the House, who had no suspicion of any delusion, that there was a possible alternative in the existing state of things of war or peace with France. Now how could this be reconciled with the Treaty and explanation on the table?
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that nothing could be plainer than his question, and nothing more obscure and unsatisfactory than the
 [842
 Mr. Whitbread  did not wish to pry into the amusements of the Crown. He had conceived that the power vested in the commissioners was greater than it now appeared to be; but he wished to know why no ranger, who was the old constitutional officer, had been appoint to Windsor park?
 Mr. Whitbread  then moved, "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions, that there be laid before this House, a copy of any commission or instrument, purporting to vest certain powers and authorities in the earl of Yarmouth, John Nash, esq., and Charles Bicknell, esq. respecting the Royal Parks."
 Mr. Whitbread  gave notice that on Friday next he should make a motion on the state of the country relative to peace or war.
 Mr. Whitbread  inquired, whether the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would agree to lay before the House, a copy of the commission granted to lord Yarmouth, Mr. J. Nash, and Mr. C. Bicknell, relative to the Royal Parks, for which he had moved on the preceding evening, and relative to the legality of which some doubts, it appeared, had arisen in the minds of the Lords of the Treasury?
 Mr. Huskisson  remarked, that it would be necessary not only to give compensation to those who had bought their places, but to any persons who derived emolument from the prevailing custom, and more especially to those higher officers of the household, whose emoluments depended upon the sale of the situations of their inferiors.
 Mr. Huskisson  referred the hon. gentleman to the Treasury, which had issued warrants for the money which had been paid in his department.
 Mr. W. Smith  would not concur in laving any great and additional burthen upon the nation for the sake of removing a sŭpposed stigma.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  said he had not the slightest objection to granting the information for which the hon. gentleman had moved. With respect to the houses alluded to, he observed, that it was considered desirable to accommodate a certain number of persons who had been 'imported' from Birmingham, for the purpose of managing the machinery of the new mint, within its walls; but it was found impracticable, notwithstanding the extent of the edifice—hence it was determined to erect the buildings in question, which would be effected with every regard to economy.
 Sir James Mackintosh  understood the noble lord to have given it as his opinion, that for ministers to state beforehand the amount of a subsidiary treaty, would be a subversion of the constitution. [Hear, hear! and No, no! from the Ministerial side.]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was disposed to coincide in the motion. The hon. gentleman's statement of the profit of the Bank was exaggerated; he had not allowed for a great variety of charges.
 875]
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, the agreement which had now taken place between the two sides of the Mouse, had been anticipated by him from their approach to one another in point of numbers on the late vote. He did not think that for a long time a motion had been brought forward so likely to produce solid benefit to the public. He hoped it would be understood that there was no disposition to infringe upon the agreement actually subsisting between Government and the Bank; but he hoped it would be understood also, that no new agreement would be entered into till the House had an opportunity of considering these papers.
 Mr. Baring  expressed his wish that the subject should be postponed to the next session. He complained that Mr. Grenfell's statements were exaggerated.
 Lord A. Hamilton  supported the motion.
 Mr. Marryatt  thought it the duty of the House to take care that the Government did not enter into disadvantageous engagements with the Bank.
 Mr. Grenfell  shortly replied, denying that be had ever intended to interfere with the contract now subsisting with the Bank.
 [876
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he understood that the production of the Papers, which he had moved for on a former evening, respecting the Balances of Public Money in the hands of the Bank of England, would no longer be opposed by the right hon. gentleman opposite. He did not feel it necessary at present to enter at any great length into the subject; but he hoped the House would indulge him a very few minutes while he submitted one or two observations to them. It had been stated the other night, by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that by far the greatest proportion of the Public Balances in the hands of the Bank of England would be found, on examination, to be derived from the Consolidated Fund, and that they were, therefore, beyond the control of the Public. To this doctrine, if by the, control of the public was
 [872 l. l. 873] l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. [874
 Mr. Peter Moore  said, it was a most preposterous proposition, that the public should be obliged to gay the Bank interest for three millions lent to them out of their own money, and leave a balance of nine millions besides. Such a doctrine did not suit the present times, when all classes were borne down by the weight of taxes, The hon. gentleman then went into the consideration of the audit of the public accounts, for which 60,000 l.
 Mr. Manning  said a few words upon the security the Bank possessed in an Act of Parliament, which pledged the faith of the House.
 Mr. Mellish  said, he had voted against the production of the accounts, only because he thought it unjust and unfair that the Act passed so late as March last, by which the public faith was pledged, should be in any iota disturbed.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  agreed perfectly with the right hon. baronet, in his sentiments respecting the measure; but would not have troubled the House with the expression of that feeling, were he not desirous at the same time to state, that the measure should not be considered as one merely ministerial. He thought a number of English members should be introduced, for the purpose of amalgamating the different parts of the representation.
 Lord Castlereagh  began by observing, that after the length and ability of the discussion, he should not have thought it necessary to trouble the House with any observations, were it not for the reflection, that it might be considered a duty in his situation not to suffer a question of this nature to be passed with a silent vote. The subject had been properly divided into two branches, the first of which respected the general policy of the arrangement entered into with regard to Genoa, and the second involved the far more important question, whether or not a breach of faith had been committed by the British Government? The hon. and learned mover's, argument, however elo-
 [944 945]
 Lord Castlereagh  resumed, and observed, that there could be no objection to his stating the substance of a document, which, if moved for, would be laid on the table. *
 Colonel Barry  thought county members should preponderate in the formation of the Committee.
 Mr. Charles Grant  jun. rose and said, that it was somewhat extraordinary to hear gentlemen on the other side of the House express so much affection for ancient institutions and old establishments, since they had, for twenty years past been giving advice to the House to acquiesce in all those acts which were calculated to overthrow every ancient establishment in Europe. He hoped his hon. and learned friend, who had that evening expressed himself so strongly in favour of ancient institutions, would always continue to hold the same opinion. With respect to the great question before the House, he agreed with his hon. and learned friend, that the good faith of the country was what they ought to look to with an anxious eye. In comparison
 [936 937] [938 939]
 Lord Binning  could not allow the House to separate without defending his respected friend, sir J. Dalrymple, against the suspicion of democratical sentiments, or levity of conduct, in what he had said respecting the fall of the aristocracy. His language had been misunderstood.
 Mr. Speaker ;—I now rise, pursuant to my notice, to discharge the most arduous, and certainly the most painful public duty which I have ever felt myself called to perform. I have to bring before the House, probably for its final consideration, the case of Genoa, which, in various forms of proceeding and stages of progress, has already occupied a considerable degree of our attention. All these previous
 [892 * * 893] * * †By Earl Bathurst. [894 895] Sic fortis Etruria crevit. [896 897] [898 * * †24 April 1689, advising a declaration of war. ‡21 March 1701. ║ 27 Nov. 1705; 22 Dec. 1707; both Houses, "that no peace can be safe while any part of the Spanish monarchy is under the Bourbons." 3 Mar. 1709; 18 Feb. 1710. 899] * * [900 †"All the Powers engaged on either side in the present war, shall, within the space of two months, send Plenipotentiaries to Vienna, for the purpose of regulating in general Congress the arrangements which are to complete the provisions of the present Treaty." 901] [902 903] [904 905] * * [906 907] [908 909] [910 911] [912 913] [914 915] [916 jus postliminii * * "If the last conqueror, not being an ally of the state, claims a right to retain it under his authority as the prize of victory, he puts himself in the place of the conqueror, and becomes the enemy of the oppressed state. That state may legitimately resist him, and avail herself of a favourable occasion to recover her liberty. A state unjustly oppressed ought to be re-established in her rights by the conqueror who delivers her from the oppressor."† Whoever carefully considers the above passage, will observe that it is intended to be applicable to two very distinct cases:—that of deliverance by an ally, where the duty of restoration is strict and precise,—and that of deliverance by a state unallied but not hostile, where in the opinion of the writer the re-establishment of the oppressed nation, is at least the moral duty of the conqueror, though arising only from our common humanity, and from the amicable relation which subsists between all men, and all communities, till dissolved by wrongful aggression. It is to the latter case that the strong language in the second part of the above quotation is applied. It seems very difficult, and it has not hitherto been attempted to resist its application to the case of Genoa. †Vattel, Book 3, c. 14, s, 213. 917] [918 919] [920 Ergo pari voto gessisti bella Juventus? Tu quoque pro Dominis et Pompeiana fuisti Non Romana Manus! 921] [922 923] [924 925] [926 —"A gift of that which never can be given, all the blended powers of Earth and Heaven!" 927] [928 * * 929] another Iliad of woes to Europe. * * If the following passage could be supposed to have been written by Mr. Burke, or by his suggestion, it would be a still more extraordinary instance of distant foresight. "The free states and cities of Germany may seem to be more immediately affected by the present extraordinary transaction than any other part of Europe. Indeed, if the partition of Poland takes place in its utmost extent, the existence, of the Germanic body, in its present form, for any length of time, will be a matter rather to be wished than expected." Annual Register, 1772, p. 3. The sequel of the passage is very deserving of perusal, and would do no discredit to the power of thinking, or the talent for composition, of the best writer. [930 * * 931] [932 1. "That it appears to this House, that the earl Bathurst, one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, in consequence of information which had been received by the British Government respecting the disposition of the inhabitants of Genoa and Piedmont, did, by a letter dated the 28th of December, 1813, instruct lieutenant-general lord William Bentinck, 'if any circumstances should occur to en-courage the inhabitants to rise against the Government of France, to lose no time in giving every possible assistance, and further, provided it were clearly with their entire concurrence, to take possession of Genoa, in the name and on the behalf of his Sardinian Majesty.' 2. "That it further appears to this House, that lieutenant-general lord William Bentinck, acting under the aforesaid instructions, did, sometime previous to the 14th of March, 1814, disembark at Leghorn with the British forces under his command, and did on that day issue a proclamation, calling on the Italians 'to vindicate their own rights and to be free, and concluding with these words, Only call, and we will hasten to your relief, and then Italy, by our united efforts, will become what she was in her most prosperous periods, and what Spain now is.' 3. "That it further appears, that previous to the 26th of April, 1814, the inhabitants of Genoa having been invited 'to vindicate their rights' as aforesaid, and, in consequence of such invitation, having materially contributed to oblige the French garrison to surrender that city, lord William Bentinck entered Genoa, and issued, on the said 26th of April, a proclamation of the following tenor: 933] 'Considering that the general desire of the Genoese nation seems to be to return to that ancient form of government under which it enjoyed liberty, prosperity, and independence; and considering likewise that this desire seems to be conformable to the principles recognized by the High Allied Powers, of restoring to all their ancient rights and privileges, I declare:—1. That the Genoese State, such as it existed in 1797, with such modifications as the general wish, the public good, and the spirit of the original constitution of 1576 seem to require, is re-established. 3. That a Provisional Government, consisting of thirteen individuals and formed into two colleges, as heretofore, shall immediately be appointed, and shall continue in office until the 1st of January, 1815, when the two colleges shall be filled up in the number required by the constitution. 6. That the two colleges shall propose to the lesser and greater councils, all the measures which they shall judge necessary for the entire re-establishment of the ancient form of government.' 4. "That in a letter to lord Castlereagh, one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, enclosing the afore-said Proclamation, and informing him of the measures which had been taken in consequence 'of the unanimous desire ex-pressed by the Genoese to return to their ancient state, lord William Bentinck did, amongst other things, represent, that the Genoese universally desired the restoration of their ancient republic; and that they dreaded, above all other arrangements, their annexation to Piedmont, to the inhabitants of which there had always been a peculiar aversion.' 5. "That it does not appear that any subsequent dispatch or instruction from lord Castlereagh, or any other of his Majesty's ministers did convey to lord W. Bentinck the opinion of the British Government, that he had exceeded his powers in issuing the said Proclamation of the 26th of April, 1814, or in the proceedings consequent thereon; and that, in point of fact, the said Proclamation has never been disavowed in any public act of his Majesty's Government, or by any letter, dispatch, or instruction to lord William Bentinck, or by any Declaration to the Genoese people. 6. "That it appears, that on the 11th of May a forcible representation was made to lord Castlereagh by M. Pareto, the minister
 [934 7. "That similar representations of the wishes and hopes of the Genoese, together with further representations of the injury which would be done to them by the transfer of their territory to a foreign dominion, not only as it would affect their rights and liberties, but their commercial interests, and the internal prosperity of their country, were repeatedly and at various times submitted to his Majesty's Government, and more particularly in a paper of Observations communicated by M. Pareto, on the 18th of May, and in a protest against 'any resolutions that 'might be taken contrary to the rights 'and independence of Genoa,' laid before their excellencies the Ambassadors and Ministers assembled at the Congress at Vienna, on the 10th December 1814, by the Marquis de Brignoli, the minister plenipotentiary and envoy extraordinary of that Government. 8. "That notwithstanding these repeated claims and remonstrances, and in violation of the solemn engagements contracted by lord William Bentinck on the part of the British Government with the Genoese people, it appears that lord Castlereagh, in a letter dated the 17th December, 1814, in which was enclosed, 'The final decision of the Powers who signed the Treaty of Paris, annexing the State of Genoa, under certain conditions, to the Crown of Sardinia, did instruct lieutenant-general sir John Dalrymple, then commanding the British forces in Genoa, to take the necessary measures, in concert with the existing Provisional Government, to deliver over the same, in conformity with the decision above mentioned, to the King of Sardinia, or to 'such persons as his Sardinian Majesty
 935] 9. "That it appears, that in conformity to the foregoing instructions, the Government of Genoa was delivered over accordingly, by sir John Dalrymple, to the officers appointed to take charge thereof by his Sardinian Majesty, and that the submission of the Genoese to this transfer of their Government and territory to a foreign power, was secured and enforced, and is still maintained by the continued occupation of that city by a British force. 10. "That the conduct of his Majesty's Government, in thus availing itself of the occupation of the Genoese territory by a British force, which they owed in a considerable degree to the amicable disposition of the inhabitants, in order to make a compulsory transfer of the possession and sovereignty thereof to a foreign power, was not only a violation of the promises held out in lord William Bentinck's Declaration of the 14th of March, and of the implied engagement by which the British troops were received by the Genoese nation as deliverers, but also a manifest breach of the public faith expressly pledged to that Republic by his Majesty's general, sufficiently authorised to that effect, and never disavowed by his Majesty's Government; and that this measure was also wholly repugnant to those general principles of policy and justice, which it was equally the interest and the duty of this country to uphold in all the discussions respecting a final settlement of the affairs of Europe."
 The Speaker  having read the list of the members proposed to form the committee,
 Lord A. Hamilton  contended, that there was a co-operation on the part of the Genoese, and supported the motion.
 Mr. W. Bathurst  contended, that the instructions which were sent out to lord William Bentinck indicated clearly that no co-operation of the British force was to be attempted, unless the Italians should previously rise. He denied that lord William Bentinck bad, or that even the Government of this country could delegate to him, the power of inviting the Italians to assert their independence, as that must depend entirely upon the final decision of Congress. All the facts which were communicated in the papers, clearly proved, he thought, that the government established at Genoa by lord William Bentinck, was merely provisional; and as to the question of bad faith on the part of this Government, be had no hesitation in affirming that no case was made out.
 Mr. Cooper  had no objection to gratify the desire of the worthy baronet.
 Mr. Cooper  having moved, "That the entry in the votes of the House of yesterday, of the appointment of a select committee to examine the copies of the Grand Jury Presentments of Ireland, which were presented to the House upon the 5th day of this instant April, and to report the same, with their observations thereupon, to the House," might be read; and the same being read, the hon. member next moved, That the number of the said committee be twenty-one.
 Mr. Wrottesley  said, he had heard the question agitated on a former evening; and as far as he could judge, the present committee would not effect the purpose designed.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said, that the eloquent, luminous, and comprehensive speech of his hon. and learned friend, who made the motion, had left no part of this great question untouched, and that, therefore, he should not feel it necessary long to trespass upon the attention of the House. His Majesty's ministers were, in his opinion, placed in this dilemma upon the subject under consideration, namely, either that lord William Bentinck had held out, according to his instructions, a promise to the Italian people which, in the case of Genoa, had been grossly violated, or that that noble lord had acted without authority. But it was evident that lord William Bentinck was authorized by his instructions to act as he had done, and it was equally evident that this gallant officer's pledges to Genoa had been abandoned in such a way as to fix an indelible stain upon the good faith and honour of this country. He would, however, pass over all these subjects, which had been already so admirably discussed by his hon. and learned friend, and proceed to the proclamation of lord William Bentinck,
 [940 941]
 Mr. R. Ward  said, he had listened with much attention to the hon. and learned mover of the subject before them, and with much satisfaction to the able speech of his hon. friend who spoke second in the debate. The former was full of brilliancy—the latter full of argument. It strongly reminded him of the observation of the Cynic, that one ounce of good sense was worth a pound of declamation—and, indeed, the one speech was worth ten of the other. The whole of the arguments upon
 [942 943]
 Mr. William Smith  said, he was ready to meet the hon. gentleman who spoke last on the point whether we were at peace or war with Genoa. Lord Bathurst in his letter to lord William Bentinck said, that if it was clear it could be done with the entire concurrence of the inhabitants, he might take possession of Genoa. Now, if we had been at war with Genoa, should he have considered this concurrence necessary? The hon. member reprobated, in the strongest terms, the fulsome address of the Council of Genoa to the King of Sardinia; and after observing upon the violation which was offered to the independent rights of the Genoese Republic, concluded by expressing his entire concurrence in the motion.
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose and spoke in substance as follows:
 Sir James Mackintosh  replied at so late an hour, and in a speech of such length, that no account of what he said was preserved. Among the matters to which he principally adverted, and the arguments on which he seemed chiefly to rely, were the following: * [946 947] [948 949] * * Downing-street, July 18th, "An exchange is now offered for Sicily, and it is in that view, and not in that of an absolute and uncompensated cession, [950 that the question is to be considered. In this shape of the business it is obvious, that the value of that exchange must be to be judged of, not only by this country and by Russia, but also by his Sicilian Majesty. As the King, whose troops were 951] admitted into Sicily for its defence and protection, naturally feels insuperable objections to any proposal for abandoning that island, unless with the free and full consent of its Sovereign, and in consequence of such arrangement as should provide for his interests by a compensation really satisfactory both in point of value and of security. "The plan of creating for him a new kingdom, to consist of Dalmatia, Ragusa, and Albania, does not appear likely to answer this description. Albania, which forms so large a part of this proposed sovereignty, is now a province of the Turkish empire, the dismemberment of which it is a principal object of the policy of Great Britain to prevent. That province has, indeed, been frequently involved in the same sort of confusion which prevails in many other parts of that empire. But this circumstance only increases the difficulty of giving any consistence to a state to be formed out of such materials. It does not lessen the other objections to such a plan. "There are in like manner many and strong objections to that part of the proposal which respects Ragusa—an independent state, whose territory has never been ceded to France, by any Treaty, [952 and of which she can consequently have no right to dispose, her occupation of it being indeed of very recent date. "If there could, with the consent of his Sicilian Majesty, be any question of an exchange for Sicily, by the creation of a new state in that quarter; it is obvious that this could no otherwise be done than by annexing to Dalmatia not only the whole of Islria, but also a very large portion, if not the whole of the Venetian states, including, if possible, the city of Venice itself. "In some such shape as this it is possible that the proposition might be rendered not wholly unacceptable to his Sicilian Majesty. And although the interests of this country separately would be far less consulted by such a plan than by the continued occupation of Sicily, yet the sense which the Russian minister at Paris appears to entertain of the advantage which might result from it to Austria and Russia from the recovery of Dalmatia, if it were well combined with future arrangements of defence, might induce his Majesty to accede to proposals of this description, on the supposition above mentioned of a  bonâ fide 953]
 Sir James Mackintosh,  in explanation, declared, that he never meant to apply the words which he used to the intentions of sir J. Dalrymple, but only to his language; and after what he had been privately told by his noble friend, he could not doubt that sir J. Dalrymple could not have intended to employ the language in the sense which seemed to him so extremely objectionable.
 Sir John Newport  spoke to order, and objected to the noble lord's availing himself of his official situation to read partial documents which were not accessible to the other side.
 Sir John Newport  was well convinced that the present was a subject worthy of a serious and careful examination, but thought that it was brought forward in a mode not calculated to obtain the object in contemplation. The Government should not interfere with it, nor should the Committee consist exclusively of Irish members. He feared that prejudices might insensibly operate to counteract the advantages expected to result from the proposed measure. The sums raised were very considerable, and pressed heavily on a particular class of the community; it was a land-tax to a very considerable amount, and all disposed of by the several juries. On this account he thought that it should be anxiously considered, and that the
 891]
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that there were only four English members; whereas he thought no less than eight should be nominated, for the purpose of insuring an attendance. All those now mentioned were professional gentlemen, who could not be expected to attend punctually. He hoped, therefore, the list would be amended.
 Mr. Rose  adverted to the great abuses which existed in the mad-houses in England, and pointed out the necessity of the subject being brought under the examination of the House. Among the variety of cases which had recently come to his knowledge, and which proved the necessity of this proceeding, was that of a young woman, who, although in such a situation as to require some restraint, was yet perfectly innocent and harmless. This young woman was found chained to the ground by the leg and arm, a degree of cruelty which was in no respect justified. The right hon. gentleman, with the view of correcting such practices, moved, "That a Committee be appointed to consider of provision being made for the better regulation of Mad-houses in England; and to report the same, with their observations thereupon, to the House"—The motion was agreed to.
 Mr. Whitbread , before the present motion should be agreed to, wished to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was his intention to bring on the discussion respecting the Property-tax, before the motion of which he had given notice for that night, as this was one of the nights on which orders preceded notices and whether, out of cour-
 955]
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, be would not press the measure, if this was any object to the hon. gentleman: though he conceived the taxes which he had to propose, would not occupy much of the time of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  signified, that he was not inclined to waive his right of priority. He conceived that it was not very probable that any debate would take place to-night, on the subject of the Property-tax.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that when the right hon. gentleman considered the important nature of the subject of his motion, with which the renewal of the Property-tax was most intimately connected, he was rather astonished at the refusal he had met with, more especially after the bravado of the noble lord, whom he did not then see in his place (lord Castlereagh), a few nights ago, of his (Mr. W.'s) shrinking from his motion, and of the facilities which he would afford. The regulation on which the right hon. gentleman relied, had never obtained his (Mr. W.'s) assent, though he should only be disposed to infringe it on an important occasion like the present. The answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland had been perfectly satisfactory, and therefore he would not oppose the going into committee ways and means. But if the right hon. gentleman should think proper, in direct violation of the promise of Facilities by the noble lord, and to which he himself acceded, to persist in wishing to precede him, he was determined to take the sense of the House; whether they would proceed with the Property-tax at that time or not. He had no objection to its coming on after his own motion should have been discussed.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  rose, for the purpose of submitting to the House some addition to the taxes of Ireland. He was aware that in bringing forward such a subject, objections would arise to his not accompanying it by a general statement of the finances of that country. Such a statement it was his intention hereafter to make; but for the present he hoped the House would do him the justice of believing, that nothing but the necessity of the measure could have induced him to
 [956
 Sir John Newport  said, he Was willing to give the right hon. gentleman every Credit for the motives by which he was actuated on the present occasion, and he was equally willing to allow that the task of imposing new taxes on Ireland was extremely difficult. To any addition to the assessed taxes of Ireland, however, he had at all times objected, from a conviction that such a measure would only tend to augment the evil under which that country already laboured in a most lamentable degree—he meant the absence of those gentry who by their residence in their native land would contribute towards its prosperity and wealth. That was the great and crying evil by which Ireland was afflicted; and which, he was sorry to say, every day accumulated more and more. The right hon. gentleman on the present occasion, in proposing an equalization of the assessed taxes, seemed to have forgotten that the
 957]
 Mr. Bankes  said, that as his objections to the financial system of Ireland were of a general nature, he should postpone any observations which he had to make upon this subject till the right hon. gentleman brought forward the financial statement to which he had alluded. He could not help repeating what he had said on a former night, however, that the contributions of Ireland, in the way of public revenue, were by no means equal to her proportionate share of the burthens of the United Kingdom.
 Sir John Newport  contended, that Ireland had borne her fair proportion of the burthens of the State; and as a proof of this assertion, he referred the hon. gentleman to the documents which had been laid on the table of the House within the last fortnight.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, in answer to what had fallen from the right hon. baronet, that the material result of an additional duty on any article was a diminution to a certain extent. The increase, however, was to be set against the probable diminution, and that it was which must decide the application of the tax. With respect to the proposed increase of the assessed taxes, he bad calculated its produce to amount to 250,000 l. l. s. l. l.,
 Sir John Newport  abstained from offering any further objection to these measures now—reserving himself for those opportunities which the different stages of the bills through the House would afford.
 Mr. Whitbread  now repeated his question as to whether, the right hon. gentleman meant to persevere in his intention of moving the committee on the Property-tax, previous to the consideration of the motion of which he had given notice for that night, and which tie could not but consider of paramount importance. It was true, by a resolution of that House, come to so far back as the year. 1810, but to which he had never given his sanction, that on that day orders had precedence of notices. Nevertheless he could not help saying, that this resolution was one likely to be productive of great inconvenience, and one which, in future, might cramp and fetter the freedom of discussion. Previous to this resolution, which had been introduced by Mr. Perceval under peculiar circumstances, that of the public business being retarded by the examination of two subjects, to which it was not necessary to allude, notices always had precedence, inasmuch as, by the rules of the
 959]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the House would recollect, that the committee on the Property-tax had already been postponed for three days; he was unwilling, therefore, to pass over that day without putting it through another stage. If he was to understand that it would be allowed to pass through that stage without discussion, he had no objection to its coming either before, or after, the hon. gentleman's motion.
 Mr. Barham  begged that it might be understood that this was not the only order of the day which had precedence of the hon. gentleman's motion. There was another order in which he was concerned, and which he considered of some importance; but whatever was the feeling of the House; he should be most willing to adopt; yet he still felt he was entitled, under the resolutions which had been adopted by the House, to lay in his claim to precedence.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  was also interested in an order of the day—the committee on the Insolvent Debtors Bill—which, however, he would willingly postpone for the convenience of the House.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  likewise laid claim to a priority of attention on the order of the day for the further consideration of the report of the Pillory Abolition Bill; but, like other gentlemen, was not desirous of pertinaciously pressing this subject to the exclusion of business which might be considered of greater importance.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he was not surprised that the hon. member, whose opinions on the subject of peace were so well known, should have brought forward the present motion; but he should be indeed astonished, if the House, after the opinions it had expressed, and with a knowledge of the sentiments entertained by the country, should agree to such an Address. The nature and effect of the proposition before them could not be disguised, if they concurred with the hon. gentleman. It was impossible for any one to concur with the hon. gentleman, who did not so completely see his way through all the arduous circumstances of the present state of things, as to have made up his mind, not merely that armed preparation was better than open war, but that it would be wise and
 [972 973] [974 975] [976 977] [978 979] sine quâ non [980
 Lord Althorpe  argued in support of the motion. He doubted much whether it was practicable to destroy the power of Buonaparté for he thought Buonaparté might very easily convince the French people, that the treaty which had been entered into against him, had for its object not only to force him from the throne, but to restore the Bourbons. The mere ascendancy of Buonaparté was not, in his opinion, so great a mischief as the military system in France, which seemed to be so much dreaded; and what, he would ask, was so likely to encourage and strengthen that military system, as keeping France in a state of war?
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that he was one of those who had voted for the Address, and he therefore had great reason to complain of the conduct of the noble lord that night. The noble lord had acknowledged that he was in possession of the Treaty now in substance communicated to the House, two days before that Address was moved;
 981] [982 983] [984 985] sine qua non [986 987]
 Mr. Robinson  thought that Buonaparté, by his breach of the Treaty of Fontainbleau, had given a clear unqualified right to this country to go to war with him. Much had been said about the change that the reverses had wrought in Buonaparté's disposition. But how did he prove this change on his first entrance into France? On the 12th of March he issued a decree from Lyons, proscribing a certain number of individuals over whom he had no right whatever. This showed no great change from his wonted ferocity—no great spirit of mildness, of mercy, of forgiveness. He had abdicated the throne, and before he had even reseated himself on it, he proscribed persons not at all subject to him. It was said he was surrounded by persons favourable to liberty. But he believed that those who had once been the strongest advocates for liberty, had been amongst his basest and most fawning sycophants. He did not attach much value to the support they now gave, as he was satisfied they would be again ready to change, if circumstances changed. It had been asked, why we should not now be content with the Peace of Paris? This Peace of Paris had only been concluded on the understanding that Buonaparté had for ever abdicated his pretensions to the throne of France. He admitted that in our present situation we had only a choice of evils; but he maintained, that by far the less evil was to avail ourselves of the existing confederation, of the concentrated force of united Europe, in order to endeavour to destroy that power which threatened the tranquillity of the world. Our means for doing this were ample, and our situation much better than that in which we were even at the successful termination of the late war. It was true,
 [994
 Mr. Philips  supported the motion. He deprecated the want of precaution on our part to prevent the return of Buonaparté to France, and censored the general policy of ministers.—[This speech was interrupted by loud cries of 'Question, question!']
 Mr. Tierney  said, that if it might be
 991] [992 993]
 Mr. J. Smyth  spoke in favour of the Address, and contended that the war would be a war of aggression against France, and could not be justified on any rational grounds.
 Mr. R. Gordon  supported the motion.
 Mr. Whitbread  rose, in pursuance of his notice to move, an Address to the Prince Regent upon the subject of the threatened war with France. He rejoiced at the concession made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because not only the subject itself was of great importance, but it was of the utmost consequence that it should be discussed without a moment's delay. He did not imagine that it would; be necessary to detain the House at any considerable length on a question which lay in a compass so narrow, namely, whether the House would consent to embark the country in a new war, the termination, of which no human being could foresee. The principle was as narrow as the question; it was now, for the first time, avowed, and Parliament was called upon to decide, whether it would take advantage of that opportunity afforded by the disclosure of certain documents—much to the benefit of mankind, but little to the credit of the noble lord.—for a deliberation on this great subject—whether it would avail itself of the short interval that now remained in order to enter a protest against embarking this country in a war upon a principle so narrow, by voting an Address, praying the Prince Regent to avert a calamity so dreadful. He begged leave to recall the attention of the House to its own proceeding on this day three weeks, when an Address was proposed by the noble lord in the blue ribbon in consequence of a Message from the Throne. To that Address he (Mr. W.) had suggested an amendment, which was rejected by the House, on a distinct understanding from the noble lord, that the die was not yet cast, and that there still remained an alternative for this country, which alternative was, whether we should avail ourselves of the abstract right of commencing war, or whether it would, not be more consistent with sound policy to act merely upon a defensive system? It was not at all times easy to comprehend the meaning of the noble lord, if meaning were intended—but if any thing could be collected from the words he employed, it was that there still remained that alternative [Hear, hear!]. Mr. Whitbread put it to many of his right honourable and honourable friends round him, whether they would have voted against his amendment, unless they had expressly understood from the noble lord that it was unnecessary, because his Majesty's ministers had given their
 961] [962 963] [964 965] [966 967] [968 969] coup de main.
 Mr. Whitbread , in reply, said, that notwithstanding the explanation of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Wellesley Pole), he confessed that he was still of opinion that it would have been far more to the credit of the duke of Wellington not to have signed the Declaration in question, even with the interpretation which had been
 [996 997]
 Mr. Coke (of  Norfolk,  supported the motion. He could not help thinking, that those who were abettors of the war with France, on the present occasion, were the enemies, and not the friends of their country.
 Mr. William Elliot  said he wished studiously to guard himself, in any thing he might say, from being understood as recommending war, though at the same time that he could not recommend war, it was impossible for him, and he trusted the House would feel it impossible, to advise a negociation with Buonaparté, or that this country should withdraw from the great continental confederacy. The question before them resolved itself into two obvious branches, first, as to right, and secondly, as to expediency. In his view of the first branch, the Allies not only had a right to go to war, but they had a sort of selection of the grounds of war. They had a ground of war against Buonaparté for breaking the Treaty of Fontainbleau; and they had a ground of war against the French people for suffering a violation of the Treaty of Paris, the security of which was founded upon the abdication of Buonaparté. He must decidedly maintain the principle, that a nation had a right to interfere with the government of another country, the construction and practice of which were hostile, or likely to be hostile, to the general peace and welfare of other nations. This was according to the law of nations. What was the grand alliance, but to prevent the union of the crowns of France and Spain in the same family, and so far interfering with the internal affairs of Spain? What was the Triple Alliance, the Quadruple Alliance, and the Pragmatic Sanction? They were, all of them, founded upon, the recognition of that principle.
 [988 989]
 Mr. Wellesley Pole , having succeeded with difficulty in obtaining a hearing, said, that he had only one appeal to make to the hon. gentleman who made the motion, and one declaration to communicate to him, which he hoped, would give as much satisfaction to the hon. gentleman as to every man else. In the animadversions on the Declaration of the 13th of March, repeated that night, he had stated it as sanctioning the murder and assassination of Buonaparté, and he had lamented that the name of Wellington should have been disgraced by signing such a paper. He (Mr. P.) happened to be with the duke of Wellington when the report of the hon. gentleman's speech reached him; and never was a man so shocked as he then was, that one of his countrymen—one who had either known, seen, or heard of him—should have supposed that he signed a paper bearing such, a construction, or that he could possibly give it such a construction. His only understanding was, that Buonaparté had forfeited all his political rights. At the time, it was not known whether it was Buonaparté's intention to endeavour to regain the throne of France, or whether
 995]
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, he saw difficulties and dangers surrounding both sides of the present question, and that he never found himself in a greater dilemma as to the course he should pursue. His embarrassment, however, did not arise in any degree from the motion of his hon. friend, because he saw strong and conclusive arguments against it. He felt all the peril and imminent evils attendant upon a military leader in France, who must necessarily infuse into the military character of that nation, new energies, and direct them to extensive plans of warfare; but yet he could not say that he felt that peril so strongly as to think himself justified in lending his support to carrying on the war upon that ground alone. He knew how easy it was to begin wars, and with what flattering delusions their successes were anticipated; but he knew also how, in the progress of those wars, clouds arose to darken and obscure them, which did not at first appear in the horizon. With respect to Buonaparté and the power he possessed, he feared, from the facts disclosed of his progress through France, that too large a proportion of the population was favourable to him. Of his character, he had but one opinion. He placed no confidence in the predictions of his improvement; for though there had been a large expenditure of bad passions in him, yet there still remained a fund of evil which was inexhaustible, he feared. He should not think he honestly discharged his duty if he did not say that he thought a peace with Buonaparté would be only a peace in name. He nevertheless felt serious apprehensions, when he considered the uncertainty of all wars. As to the particular question, he supposed that his hon. friend would not be anxious to press it. He had probably brought the motion forward, merely to give the House an opportunity of delivering their sentiments on the general question of peace or war.
 Mr. Quin  had yet heard nothing to persuade him that the people had any share in the return of Buonaparté he had found an active army and a passive people. If we did not go to war, we should have an armed peace, and France would then have all the advantage. Buonaparté could not be believed to be actuated by a sincere desire for peace. He was an enemy to this country from envy of our free constitution, and our commercial greatness. The struggle might be arduous, and the event hazardous, yet he deprecated the idea of our abandonment of the policy of our Allies.
 Sir Frederick Flood  said, he wished for peace with France, but he did not wish for peace with an outlaw and a rebel; and in that character only could he regard the present Ruler of France. He considered that the most transcendent abilities had, in the late contest, been displayed, both in the cabinet and in the field, and was happy to recognize as his countrymen a Castlereagh and a Wellington. The present was a question of a delicate nature; yet he could not help thinking the whole country ought to go heart and band together in overturning the usurpation of Buonaparté.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  seconded the motion. He thought it was not the part of this country to inquire into the particular government of France, nor into her power to settle who should be at its head. If the principle of not interfering with the concerns of other nations had not been recognised before, we should not have the constitution which we now possessed. The Declaration of the 13th of March bound the Allies to join against the designs of Napoleon Buonaparté but the circumstances in which he was placed were now widely changed. By the third article of the Treaty it was stipulated, that his attempts to regain the supreme authority in France should be prevented; but he was now in full possession of that sovereign power, and we had no right to trample on the affections of the French people, nor on the laws which they were pleased to make for themselves. The explanatory Declaration of the Prince Regent pledged us not to seek to impose any particular government upon France;
 [970 971]
 Sir John Newport  said, he differed from his right hon. friend (Mr. Ponsonby), and also from the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, in various points. He was not convinced that the dangers which threatened this country were such as had been described. The dangers that might grow out of an armed peace could not but be infinitely augmented by a state of war; for no man could for see when the war, if once begun, would terminate. If the hope of restoring the Bourbons could be realised, what security was there that they could again keep their situations? They had been restored, and they could not keep their situations. It was the pressure from without from the earliest period of the war, when the duke of Brunswick issued his proclamation, that had made France a military country: and however great might have been our former difficulties, they would bear no comparison with those we should have to encounter, as they would now be insuperable from the exhausted state of our finances. The last coalition against Buonaparté had only prevailed in consequence of the insane projects of that man, who had reduced France to such a situation that her resources were paralysed; and yet the Allies were obliged to make terms with him, for fear, as was now admitted, that he should turn round and overcome them. For his part, ho. could see no hopes but in an immediate and successful effort against France; and if this should not succeed, in two or three years, we should find the foreign Powers detaching themselves from the cause one after another, till at last we should be left alone to maintain the tremendous and desperate
 [990
 Mr. Abercrombie  confessed that he thought the arguments of the right hon. gentleman opposite were unanswerable against the proposition of introducing any clause to exempt particular classes from the operation of the Property-tax. As long as the the measure should be deemed necessary, its operation ought to be uniform, reserving the power only, if in the course of time it should unfortunately be made a permanent impost, to consider how far it
 1021]
 Mr. Forbes  supported the motion, and, adverting to the situation of the navy on foreign stations, especially the East Indies, expressed a wish that some practicable mode could be devised for enabling the sailors to receive their pay through the medium of the East India Company. At present, the only way they could obtain it was, by taking slops of the purser at nearly double their value, and turning them into money by afterwards selling them at one half.
 Mr. Rose  said, that an arrangement such as was alluded to by the hon. member had been under the consideration of Government, but was found impracticable. With respect to the necessity of taking slops from the purser, those slops were contracted for by the Navy-board, at the lowest possible price, and they were of the best materials.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his opinion, that the arguments of his gallant friend applied rather to some general revision of the naval and military service, than to the specific motion which he had brought forward. With respect to the clause which had been introduced in the time of king William, he willingly admitted that the pay was higher then than now; but it should also be recollected, how very different the service of the army was in the two periods. In the reign of king William their service was only occasional, and no half-pay was established; consequently, it was desirable that their reward should be not only a compensation for actual duty, but, as far as might be practicable, a provision for the future. The gallant general had alluded to the case of civil officers in the Colonies, as being exempted from the operation of the Property-tax; but he could assure him that they enjoyed no such exemption, where they derived their salaries from this country. Those who drew colonial allowances were of course exempt, because Parliament did not think it expedient to extend the operation of the Act to our Colonies. With respect to the relief which officers would derive, in any hardships they might now sustain, by exempting them from the Property-tax, he thought it would be very inadequate; and, besides, the House would surely feel the delicacy of extending that description of relief to a particular class of individuals. The very principle upon which the tax was recommended, in some degree, to public favour, was its universal operation; and to exempt the army and navy would neither be beneficial to the public service, nor conducive, in his apprehension, to their honour. If the proposition were entertained, in respect to them, many other classes, the inferior clergy for instance, whose profits were
 1019]
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  entirely concurred in the opinions of the hon. mover, and thought them not at all weakened by the reply of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was to be remembered that when an officer fell in the service of his country, his commission, perhaps his only provision, was immediately lost to his family. The House had been flattered with hopes that the approaching war would be but of short
 [1020
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  recommended to the hon. general to withdraw his motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  objected to the motion, because he thought his hon. friend and the House were hardly aware of all the consequences to which the principle would go. He apprehended that improvident disclosures were very rare, as he had heard but few complaints. Unless a case of real necessity were made out, he should certainly be averse to any such clause.
 Mr. Baring  said, that if the right hon. gentleman had stated any specific inconvenience likely to result from the motion of his hon. friend, he, for one, should be prepared to oppose it; but, as that had not been done, he hoped the House would reflect before they rejected it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  asked, whether in the correspondence which the hon. gentleman had had with the commis-
 [1024
 Mr. Wynn  maintained, that a single circumstance such as that which had just been mentioned by his hon. friend, ought to be sufficient to induce the House to agree to the motion.
 Mr. Lyttleton  was at a loss to conjecture on what the opposition to the motion was founded. The expediency of it was palpably clear. It would be a most important improvement in the Act. If it were rejected, it would cause a very serious impression upon the public mind, as if that House would countenance such a proceeding.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proceeded to make the motion which he had already described. It was to the following effect—"That it be an instruction to the Committee, that it be empowered to make provision in the said Bill, That the assessments of the year ending the 5th of April, 1815, be the basis of all assessments to be made by the commissioners for the year ending the 5th of April, 1816; and that no new assessments be made;" which, after a short conversation, was carried in the affirmative.
 Mr. Horner  said, that the Bill now before the House was any thing but the bill which the hon. and learned Serjeant had described, when he obtained leave of the House to bring it in. He understood from the hon. and learned gentleman since, however, that two of the most material clauses had been omitted. As it was material that the measure should come before the House in a perfect form, antecedent to their being called upon to deliver their opinion upon it, he thought in the present instance an unfair advantage would be gained by obtaining the consent to the second reading of a Bill, the essence of which was subsequently to be changed. With these feelings, as well as from an insuperable objection to the preamble, he should object to the motion. The measure proposed was very different from what the House expected, and instead of being of a softer, was of a severer nature than the last. He thought the best thing would be to withdraw the Bill, and ask leave to bring in another.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  objected to this course, as likely to give additional trouble to the House.
 Mr. Abercrombie  thought that the vital forms of the House would be evaded, by the manner in which it was attempted to pass this Bill through the second and most material stage. Under these circumstances, he thought the hon. and learned gentleman ought to withdraw the Bill altogether, and bring it in again, in a complete shape, so that the House might be able to consider it in its perfect bearings.
 The Speaker  said, that in all cases where the objects of a bill had not been properly explained to, or understood by the House, the introducer had the option of withdrawing it, in whatever stage it might be, and bringing in another, consonant with his own views, and in an intelligible shape.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  then agreed to withdraw the present Bill, and the order for the second reading was discharged. Leave was then given to bring in a Bill in a perfect form.
 Sir William Curtis  said, he had a petition to present from the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Livery of London, in Common-hall assembled, which might appear, in some respects, of an extraordinary nature. He was bound in duty to his constituents to present it, and it was couched in terms that might probably ensure its reception by the House. It was also his duty to say, that there was scarcely a sentiment contained in it in which he concurred. The meeting was, however, called in the constitutional and proper way. The petition was a kind of omnium, embracing a great variety of matter; one part of it related to the Property-tax. He moved for leave to present the petition.
 The Speaker  observed, that the hon. baronet having stated that the Petition was in part against a tax now pending, it could not, consistently with the forms of the House, be received.
 Sir W. Curtis  said, that he did not know whether it could be said that the Petition was exactly directed against the Property-tax.
 The Speaker  thought it advisable that the hon. baronet should read the part which he conceived might prove objectionable.
 Sir W. Curtis  then read part of the prayer of the Petition, stating, that it was with feelings of indignation the petitioners had perceived his Majesty's ministers had proposed to revive an odious tax, and praying the House to stop the course of a weak, rash, and infatuated Administration in their mad career, and preserve the peace and prosperity of the nation.
 The Speaker  said, that it was now for the House to judge from what they had heard, whether the Petition was for the Property-tax or against it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he thought the House had heard enough to induce them to reject it.
 Mr. Horner  observed, that the rule of the House ought only to be applied practically to the case for which it was intended. Coming from so great and respectable a body—[A laugh on the Ministerial side of the House]—coming, he repeated, from a most numerous and respectable body, the Petition ought not to be rejected on a mere point of form, unless it came strictly and indisputably
 1003]
 Mr. Bathurst  was willing to give the petitioners all the respect they deserved. He did not think that the words employed at all warranted the construction put upon them by the hon. gentleman. The object was not so much to complain of ministers, as of the tax which was mentioned,  eo nomine,
 Sir John Newport  referred to the memorable  dictum
 Mr. Serjeant Best  contended, that the Petition expressly prayed the rejection of the Property-tax Bill—[A cry of 'No, no!']. Whether it did or did not, was a matter of very little consequence, since the instrument could not be received, as it was couched in the most disrespectful terms—the first two lines contained a most gross and infamous libel upon the House and upon the constitution. The individuals who have signed it must have known that it could not be received; and he could not conceive that it was the duty of any member to present a petition designed to
 [1004
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the learned member could not be sure what the House would do with the Petition, till they had come to a vote. The learned member had not yet read the Petition, and yet he had termed it a gross libel. He hoped to find him mistaken. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had become very humorous about the city when they turned against him: at other times they were found very useful both by him and the worthy alderman. The prayer was to stop the career of ministers, which occasioned grievances, and would bring on the Property-tax. Nice and fine distinctions should be avoided respecting the receiving of Petitions. The livery were most unhappy in their representative, who said he was bound to present the Petition, but yet evinced so much reluctance in doing his duty. If he was their representative in Guildhall, he certainly was counsel against them in that House. His pleading against the Petition was even more able and effectual than the learned serjeant's; and surely, had he seen a libel such as the learned serjeant mentioned, he would have pounced upon it at once. The House would not, either in compliment to him, or to ministers, do so violent an act as to reject a petition which the worthy alderman himself said came from a body constitutionally convened.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that the tax was distinctly stated, and then came a prayer for the consideration of divers matters, in order to stop the career of rash ministers. The objection to the Petition did not proceed from any desire to prevent the expression of the petitioners' sentiments, but for the purpose of supporting the rules of the House.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that there were two modes of presenting petitions; one to obtain its reception, and the other to secure its rejection by the House: which the worthy baronet had adopted, the House could easily determine. The Petition complained of a weak, rash, and infatuated Administration, that had resorted to an odious tax, from which they hoped to have been free; but the prayer was not directed against the tax, whatever ingenuity might be displayed to show the contrary. If there were any valid objection, it could not have happened that gentlemen on the other side should take such different grounds. It
 1005]
 Sir W. Curtis  said, certainly.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that there never was a stronger ground of rejection. The Petion desired the consideration of the proposed tax; and it grossly misrepresented the situation and character of the House with the public.
 Mr. Baring  said, the circumstance that the Petition was presented by the worthy alderman, was  primâ facie
 Lord Compton  observed, that when there was a doubt as to the meaning of a petition, the natural course was to bring it up and suffer it to be read. There was another reason why it should be received,
 [1006
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the usual course was to call on the member who presented the petition, to read the prayer of it. In that prayer there was nothing to be objected to. The House, therefore, should not refuse to hear the Petition read, because a member who unwillingly presented it quarrelled with some of its sentiments.
 Sir W. Curtis  observed, that he had entertained doubts as to the admissibility of the Petition, which he had communicated to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who entertained more than doubts respecting it. He had communicated, therefore, his doubts to the House, but he did not wish to prejudice them against the Petition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the Petition was against the ministers and their measures generally, it could not be objected to; but if it objected to certain specific measures, of which the Property-tax was one, it would be inconsistent with the rule of the House to receive it. It would be an assistance to the judgment of the House, if the worthy alderman would state more fully the substance of the whole Petition, or the circumstances which took place when it was agreed to;—as, for instance, whether any mention had been made of the Property-tax at the time.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, he had never witnessed such a debate as the present—the presenter of a petition diligently finding objections to it, and the minister ferreting out reasons in support of him. Instead of astuteness in finding out reasons for rejection, the astuteness would be better employed in discovering causes for receiving a petition. He did not understand a petition against a tax by implication. Probably no two would agree on the exact point of objection. The rule was, not to receive a petition against a tax proposed for the ways and means of the present year; but, then, the prayer must distinctly express that request. Inference and deduction were not fair grounds of rejection. He had seen many petitions more offensive than the present; but the House ought to know its contents. Were he on the opposite bench in such a case, he should be desirous of receiving it.
 Mr. H. Sumner  was in favour of reading it. The tax might be so introduced as to be incidental to the chief object of the prayer. Though he did not concur in the use of the word 'execration,' yet he did not think that sufficient to exclude it. A general courtesy should be observed towards petitions when they were not offensive, or when particular points might be liberally construed. He should, vote against the rejection, unless the Speaker said it might be read as part of the worthy alderman's speech.
 The Speaker  observed, that the member who presented a petition to the House was bound to state the substance of it; but if the House wished to hear the words, the course was, that the clerk at the table should read it. As to the rule against receiving petitions against taxes, it clearly was, that no petition should be received against any tax voted in the committee of Ways and Means for the year. [1008 1009] [1010
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that if any doubt remained on the minds of the House, it must now be completely removed. The petition was directly against the renewal of the Property-tax. The petition went through a variety of matter, stating different grounds of complaint involving the Property-tax, and concluded by praying the House to take those matters into consideration, and to interpose its authority. Although it was desirable to throw the doors wide open to petitions, he thought the present was not entitled to be received.
 Mr. Abercrombie  thought that this petition contained two distinct propositions. The first was a sort of apology for coming to that House after the little attention that had lately been paid to petitions. Upon this point he must say, that he believed
 1011]
 Mr. Serjeant Best  opposed the receiving the petition, on what he conceived to be much higher grounds than those suggested by the hon. baronet. He should put it to the House, whether they would submit to be told by any petitioners, that they were not in the habit of listening to petitions from the people. Every body who was at all in the habit of attending the House, and witnessing its proceedings, must know that this was a most false and infamous misrepresentation. It was well known, that as to the particular point, the Property-tax, the House had in the course of the present session received a vast number of petitions,—but under other circumstances, and when such petitions could be received without violating their established rules and usages. Could it then be said, that the House paid no attention to those petitions, or could it be denied that those petitions had a considerable influence? An hon. gentleman had asked, was it decent for the House to reject the petition of the City of London, on such grounds as had been suggested? He should ask, was it decent in the City of London to talk to that House of the corrupt state of the representation? If such language had come from a small obscure place in the country, he should not by any means feel so strong an objec-
 [1012
 Sir Francis Burdett  saw nothing in the language of this petition that was stronger than what had been used in many petitions which had been received by that House. As to the charges which it contained against the system of representation by which the House was now constituted, he apprehended the rejection of the petition would have rather the effect of impressing those opinions more generally on the minds of the people out of doors.
 Mr. Grenfell  opposed the reception of the petition, as he conceived that the language used in it was untrue, and intended as an insult to that House.
 Mr. Lyttelton  said, that if the petition, was rejected on the grounds on which it was opposed, it would afford a precedent most fatal to the right of petition.
 Mr. Wortley  thought the petition was merely to be considered as a petition against the Administration, and not as particularly directed against the Property-tax.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that he conceived the petition was highly disrespectful. It accused the House of totally neglecting its duties, and contained such sentiments as ought not to be received from any place, and least of all from the City of London. If a petition containing such sentiments was received from the City of London, it would be an example to any other place, that might feel disposed to address the House in unbecoming language.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  said, that the petition contained language which he was sorry to see in a petition from the City of London; but it was the language of those who had been habitually opposing every measure of Government. He was convinced the sentiments were far from being those of the majority of the livery of London. He hoped the House would receive the petition. He thought it beneath their dignity to reject the petition,
 1013]
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  said, that the last speaker had made use of the oddest argument for receiving the petition that could be conceived. Now, he thought that instead of its being received for being the language of a few, and being against the sentiments of the majority, it should therefore be rejected by the House.
 Mr. Preston  said, that as it was stated to be the legal petition of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Liverymen, it should be treated with respect as such. He therefore supported the motion.
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, that he had delivered his opinion, that the petition should not be rejected on account of technicalities; but he would now vote that it be not received on much stronger grounds. The first paragraph contained, he conceived, the most scandalous libel that could be uttered against the House. The insult was the grosser, on account of coming from the City of London. It was not because the City of London was great, that direspectful language towards that House should be received from it. The City of London had petitioned against the Corn Bill, and had prophesied that if the Bill should be passed, corn would immediately be above 80 s.
 Mr. W. Smith  observed, that if what had been stated about the representation was to be considered an insult to the House, he did not know in what manner a petition for parliamentary reform could be drawn, without stating what the petitioners complained of in the present mode of representation. As the objection to the petition seemed at present mainly grounded on the first paragraph, which conveyed imputations against the House; he should read a passage from a petition
 [1014
 Mr. Baring  observed, that the ground on which the petition was objected to had been shifted by its opponents. Hundreds of petitions had been presented against the passing of the Corn Bill, which had not been attended to; and some of those petitions had stated that the opinions of the petitioners of the necessity of a reform in the representation would be confirmed if that Bill passed. The imputation of the liverymen had therefore some foundation, and he did not believe it would have been at all objected to, if it had not been coupled with disrespectful language towards the Administration.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, he would oppose the reception of the petition, on the ground of its being a petition against the Property-tax.
 Mr. Forbes  said, the only thing to be regretted upon this occasion was, that there should have been so much discussion. Had the petition been received quietly, and laid upon the table, he had no doubt but the petitioners would have been extremely disappointed.
 General Harvey  having himself experienced many of the disadvantages which the hon. general who proposed the motion had detailed, could not withhold his complete acquiescence in the motion.
 General Gascoyne  persevered, when the question was put, and negatived without a division.
 General Gascoyne  replied, and said he had no reluctance, if that would satisfy the noble lord (Palmerston), to extend his motion for exemption, and make it general to the whole army.
 General Gascoyne  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the non-extension of the tax to officers of the army and navy, while on foreign service. It was necessary, that that description of persons, after the long contest in which we had been engaged, and which we were now about to
 1015] l. l. s; l. l. l. l.; l. l. [1016 s. s. d. l. l. l. l. l.; l. l.; l., 1017] l. l.
 Lord Proby  thought the situation of officers, he meant subaltern and not general officers, required relief, and was at present discreditable to the country, and prejudicial to the service. It was true that the object of a military life was not money, or the accumulation of a large fortune; but it was necessary that there should be what was sufficient to enable officers to live like gentlemen, and this sufficiency was not yet accorded. The hon. general was, however, certainly wrong in supposing that officers abroad were less advantageously circumstanced than those at home.
 Mr. Grenfell  rose, and observed, that according to the provisions of the Act as it was now framed, there was no clause in it to restrain the Commissioners of the Property-tax from disclosing the information they obtained in the discharge of their duty. He thought this a defect, which, in many instances, might lead to unpleasant occurrences; in some cases, indeed, he knew such occurrences had taken place. He should therefore, move, "That it be an instruction to the committee to introduce a clause imposing the same restraint upon the Commissioners for the Affairs of Taxes as existed with regard to the Commissioners for General Purposes under the Property-tax Act."
 Mr. Grenfell  replied, that he had received no explanation, which, in his view of it, was satisfactory.
 Mr. Grenfell , in reply to the request made to him by his hon. friend, to relate the anecdote to which he had alluded, stated, that a friend of his, travelling in a common stage coach from London to Oxford, was entertained by a fellow passenger with a minute account of the diminution of income, and of the other affairs of a gentleman whose residence they passed. On his arrival at Oxford, his friend inquired who his fellow passenger was, and was informed that he was a commissioner of the Property-tax. He (Mr. Gienfell) had subsequently a long correspondence with him on the subject, and had acquainted him that if ever an opportunity occurred, he would introduce into the House of Commons some measure to check so great an abuse. It was in consequence that he then submitted the clause, and would take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that no arguments had been advanced against the proposition of his hon. friend (Mr. Grenfell), which he was confident could not be attended with any inconvenience, and would certainly produce many beneficial consequences. He could not forbear remarking on the constant recurrence made by gentlemen on the opposite side to the
 1023]
 General Grosvenor  expressed his hearty and entire concurrence in what had fallen from his hon. friend who made the motion.
 Mr Huskisson  contended, that as the intended duration of the Bill was only for one year, a very strong case of actual in-convenience ought to be made out to induce the House to take any step which might have the effect of casting a stigma on so respectable a body of men as the Commissioners of Taxes. He thought it would be very difficult to devise any kind of oath which would exactly answer the purpose of the hon. member.
 Mr. W. Smith , certain as he was that the tax would be renewed the next year, and the year after, thought that Parliament ought not to spare themselves the trouble of modifying it in the best possible way. He had always opposed the tax on the ground of its inquisitorial and oppressive nature; but he was by no means persuaded, that by an extensive pruning, it might not be rendered tolerable.
 Sir Charles Pole  rose to second the motion. He said, that the observations which the gallant officer had made with regard to the army applied in a double ratio to the navy. In the equipment of a ship, the necessaries they were obliged to provide amounted to almost as much as the expenses incurred by any person beginning a new establishment. He had thought that the renewal of the Property-tax was necessary under the present situation of the country, but that certain modifications ougnt to have been adopted. As to the measure now proposed, he did not think it went far enough. In looking at the estimates which had been lately submitted to the House, it must alarm any man to add to the burthen of the people; but he was quite sure that great savings might be made in several departments of the navy, especially with regard to superannuations on the civil service. Government had acted with great liberality in augmenting the half-pay of naval officers; but it went at this moment to make the full pay and half-pay so nearly on a par, that there was only a difference of 3 l. [1018 l.
 Lord Milton  adverted to the difficulty which seamen encountered in procuring their pay, after having been engaged in the service for a number of years. Some regulation ought to be made on this subject.
 Lord Milton , convinced as he was of the numerous deficiencies of the measure, moved as a general proposition, "that it be an instruction to the committee, that they have power to amend the said Act."
 Lord Palmerston  wished to offer a very few words upon what had been urged by the hon. mover, and the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last. He apprehended, in the first place, that it was an entire misconception to suppose that officers were less able to provide for themselves and families on foreign service than at home. The fact was, that on foreign stations they were much more advantageously situated, as, in addition to their ordinary full pay, they were at no expense for quarters, they drew rations from the magazines both for themselves and their servants, and obtained forage for their horses. It had been observed that long arrears were sometimes due, viz. for six or twelve months, but this was only an additional proof that the incomes of officers were much improved abroad, as they had been particularly in the peninsular warfare, or it would have been impossible for them to have given such long credit to Government. With respect to the hardship alluded to by an hon. and learned gentleman, when officers purchased their commissions and were killed in battle, or died on foreign service, he could only say, that though it might be an act of liberality to allow their families to dispose of their commissions, it would be an act of great injustice to the corps. Many cases, however, had occurred, in which, the families of officers being left in great distress, grants were made to them in addition to the usual allowances. He certainly thought, if any distinction was to be made, the officers serving at home were most entitled to it.
 Lord Castlereagh  could not avoid feeling the utmost surprise at what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman. He had conceived that those who sat on the other side of the House had long since considered themselves to be in possession of information sufficient to warrant them in charging his Majesty's Government with an unqualified breach of faith. An hon. gentleman who sat opposite had very recently declared in terms the most decided, that he had at length conclusive grounds for ascribing to ministers a breach of faith, and a gross violation of their duty. It was impossible for him to imagine that those who had so long since criminated the proceedings of Government and of our Allies, in the general arrangements adopted for the settlement of Europe, should not now be prepared to support their accusations. He trusted, therefore, that as he had come down to the House in the discharge of his duty to meet the discussion of charges preferred in his absence, the hon. and learned gentleman, with the usual candour and manliness of
 [26
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, he would not discuss the documents until they were regularly laid upon the table; but he could not help observing upon the most vain hope expressed by the noble lord, that the proceeding of this night would afford any lesson to the side of the House usually opposed to ministers. Nothing that had fallen, or was likely to fall, from the noble lord, could afford any instruction, or give any useful advice to his political antagonists. His principal object in rising was to vindicate himself and his friends from an aspersion cast upon them by the noble lord, who asserted that they had circuitously and clandestinely received information from the agents of foreign governments, of which they had availed themselves, to make accusations against ministers. This was a most serious charge. The noble lord must know that it was so:—but it was utterly false; neither be nor any one of his friends, he was convinced, would have any communication with the agents of any foreign power to the prejudice of this country, and it was a base insinuation on the part of the noble lord to intimate that they would. The noble lord had been extremely un-candid towards his hon. and learned friend who made the present motion, in assuming that the scope of his argument was in favour of the independence of Italy. He had treated the idea as romantic; as that which, if possible, might be wished for, but as that which no man could hope or expect to see accomplished. If Murat had broken his faith with this country, he admitted we were released from the observance of our engagements with him, but the failure on his part had not yet been established.
 Lord Castlereagh  explained as to the misrepresentations with which he had been charged. As to the remarks he had felt it his duty to make upon the incom-
 55]
 Mr. Ponsonby.  The noble lord has asserted, that we received information directly or circuitously from the agents of foreign Powers, which we unworthily applied in this House. If the noble lord persists in that charge, I must deny that we have received any such intelligence. I must assert that there is no truth in the assertion; that the insinuation, as I before said, was base: and that on this side of the House we are incapable of such conduct. I must repel the charge in those words; but if I have mistaken the noble lord, I should be sorry undeservedly to employ such terms.
 Lord Castlereagh.  Does the right hon. gentleman mean to say that the information was not derived from the agents of Murat? I have no difficulty in stating undisguisedly, that I did understand that a direct communication had taken place from Genoa to an hon. member on the other side of the House, and that in consequence of the information procured, steps had been taken in this House by that hon. member.
 Lord Castlereagh  began by stating, that the House would naturally suppose that he must feel anxious to enter into explanations upon the question then before them; and hence he had pressed upon the hon. member to fulfil the notice which he had given, and to open the matter according to the view of it which prevailed in his mind. The hon. member had accepted his challenge, and had certainly argued the question with that fairness, ability, and
 39] [40 sine quâ non 41] [42 43] [44 45] primâ facie primâ facie [46 47] French [48 49] et qu'on peut lui pisser dessus [50 51] [52
 Mr. Ponsonby.  I can only say, upon
 [56
 Lord Castlereagh.  I wish to understand in what way the right hon. gentleman meant to apply the terms 'false and base'
 Lord Castlereagh.  I am not prepared, I confess, to make such an admission. I think the information was not obtained constitutionally, or properly.
 Mr. Ponsonby.  I am sure, Mr. Speaker,
 57]
 Lord Castlereagh.  I objected on the general principle to the employment of information that must directly or indirectly have come from such sources as those to which I alluded. The right hon. gentleman ought to be the last person to complain of unparliamentary language.
 Lord Castlereagh.  I have no difficulty in admitting that I intended no personal charge. I did feel that a motion made upon intelligence procured through indirect channels was not such as Parliament could wisely adopt.
 Lord Castlereagh.  I am not aware that I employed any strong language that could reasonably be made the subject of complaint. I apprehend that a motion made on information of such a description would not deserve the attention of Parliament.
 Mr. Ponsonby.  I confess that I did feel for my hon. friend, when the charge was made, very strongly. I felt for myself,
 [58
 Lord William Bentinck  dispatched the chief of his staff, Count Catinelli, to marshal Bellegarde, in order to concert with him the operations of the two armies. The marshal wished that the British troops should act against the Genoese territories, whilst lord William Bentinck wished to take possession of Tuscany, and produced a Convention agreed to by Count Neipperg, by which he was to occupy that country. This Convention was unknown to the King; it was contrary to the 4th article of the armistice
 79] [80
 The Speaker.  I am quite persuaded that the House cannot suffer the debate to terminate with such words unexplained. Whatever might be the heat of debate, or the strength of the impression they made, they are words that, I am sure, the right hon. gentleman will disclaim having used in a personal and offensive sense. They are certainly words not to be employed without an explanation, that they were not intended to give personal offence. The right hon. gentleman owes it to the House to give some explanation.
 Mr. Protheroe  having remarked that the hon. member for Bedford had cast his eye rather in a sneering manner towards him, on hearing some gentlemen on his part of the House cheer the noble lord, said he should take that opportunity of expressing aloud the satisfactory impression which that noble lord's defence had made upon him.
 Lord Stanley  adverted to the expense Government would be put to in collecting officers for courts-martial, some of whom were fifty miles distant from head-quarters.
 Mr.
 25]  wished to address a few words to the noble lord opposite before he proceeded to his motion upon this subject. He had received an intimation that it was not the intention of ministers to oppose the production of the greater and most important part of the papers that would be required. If such were the fact, he submitted that it would be much more consistent with the practice and constitution of Parliament for the documents to be furnished by a message from the throne. It seemed to be at least the most respectful mode of proceeding, on the commencement of a new war with a Power with whom we had before been on terms of amity. But at any rate, if it was the intention of the noble lord to produce all the papers which he (Mr. Horner) thought were necessary, it would be better that the House should be saved the trouble of an unnecessary discussion on the motion for granting them. What he understood the noble lord would grant were, all the communications which had passed between his Majesty's government and the present government of Naples. More than that he could not himself call on the noble lord to produce. If, therefore, the noble lord was prepared to grant all which he was prepared to ask, it would be unnecessary for him to preface his motion with such a detailed statement as would otherwise have been necessary.
 Mr. Horner  believed that, in his own parliamentary experience, such a reception had never been given to any suggestion coming from any quarter of the House, as that which the noble lord had given to the observation he had thought it his duty to submit. The noble lord might enjoy his short lived triumph; he was no more inclined than that noble lord to shrink from the task of redeeming any pledge which he had once given to the House, although, if the noble lord had done justice to his proposal, he would have admitted the propriety of deferring an inquiry till the papers which he had intended to move for, as preliminary to that purpose, were before the House. The noble lord must have known that he had it in his power to embarrass ministers in that House by referring to papers which had been already laid before the other House of Parliament. (Cries of Order, order!) He wished, however, to take no such advantage; but be did not think the noble lord had treated the House very respectfully in leaving them to discover, by an ambiguous allusion of his own, that we were now engaged in a war, instead of making that communication in the ordinary form by a message from the Crown. He desired, also, to repel, with the indignation that was due to such an insinuation, the idea that he was disposed to shrink from the prosecution of any inquiry he had proposed to institute. He trusted he was as incapable of such conduct on the one hand, as on the other of abstaining from a full confession of his error, if there was any error into which he had been betrayed. The noble lord had been misinformed by his right honourable friends, however, if he understood that any substantive charges had been brought against him in his absence. He, for one, had certainly preferred no such accusation. Questions had certainly been asked, whether the facts were as they were stated to be, and whether published documents, purporting to be the genuine engagements of different powers, were fabricated or authentic instruments? Upon all these points the noble lord's right hon. colleagues and partners in responsibility had left them in the deepest ignorance,—whether from a disposition to withhold information, or because the noble lord had left them in ignorance not less profound, it was not for him to determine. The whole of their
 27] [28 29] [30 31] [32 33] primâ facie [34 35] [36 pari passu 37] [38
 Mr. Horner , in reply, contended, that he had a right to seek to obtain information in a constitutional manner. The noble lord's speech had not altered the impression on his mind; though he approved of his having reduced the question to one of good faith. The noble lord had directed the attention of the House to the reports of military commanders who had described Murat's conduct; but unless they made out that it had been such in the campaign as could not be fairly attributed to the imperfection of all human efforts, they had not proved what was necessary to support their case. The noble lord had chiefly relied on a collection of letters, which were certainly curious, as they unfolded the private character and dispositions of men of whom one had heard so much; but they did not touch the question. They were all prior to the 4th of March, when the ratification of the Treaty had been signed on the part of Austria, and a month before we had acceded to that Treaty. Murat's conduct before he had entered into any final engagement with the Allies, could be no
 59]
 Mr. Horner  begged to be allowed to say a few words, as the individual to whom the remark of the noble lord was intended to apply. He did not feel called upon to state what were his sources of information, and the House would not suppose that any guilt was connected with them until it were satisfactorily proved. On such a charge, however, it was not unnatural that his right hon. friend should have felt warmly, knowing that the noble lord had no foundation for the imputation. The noble lord ought to make allowances for the heat of debate, and ought to take this opportunity of disclaiming any thing of a personal nature.
 Mr. Tierney  was quite willing to be examined as to any suspicious correspondence he was concerned in. No body had fewer correspondents. It was impossible for the noble lord to mean that any improper or treasonable intercourse had been carried on with the enemy. Such a charge would be ridiculous.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that this disagreeable discussion might in a moment be terminated, if the noble lord would admit that he did not mean to insinuate that improper practices had existed on the subject.
 Mr. Tierney  was fully persuaded that his right hon. friend would be satisfied when the accusation was put in that way. He was sure that the natural good-humour, of which the noble lord possessed so large a share, would prevail to restore amity. The noble lord had at first undoubtedly used a very strong expression.
 Mr. Addington  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to the Militia. He observed that the alterations he proposed were merely matters of form, and were not at all, connected with the present state of public affairs. He should be ready to give any explanation either now or upon a future day after the Bill was brought in.
 Mr. Addington  said, that the measure was entirely justifiable by circumstances.
 Mr. Addington  had no objection to state the substance of the various clauses. The first was to settle a doubt entertained by the law officers of the Crown, whether, under the words of the existing Act, officers who had volunteered into the line could retain their half-pay on the disbanding of their regiments. The second referred to the half-pay of captains, who had also volunteered; and the third was to enable officers who had entered the regular service to receive their half-pay on returning to the militia. A fourth clause regarded courts-martial, empowering commanding officers to summon officers more than ten miles distant, and to allow them travelling expenses. A fifth was to empower Government to call out the Local Militia for a period less than a month; and a sixth to indemnify the counties for retaining their militias embodied beyond the termination of the war.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that he was happy to assure the House that such a charge was perfectly ridiculous. Certain documents had appeared in the public prints, and some animadversions were made upon them in Parliament. Two or three days afterwards he had received a letter purporting to come from Genoa, which he had never answered otherwise than by acknowledging the receipt of it to the individual, who said he had been charged to deliver it four or five weeks earlier, but had not met with him (Mr. Whitbread) at home. That was the only communication he had received, and he felt himself perfectly at liberty to make use of it, as he had not resorted to any improper source of information. The fact of the letter being sent, he had stated to the noble lord (Castlereagh) in the lobby, who then certainly seemed to possess more urbanity than at present, for he had warned him not to lend his ear to such stories, and the reply was, "What if they come in letters from abroad, how can I avoid it?" He scarcely felt it necessary to assure the House, that he had never sought for or knowingly obtained any information from improper sources.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he did not mean to eater into the case at length that night,
 53] [54
 Mr. Whitbread  did not understand what the noble lord meant by the terms, 'constitutionally and properly.' He was satisfied that the noble lord was too manly to advance any thing against his opponents which he was not prepared to justify, and therefore asked if he had any serious charge to bring against them, of their having acted in a manner inconsistent with their duties as citizens and members of parliament. If he meant to make no such charge, his right hon. friend would be satisfied that there was no foundation for what had fallen from him; that the noble lord could hot have meant what he had understood him to say.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  congratulated the House on the good humour into which it had subsided. He thought that the gentlemen opposite had profited by the lesson which they had received. Their tone was greatly changed, and they could no longer sing out their usual charge against his Majesty's ministers, that through their fault a valuable ally had been lost. He praised the fairness with which the question had been brought forward, and thought it had been proved that it was impossible to follow any other line of conduct than that which ministers had adopted.
 Lord Milton  observed, that the last clause was a sort of admission on the part of Government that they were blameable in retaining the militia embodied.
 Lord Milton  begged to know what was the nature of the amendments.
 Lord Nugent  rose, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the oppression and injustice shown, and to the artifices employed by the Post-office against captain Perring of the Lady Mary Pelham. They had raised, he said, this case to a degree of importance that would not otherwise belong to it. The papers laid upon the table confirmed the opinion he had formerly entertained, and showed that what at first seemed neglect, was in truth system. His lordship then went into a statement of the facts of the case already before the public, regarding the sailing of the Pelham and Montagu packets in company— their being attacked by an American privateer, the Montagu at first sustaining the brunt of the action; the striking of the colours by the Montagu, the relief afforded by the Pelham, and the subsequent rewards given to captain Watkins of the Montagu, and the crew, for their gallantry. A portion of these rewards his
 155]
 Mr. Rose  thought there was no cause for parliamentary interference in the case
 [156
 Lord Nugent,  in his reply, described the motives by which he was actuated upon this subject, namely, a desire to place on fair grounds the case of an officer who had been impeached, and in his judgment oppressed, by an office against whose decision there was no appeal but in that House itself. Indeed, he could not conceive where an officer officially slandered as captain Perring had been, could look for redress, if he could not find it in that House.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  supported the motion.
 Mr. Preston  bore testimony to the high merits of the individual who now came before the House as a complainant, observing, that captain Perring's object was not to obtain any reward, but to vindicate his character, and secure remuneration for his crew. He said, it appeared by the evidence, and might be proved if the Committee was granted, that the colours of the Montagu were struck and not shot away and that the conduct of the commander in firing on the American after that event was unwarrantable. The mail also, it would be proved, had been thrown overboard by the gunner of the Montagu, in the disorder in which that ship was after her colours were struck, and not by the orders of captain Watkins. It would also appear that the log-book of the Montagu had been falsified, as it was there stated that the action lasted more than an hour, which lasted only ten minutes. The Montagu had, in fact, been re-captured by the Pelham. He should therefore vote for the Committee, as the only means of doing justice to captain Perring.
 Mr. R. Gordon  opposed the motion, as captain Perring might, if he chose, have been tried before the regular tribunal.
 Mr. Lushington  felt it his duty to oppose the motion of the noble lord. He did not charge the captain of the Pelham with cowardice, but with mismanagement; the consequence of which was, that the Montagu was much distressed and nearly taken. He then went into a statement of the facts, by which it appeared that captain Watkins had behaved with the utmost gallantry, and had been promoted to the command of the Montagu, the captain having been killed in the action. He detailed to the House the evidence taken before two Boards of Inquiry upon the subject, which, he contended, showed that captain Watkins was highly deserving of the rewards he had received.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Property-tax Bill, The question having been put from the chair,
 Mr. Dickenson  rose, and said he did not think he should be performing his duty to the country, if he did not declare his hostility to this Bill. He thought it was particularly oppressive to the agriculturist, upon whose prosperity the main interests of the state depended. He lamented to state, that within the last six months this class of society had experienced the greatest hardships, and these were not alone confined to one particular county, but were felt universally throughout the country. In support of his assertion, he would give an instance which came within his own knowledge. Having heard that the farmers of the county of Somerset had been material sufferers from the distresses of the times, he had the curiosity to write to the gaoler of the county to ascertain the proportion of debtors that had come under his notice within the last six months. The result of this inquiry was as follows: on the 23d of last November, there were twenty-three debtors in prison: on December the 23d, there were thirty: on January the 23d, forty-five: on February the 23d, forty-seven: on March the 23d, forty-three; and on the 23d of the last month, fifty-two—and of that number, the proportion of farmers was one-fourth. Under such circumstances, he thought the burthen which this tax was about again to throw on this useful class of the community was highly reprehensible; and the more so from the mode of assessing their property, which was taken at three-fourths of their rental; This plan of assessment he thought peculiarly objectionable, inasmuch as no allowance whatever was made for the probable loss of the farmer in the pursuit of his business. The profits of the farmer, he contended, were as easily ascertained as those of a merchant or tradesman, and he saw no reason why he should not have similar advantages with those individuals. Unfortunately, however, he had no means of escaping the tax, whatever might be the extent of his loss, or however disproportionate his profits might be to the scale upon which his assessment was taken. These observations struck him
 161]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in point of form the amendment proposed by the hon. gentleman could not then be received: he was not at all desirous of taking shelter, however, under that circumstance, conceiving, as he did, that the proposition was one which admitted of the best possible answer. If it were not so, the House could easily find a remedy for the evil complained of by a separate bill. Although he was ready to admit that the agriculture of the country had for some time past been in a state of depression, yet he by no means thought the remedy proposed by the hon. gentleman was one likely to produce any very beneficial effect. If ever there was a time in which the House could justly be accused of not paying due attention to the interests of the agriculturist, he thought it was not in the present session. When the Property-tax was first introduced, great difficulties were encountered in suggesting a mode of ascertaining the profit of the farmer. At first it was proposed to assess that class of individuals in the same manner with other persons liable to the tax; but when it was considered, that upwards of a million of returns were made annually, it was at once concluded that it would be impossible for the commissioners to give that sort of attention to those returns, which, to render the tax at all productive, would be necessary. It was at length, therefore, resolved, as the most equitable mode of proceeding, to take the assessments upon that general average of profit as compared with the rent, which experience had justified. This, he imagined, would still be found the best as well as the fairest plan. It was for the House to decide, however, whether the amendment of the hon. gentleman was now admissible. It appeared to him, that, in point of form, no amendment could now be introduced, as the committee on the Bill had only been instructed to revive and continue it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered,
 [164
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion, that it was not because the time of receiving petitions had passed, that the different towns had not met for the consideration of this measure. It was still competent for them to meet, and instruct their representatives how to act; but the real fact was, that the same honourable motive which induced the country to submit to it on a late occcasion, now fully subsisted to reconcile them to its revival. He was not so sanguine as an hon. alderman in the idea, that the tax could be made "a comfortable thing" to the people; at the same time he regretted, in justice to their feelings, that the noble lord's (Milton) proposition, on a former night, to empower the committee to amend the Act, if they thought proper, had not met the concurrence of the House. If the Act required modification, its existence being limited to one year ought not to prevent the amendment from taking place. As the Bill had gone on so far as the third reading, and as no alternative remained, but either to adopt it as it stood, or reject it altogether, he felt it his duty to support the tax, believing it the only one likely to be effective under the present crisis of public affairs.
 Mr. Baring  rose to object to the Bill in its present state, particularly as it was to have an immediate operation in the different quarters of the world. He was ready to concur in any measure which tended to crush this odious traffick. Let the measure of punishment be capital, if they pleased, although he saw no reason to think the last Act had proved inoperative; but let it not at once confound the innocent with the guilty. The clause to which he particularly objected, was that which rendered it penal, and punished as felons, those who lent any money upon mortgage, bond, or loan, in any of the islands which still trafficked in slaves. This unqualified sweep would at once extinguish the trade which existed between this country and the Spanish settlements; for it was impossible to carry on this trade without that species of credit, which would be made criminal by this Act.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he could not concur with his right hon. friend (sir J. Newport) in opposing the third reading of this Bill; because, by doing so, he should be withdrawing that credit from the Executive Government which he had already confided in them. When last he was in the House, his right hon. friend, as well as the House in general, had concurred in voting an Address to the Prince Regent, declaring their conviction of the necessity of augmenting our forces by sea and land, and of a cordial co-operation with our Allies. Was if the pleasure of the House that this
 [166 167]
 Mr. Baring  suggested, that with reference to the time of the Bill's operation, "from and after the 1st of August," would be a desirable introduction.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that the 1st of August would not be a sufficient time for our subjects in the East Indies.
 Mr. Douglas  thought an arrangement might be made which would unite the wishes of all parties.
 Mr. Baring  regretted that any thing which fell from him in the committee, could be so misconstrued as to imply his toleration of so odious a crime. It was a little too hard that gentlemen who merely wished to amend the form of a measure, should be stigmatised with a charge so seriously affecting their character, as that of being friendly to this detestable traffick. They only wanted that the clause should be filled up consistently with justice, and that an Act passed in England on the 5th of May, should not commence its operation in India, on the day after, it had been argued as if it were a mere question of a pecuniary nature, when, in fact, it was the application of a crime of felony, towards persons who had no knowledge of the consequences they were incurring, by a disposal of money in the fair course of trade with those islands, but who were thereby exposed to the in-
 [170
 Mr. Douglas  thought the case of offenders under the present Act, was different from that of persons who had notoriously violated the law.
 Mr. Baring  objected strongly to the extent of this provision, because it would serve to put an end to all traffick on our part with the places alluded to, for without credit trade could not go on. There were, it was notorious, several British and other merchants in those places, who were engaged in many commercial transactions unconnected with the Slave-trade; and would it be just to prohibit British subjects from making any advance to, or receiving any security from such places? He was aware of the motives which gave birth to this clause. An apprehension prevailed among British planters, and probably in the mind of the hon. mover, that British merchants were in the same habit of making loans to the planters of
 171]
 Mr. Wynn  proposed the addition of the words "or other dominions or territories," in order to render the clause sufficiently comprehensive.
 Mr. Baring  thought the clause unnecessarily extensive, even with a view to the hon. mover's object, and, declaring that he should have no objection to the measure, if duly limited, proposed the insertion of these words, "for the purpose of carrying on the Slave-trade:" To this trade, he was as averse as any gentleman in that House; but he felt it just and expedient to protect other commercial dealings from the visitation of this law.
 Mr. Forbes  disavowed having any interest in countenancing the Slave-trade, but thought it advisable that his friends in the Cape of Good Hope and the East Indies should be aware of the alteration proposed, for the purpose of guarding themselves against its consequences.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  thought the adoption of the amendment would render the Bill a solemn mockery, and make it wholly nugatory. He said that Spain and Portugal were more than usually desirous to stock their colonies with slaves, which they never could accomplish without the assistance of British capital. In support of this opinion, the learned Serjeant, mentioned the sentiments of the Spanish ambassador. In allusion to Cuba particularly, British capital was advanced to proprietors in that island, upon mortgages of land and other property; and by means of that, Cuba was rapidly advancing in agricultural improvement, and in the increase of its slaves. If the committee did not pass the Bill as it originally stood, they would hold out a premium to other nations, to the detriment of our own colonies. But, independent of all commercial considerations, the Bill ought to receive their assent, as it would be a complete answer to all the calumnies thrown out by other countries, on the motives which influenced England in desiring the general abolition of the Slave Trade, and who said that it was a measure rather of policy than of humanity. He declared, that sooner than admit the amendment, he would reject the Bill altogether.
 Mr. Marryat  thought that the other clauses of the Bill were effectual and valid provisions, and would have a beneficial operation, even though the particular one under discussion, to which he had a decided objection, were thrown out. If that clause were agreed to, it would interdict all our trade with the Brazils, the Caraccas, and Buenos Ayres; and when it was remembered, according to documents before the House, that the amount of that trade was ten millions annually, would it be said it was not an object worth retaining? He was at a loss to conceive for what purpose it was introduced. It could not be for the sake of abolishing the Slave-trade, because it related to a trade which was perfectly innocent and legitimate.
 Mr. Douglas  contended, that while the Spanish trade was supported by British capital, it was England who carried on the Slave-trade; and said that it was the opinon of sir Henry Wellesley, that the Spanish trade was carried on solely by British capital. He thought the House ought to consider whether the clause was necessary, and if necessary, it ought to be adopted. For his part, he conceived it his duty to connect it with the original abolition.
 Mr. Baring  lamented that the gentlemen who had opposed the amendment had such little practical knowledge of trade, for he was convinced that their objections arose from misconception. He disclaimed every wish of increasing the Stave-trade, and believed, most conscientiously, that not an additional slave would be created by it. He could not think any commercial advantages a sufficient justification for the revival of that traffick. He said, that the Slave-trade was regarded with the utmost abhorrence, by every English merchant, and nothing could induce them to afford it the least support; but he was convinced, that if the clause in the Bill were known generally, every commercial body in England would send petitions against its enactment.
 Mr. Marryat  said, that it was often necessary, in payment for goods sent out, to take such security as could be got. No British merchant would voluntarily lend money on the security of Spanish plantations, as the legal rate of interest there would not reimburse them. To prevent British merchants, however, from getting any security for the payment of goods sent out there, would be highly injurious to the general interests of British trade.
 Mr. Forbes  stated his reasons for supporting the amendment; he conceived that the original clause was attended with many disadvantages, without attaining the great object it professed to have in view. He was aware that no British merchant would advance capital to support the Slave-trade, but there was nothing to prevent the application of it indirectly to that purpose.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  said, that a persevering legislature would bear down every attempt to evade their enactments. He thought that if they now showed themselves determined to apply a remedy, to the evil pointed out to them, there was no danger of their not being able to prevent an evasion of their laws.
 Mr. Marryat  said, that if the Bill were to pass without this amendment, it would destroy the foundation of all our commerce with the Spanish and Portuguese colonies. The great advantage possessed by Great Britain in trading with these colonies consisted in the power of making advances.
 Mr. Baring  contended, that the exemption of growing crops, while it would be a great convenience to the commerce of the country, would not at all interfere with the object of the hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  opposed, the amendment.
 Lord Castlereagh  moved, That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be pleased to give directions, that there be laid before the House a paper, intituled "Official Communication made to the Russian Ambassador at London on the 19th of January 1805, explanatory of the views which his Majesty and the Emperor of Russia formed for the deliverance and security of Europe." The motion was agreed to, the said Paper was laid on the table of the House, and is as follows:
 OFFICIAL COMMUNICATION  made to the Russian Ambassador at London, on the 19th January, 1805, explanatory
 [178 
 1. To rescue from the dominion of France those countries which it has subjugated since the beginning of the Revolution, and to reduce France within its former limits, as they stood before that time. 2. To make such an arrangement with respect to the territories recovered from France, as may provide for their security and happiness, and may at the same time constitute a more effectual barrier in future against encroachments on the part of France. 3. To form, at the restoration of peace, a general agreement and guarantee for the mutual protection and security of different Powers, and for re-establishing a general system of public law in Europe. 179] completely [180 181] [182
 The Speaker  said, that at that moment
 163]
 Alderman C. Smith  did not consider that the farmers had more reason to complain of the operation of the tax than any other class of individuals. With respect to the principle of the tax itself, he considered, under existing circumstances, and the necessity of empowering his Majesty's ministers to uphold the interests and general welfare of the country, that it was unobjectionable.
 Mr. Horner  regarded the tax as not more injurious to the commercial than to all the other great interests in which the safety and stability of the state were involved. He feared that the description given by his hon. friend of the county in which he resided was but too generally applicable, and certainly understood that in Scotland the tenantry were in a declining state. No one who looked upon the prosperous state of agriculture as the source and fountain-head of our national resources, could contemplate this state of things without alarm for the consequences. The opinions of the House had not long since been divided upon a measure intended for the relief of the agricultural interest, but there was then no dispute as to the fact of the distress which existed. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, however, was now about to establish, without any modification, an imposition, which in their flourishing condition was found grievous and oppressive; and which, therefore, in their present circumstances of embarrassment, must prove odious and intolerable. It was a singular time for selecting rent as the ground of assessment to a tax on income, when the difficulty or inability of the farmer to pay his rents at present was notorious and undisputed. If rent was in some years a fair criterion of farming profits, it could not be fair in a year during which there were no profits. If farmers could produce their accounts in the same regular form in which the accounts of commercial men were preserved, he could not imagine what objections existed against administering to the former the same relief, and applying the same regulations as
 [162
 Mr. Calcraft  concurred with the last speaker, that the measure was liable to many objections, not only as it affected commercial and farming capitalists, but as it affected professional men, and the profits of skill and industry. He should give it his support at present, because he Believed no substitute could be found for it, and because he did not believe it could be so modified this year as to meet the very different wishes of the different classes of the community.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  opposed the motion, and observed that no circumstances would justify the imposition of a tax which did not attach solely on property or expenditure, but fell with equal severity on the annuitant and on the freeholder, on the professional man and the man of property.
 Mr. Lockhart  considered the Bill necessary to strengthen the hands of Government with the view of preventing an unnecessary effusion of blood. He thought, however, that some method should be adopted to relieve the agriculturist from the oppressive manner in which the Bill at present bore on his interests.
 Mr. Barham  suggested the propriety of allowing the Bill to go through its present stage; he would then be ready to adopt any suggestion which his hon. friend might deem expedient.
 Mr. Barham  replied, that the reason why he wished it to stand from the present period was, that there were persons now in London endeavouring to procure money for the Slave traffick, who would thereby be deterred from following up their speculation.
 Mr. Barham  complained that gentlemen would not assist him in framing such amendments as would attain the object of
 [176
 Mr. Barham  opposed this amendment. He first corrected a mistake of his hon. friend, relative to the mode of trying offenders. The tribunal which had been stated, could only exist where the parties Were tried on the high seas. If the amendment were adopted, the whole Bill would be rendered nugatory. It would be then a declaratory, not a binding enactment. With reference to the trade which the hon. member supposed would be interrupted by this Bill, unless it had lately become greatly altered indeed, so far from protecting it, its discouragement would, in a political sense, be highly salutary. The House would not, he trusted, after their efforts for twenty years, enter into
 [172 l. l. l. 173]
 Mr. Barham  thought the conduct of the gentlemen who opposed the clause was most extraordinary. He had agreed to leave out ships, buildings, and other matters which they considered objectionable, but this would not satisfy them; they now demanded that growing crops should be exempted from the operation of the Bill; to which he could not consent.
 Mr. Finlay  conceived, if the security of the growing crop were not excepted, the effect would be to curtail very important branches of commerce.
 Mr. Finlay  thought it advisable that persons who had pecuniary concerns with the colonies, should know how they might be affected by this Act.
 Mr. Grenfell  explained, that he meant the remarks he had made on commissioners, on a former occasion, to apply only to those who belonged to the Board of Taxes in Somerset-place.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  agreed to the measure in its present state, only on the principle of its enactment for a limited time, and that if necessity should demand its continuance, a full opportunity would be afforded of discussing what improvements, it was capable of receiving. He had always thought the principle of assessment applied to the profits of cultivation most preposterous: it, in fact, resolved itself into this, that if the tenant did not pay his proportion, the landlord must pay it for him. Now, if it was seriously meant that the proprietors of land ought to pay 15 or 20 instead of 10 l. s. d. l.
 Mr. D. Giddy  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether any abatement would be made to landlords and tenants in the assessment under this Bill, for reductions made in their rents during the present period of distress?
 Mr. D. Giddy  contended for the safe principle of promulgating a law, before it was called into active operation.
 Mr. W. Smith  agreed with his right hon. friend (sir J. Newport), that there was no necessity for granting this concession—it would be quite different if they were about to punish a new species of offence. They might as well expect, that, if an increase of punishment was about to be attached upon pick-pockets, those worthy persons should have the privilege of their ingenuity with impunity, until they could be courteously informed of the additional penalty which they would incur. If the Act was already forbidden, that was notification enough. Suppose, for instance, the present penalty for being connected with the Slave Trade, was 50 l. l.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the powders granted under the Property tax were such as had never been found tolerable at any former period. They had been granted with a tax at the time of King William, but the tax was soon dropped. The greatest recommendation to the Bill was that it would continue but for a year.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought that the object would be as much defeated by allowing those securities to be taken for goods sold, as if it was for money lent. It would require no great ingenuity or contrivance to lend money to promote the Slave-trade, under the appearance of sending goods to the Spanish collates, which were to be secured by mortgage.
 Mr. W. Smith  applauded the manly feeling which pervaded all who had already spoken upon this subject, and fully disavowed having meant to cast any improper reflection on any of those with whom he differed, particularly his hon. friend (Mr. Baring).
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  wished to ask the right hon. baronet, whether he would prefer the plan of resorting to the funding system, to that of raising the supplies within the year; and whether he thought it was possible to raise the supplies within the year by any other principle of taxation? With respect to the facilities which the tax furnished to the Executive Government for entering upon and carrying on wars, he had often heard the same argument formerly applied to the funding system; and the character of the Income-tax originally was, that it would serve to teach the country what were the real consequences and cost of war. As to the observation of the right hon. baronet, that there were no circumstances which could justify the present measure, he was considerably surprised at it, as he understood him to have concurred in it, in the year 1806. The right hon. baronet had voted for the Address, promising to enable Government to carry on war, if it should be necessary; and yet he now opposed the only means by which war could be effectually maintained.
 Mr. Wilberforce  supported the clause. As to what had been said of the Spanish laws being an obstruction to British merchants lending on such security, it must be recollected, that the Spaniards could alter their laws when it suited their interests. They had very lately, in the case of the Slave-trade, altered their laws, so as to allow slaves to be imported in foreign ships.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he really could not comprehend the proposition that British capital being vested in the transactions of foreign planters in islands where the Slave-trade was still carried on, did not tend to encourage and promote that trade. Suppose those planters, by the use and application of that capital, were enabled to increase their plantations
 [174
 Sir J. Mackintosh  was of the same opinion.
 Sir James Mackintosh  moved an amendment to the clause, providing that persons offending against the Act should be treated as felons, which went to enact that they should be punished by fine and imprisonment; the fine in all cases to be three times the amount of the sum lent; a moiety of it to go to the King, and the other moiety to the informer, provided the information should be given within five years after the commission of the offence.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, the whole object of the clause would be defeated, if it did not apply to growing crops. He hoped the amendment would be negatived.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  observed, that his objections to the measure were insuperable, and he should therefore take the sense of the House upon it. He looked at it in no other light than as a war tax; and believing the war to be unnecessary, he would not put into the hands of ministers the facilities and the temptation for carrying it on. If the Executive had less means, they would have less disposition for again plunging the country into hostilities; and he, for one, would rather pay towards the limited expense of maintaining an armed truce than contribute to the wasteful expenditure of an impolitic and unnecessary war: he, for one, would rather suffer the "ills we have, than fly to others which we know not of;" and with these impressions, should move that the Bill be read a third that day six months.
 Sir S. Romilly  argued against the amendment, which, he said was a solemn mockery, and tended to destroy the prin
 175]
 Sir J. Newport  supported, the clause. This country, he said, had already made great and meritorious sacrifices for the destruction of the trade. In order to convince the other nations of Europe that we were thoroughly sincere, he thought we should not object to this further sacrifice.
 Sir J. Newport  could see no necessity for this notice, as the Legislature was not introducing a new punishment for a new offence, but augmenting a penalty already enacted for an old one.
 Sir John Newport  explained, that he bad not said no circumstances, bat that scarcely any circumstances could justify such a tax as that now proposed. He begged also to state, that his vote an a former night was given under a delusion.
 Sir John Newport  said, he could not conceive how many of those gentlemen, who at its first introduction had opposed the Bill, could now reconcile themselves to their support of it. It bad been said by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as a reason for not making any modifications, or giving any opportunity for appeal against the assessments, that if complaints were listened to, a million would be poured in. Was the House, therefore, to pass a measure which was so widely oppressive, and was it to be stated in support of legislative injustice, that it was not limited in its extent? His own objection to the tax was to the principles—that it was unequal and oppressive in its operation—that it granted power to certain persons, which, in a free country, should never be granted, but he did not see how those who had grounded their support to it, on the idea that they would be able to obtain modifications, could persist in their support
 165]
 Mr. Rose  stated, that since 1800, when the trustees, of whom he was one, were appointed, only two desirable estates had offered themselves to their attention before the estate of Branches and that of Mr. Dawkins, viz. one in Suffolk, in the sale of which they were outbid, and another in Hampshire, on which too high a price had been set, although all possible inquiries had been made. The estate which the trustees were in treaty for with Mr. Kemp, was in a bad country, and accessible only by roads which in winter were impassable; it was for that reason that the trustees had thought fit to prefer the estate in Wiltshire, which was in all respects much more desirable. It was plain, also, that the trustees were under
 [188 l.
 Mr. Western  saw no good grounds for the additional grant. He thought there could be a very good estate purchased for 90,000 l.
 Mr. Rose  observed that Mr. Kemp pertinaciously insisted upon his own terms; namely, that 65,000 l. l.
 Mr. Rose  replied, that there was nothing to prevent Mr. Kemp from applying to the Court of Chancery, if he should consider himself to have been injured. With respect to Standlynch, no other property had offered equally eligible, and, on that account, the commissioners had conceived themselves bound to accept of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it had been difficult to find an estate applicable to the purposes of the act parliament. The Act required that the estate should be freehold, and free from incumbrances. It was therefore essential to the spirit of the Act, that the estate should be settled unincumbered in the Nelson family.
 General Walpole  said, that every man must think it an advantageous purchase.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought
 191]
 Mr. Byng  could not see why a difference should be made between the high bailiff of Westminster, and any other returning officer in the kingdom. He did not know where this principle of compensation was to stop.
 Mr. Gordon  objected to the motion, on the ground that the public ought not to be called on to pay such a sum of money, without a strong case being made out of the necessity of building such a post-office at all. On that head there had been no question whatever asked by the last committee, but they had merely referred to the report of the former committee; and even in that there was, in his opinion, no case made out which would justify the House in giving countenance to the Bill. The Post-office had been carried on for many years in the present situation in which it stood, with every advantage to the public. It was true, Mr. Freeling when before the committee had stated, that they had wanted a new Post-office for a long lime, but they could not prevail with the city of London to agree to it before. He could not, therefore, but be a little surprised, that the City should all at once come forward and join their aid to the Government in saddling the public with such an enormous expense, at the moment when the burthens under which they laboured were so great. He objected also to the reason assigned by the City for now agreeing to this measure, because great part of the money was to be taken from the Orphans' Fund. He denied that the City had a right to apply that fund to this particular purpose, and said the consequence would be a continuance of the tax on coals and wines imported into the port of London for three years longer than it ought to continue, which would be laying an additional burthen on the inhabitants of the city of Westminster, and the parts adjacent to London, for the benefit and advantage of the more distant parts of the empire. He sifted the evidence of Mr. Hasker and other witnesses who had been examined, and observed that they were all in some degree belonging to the Post-office; and when one part of their evidence was compared with another, it appeared to him to be little better than a delusion. He adverted to that part of the report which stated that the new building should be devoid of ornament, to which he objected as much as he did to the adoption of the measure at all. If we were to have a new building on which 244,000 l. 193]
 Mr. Western  was against the Bill. He did not see any thing in the Report which could warrant the adoption of such a measure, while the burthens on the people were so oppressive. Admitting that it would be an improvement, it was still incumbent to show an urgent necessity for it. The Orphans Fund, from which part
 [194
 Mr. Bennet  said, that when the city of London had come to Parliament on the subject of the Orphans' Fund, they had spoken of it as having been dissipated during "the late troubles," but had not said a word of its having been seized by the Government.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the motion of the right hon. gentleman might be considered rather as an appeal from the judgment of the House on a former night, than a measure which had arisen from the inquiries of the committee. The authority of the right hon. gentleman was to be received also with some distrust, as he had said he had attended the committee with no other intention than to bring the question again before the House. There was no one could wish more for an investigation of the accounts than the Prince Regent; bat no ground had been shown to satisfy the House that it was
 [208 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 209] l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. [210 l. l. l.
 The Earl of Yarmouth , adverting to the observation of the right hon. mover, as to the Prince Regent's display of plate in 1811, stated that but a very small part of that plate belonged to his Royal Highness; and he would ask any gentleman in that House, or in the country, whether, when
 211]
 Mr. Wynn  animadverted strongly upon the appropriation of the 100,000 l. l. vivâ voce [212 vivâ voce,
 Mr. Rose  observed, that although nine or ten applications had been made to the House since the Civil List was established, in order to obtain the discharge of its arrears, no such proposition as the present was ever brought forward. In all former applications respecting the Civil List, accounts had been furnished, but in such a way as to throw no light whatever on the subject. [Hear, hear!] At present very minute details had been given, and every one who looked at them might judge of the state of the Civil List without examining witnesses  vivâ voce.
 Mr. Moore  maintained, that every
 213]
 The Speaker  said, that as private claims were connected with it, it must, in the first instance, go to a committee above stairs, who would report upon it, and, subsequently, it would come before a committee of the whole House.
 The Speaker  remarked, that it was too late for the hon. gentleman to make such a motion, consistently with the usage of the House.
 The Speaker  vindicated the conduct of the commissioners appointed to purchase an appropriate estate for the family of lord Nelson, who had, in pursuance of their duty, concluded for the purchase of the estate of Standlynch, which contained 2,500 acres, together with a suitable mansion, instead of Mr. Kemp's estate of 1,000 acres. But it was also to be observed, that Mr. Kemp could not, as he himself knew, make out a good title. The commissioners had not, however, been guilty of any injustice whatever, either towards Mr. Kemp or the public. This the right hon. gentleman illustrated, by describing the nature of the negociation with Mr. Kemp, and stating that only 87,000 l. l. [190
 Mr. Horner  observed, that the high bailiff was almost the only returning officer in the kingdom whose office was one of emolument as well as trust.
 Mr. Holme Sumner  was still of opinion that there was no necessity for building a new Post-office, and that even if it were desirable, the present was not the time for carrying such a design into effect. Where the present building stood, there were 2,000 square feet, which had not been built upon, and 13,000 more between the two lanes and the church close to it might be purchased at an expense of 38,000 l. [196 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Holme Sumner  said, he had omitted to move as an amendment, that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Mr. Tierney  rose for the purpose of bringing forward his promised motion upon this subject. He observed, that notwithstanding the lateness of the hour it would be more satisfactory if he were now to proceed, and not to postpone a subject of so much
 199] [200 l. l. l. 201] l. l. l. l. l. l. l. or-molu, l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. [202 l. l. l. l. l. l. 203] vivâ voce [204 l. 205] l. l. l. [206 l. 207]
 Mr. Tierney , in reply, observed, that the last speaker argued the question fairly and manfully, for he had laid down the broad principle that it was not to be admitted that any evidence should ever be examined as to the situation of the Civil List. Thus the right hon. gentleman would provide effectually against every prying person disposed to meddle with that subject. But then on the other hand if no such examination were allowed, did it not afford an encouragement to the Crown to contract debts, and to indulge in extravagance? For there could be no control if there were no power of inquiry; and inquiry must be useless, if no information was to be obtained upon which any reliance could be placed. As to the danger which some gentlemen professed to apprehend of improper scrutiny, if the power he required were granted to the committee, he would ask, whether such an apprehension could be seriously entertained by any man who looked at the members of that committee, who looked at the eight right hon. gentlemen about the Treasury-bench, all drawn up in battle array to guard the Crown against any indiscreet inquirers in the committee? The right hon. gentleman who spoke last had observed, that if he (Mr. T.) were on the
 [214 l. vivâ voce l. l. l., 215]
 Mr. Bankes  would not on any occasion-be inclined to go beyond the expenditure prescribed by actual necessity. He must admit that the present Post-office was extremely inconvenient; but he thought that as the business which had been for so many years conducted at it, was a pattern of dispatch and regularity, there was no necessity for the new building. But if it were necessary, he did not believe a better site could be chosen, as the ground was not dearer than it could be purchased anywhere else. It was a wrong idea that the business required tire constant attendance of such a number of persons, who had been represented as shut up in a lazaretto all day. On the contrary, they were not in attendance more
 195]
 Mr. Bankes  said, he was not aware that this proposition was to be brought forward to-day, or he would have prepared himself for the discussion, by refreshing his memory as to the principal points of Mr. Morris's case. He was enabled to state, however, from his recollection of what occurred in a former committee, that it was his opinion the sum claimed by Mr. Morris was much larger than the House ought to sanction.
 Mr. Bankes  was at a loss to know where the House could find a justification for giving the additional 9,000 l.
 Mr. Hammersley  said, he had carefully examined, with the other members of the committee, the numerous and great inconveniences attendant on the old Post-office. Great numbers of the valuable servants of, the Government, employed in carrying on this truly beneficial branch of the revenue, were shut up in close rooms, dirty and covered with, smoke, so that their health must be in danger, one would almost think, from suffocation. It had been obliged to be enlarged from time to time, and was a mass of old houses taken in and added at different periods, which rendered the communication of one office with another extremely difficult, and very often apparently dangerous to persons under the necessity of passing in haste from one to another. The passages, also, were so narrow and ill contrived, that as there were several hundreds there at a time in the course of the day, it was surprising they should come off without broken bones. With respect to the new Post-office, he thought the necessity of it was apparent; and as to its situation, he was inclined to think it as favourable as any that could be obtained. He agreed with his hon. friend who spoke last, that though no triumphal arches were necessary, yet in a public building of that nature, there ought to be a degree of magnificence in its ornamental decorations.
 Mr. Lockhart  replied, that the high bailiff was bound by the Act of Parliament to expenses to which other returning officers were not bound.
 Mr. Butterworth  thought those gentlemen who were on the committee must be satisfied that the removal of the Post-office was absolutely necessary. For the last 14 years the present Post-office had cost the country on the average not less than 6,000 l.
 Mr. Grenfell  recapitulated a part of the
 197]
 Mr. Charles Long  repeated the grounds on which the former committee had framed their Report. Their opinion was, that the present Post-office was totally inadequate to its object, and they had agreed that the plan. No. 1, was decidedly the best, and would be the most economical. In allusion to the remark of Mr. Western, that the public ought to bear the expense, the right hon. gentleman observed, that the greatest portion of the expense was to be borne by the public at large, and a moderate part by the City. The reason for appropriating a part of the Orphans Fund towards this expense was, that it combined a great public advantage with a considerable improvement in the city of London. He was decidedly in favour of the Bill, although he would have preferred the proposition foe altering the present Post-office, if it could possibly have been adopted.
 Mr. Long  stated, that the furniture provided for the accommodation of the Allied Sovereigns, and upon which the right hon. mover had so much animadverted, had been thus disposed of: part had been sent to Cumberland Lodge, and the remainder was lodged in proper stores, to be reserved for other purposes. With regard to the motion, he thought it a mere shifting of ground on the part of the right hon. gentleman. What on a former evening he moved for generally, he now proposed with respect to a particular person. But if the right hon. gentleman's proposition were acceded to, he no doubt meant to move also for the examination of other persons [Mr. Tierney nodded assent]. That being the case, he called upon the House to withstand the principle of the motion; which principle, if adopted, was but too likely to be acted upon hereafter, in a manner not so much calculated to promote public good as to gratify private pique.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he was surprised, if it had been thought necessary by the Crown that the grant to lord Nelson's family should be increased, that a message had not been brought down to that effect. No such message had been brought down, and the only plea for augmenting the grant was, that no estate could be found which could be purchased for the sum which had been granted. It therefore came to this question of fact, whether
 187] l.
 Mr. Whitbread  remarked upon the expressed disposition of the right hon. gentleman and the other commissioners, on the 2d of July last, to accede to the purchase of an estate, which was now felt to be in such an inaccessible situation, as to be quite unsuitable to the object, and to the proper dignity of lord Nelson's family.
 Mr. Lushington  rose to propose an additional grant of 9,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Thomas Courtenay  conceived that he was the member whose former opinions had been alluded to by Mr. Wynn. He had not denied the right of the House in regard to the Civil List; but he had stated, and he would state again, that from the period of the settlement of the Civil List upon its present footing, a few years after the Revolution, no such motion as that made by the right hon. gentleman had ever been agreed to, or even been proposed to the House; although there had been many hostile motions in regard to the Civil List. It was very true, that the House had, in the year 1780, resolved, that it had a right to correct abuses in the Civil List; but there were many branches of the Civil List besides those connected with the King's household, and a distinction of this nature had, at the time, been taken by sir Fletcher Norton. He would not now argue as to the effect of the statement which he had made; but being called upon by the hon. and learned gentleman, he could not forbear from repeating it; and he could assure the hon. and learned gentleman that he was quite mistaken in supposing that he had been on the former occasions "put forward" by ministers to make statements of this nature; they were the result of his own research; and he could not yield in this respect to the hon. and learned gentleman.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought, that leaving the negociation with Mr. Kemp entirely out of the question, the proposition before the committee ought not to be acceded to. As to Mr. Kemp, all that he had ever beard of that gentleman's case was, that he had some years ago bought an estate on cheap terms, which estate he was anxious to dispose of to lord Nelson, on such terms as should secure to himself an extraordinary bargain; but although no advocate for Mr. Kemp, he thought the contract with that gentleman binding. The right hon. gentleman who spoke last, but one, was, therefore, in error, if he supposed Mr. Kemp's case the cause of the obstacles which were presented to the proposed vote, and still more in error in assuming that those obstacles implied any disrespect to the memory of the late lord Nelson. For no such disrespect was felt; on the contrary, he himself, who was such a warm admirer of that hero as to be among the first to support the erection of a monument to his memory, in Norfolk, which monument would be a lasting honour to the object, and to the country, conceived it his duty to oppose this vote, because no circumstances appeared to him to have occurred since the original grant was voted, to make the additional sum now proposed either just or necessary. Even supposing the present earl were equally meritorious with his predecessor, he should, upon principle, feel himself bound to oppose the proposition. His objection was, that if there
 189] l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir James Shaw , on rising to move the second reading of the new Post-office Bill, adverted to the Report of the Committee, which the House had now perused, and which was so diffuse and clear as to leave no doubt upon the subject. He observed, that the only difference in the calculations of expense, arose from the difference of the proposed grounds; and the committee was decidedly in favour of the ground in the plan, Number 1, being that of Saint Martin's-le-Grand. The hon. baronet then explained the difference of the four plans which had been considered, and also the difference of the calculations of expense. The select committee, on presenting these different plans for the consideration of the House, had thought it incumbent on them to express their opinion as to that which was most eligible, and which appeared to be No. 1. An hon. member had certainly made a great impression on the House, by stating that the enormous sum of 700 or 800,000 l. l. [192
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, that while honourable members were differing about decorations to new buildings, he must beg to remind them, that there was an old public building in this metropolis that was still unfinished. He meant Somerset-house, which was left in such a state in some parts of it as to be a disgrace to the country.
 Sir William Curtis  said, the City intended to contribute towards the expense of the new Post-office out of their own funds. They meant to raise a sum of money for that purpose by duties on wine and coals brought to the port of London. An hon. gentleman had correctly given the history of the Orphans' Fund; but he had not stated the means by which it was taken from the City in former times. Thank God! the country had now an honest Government! but formerly the country was differently circumstanced, and in troublesome times Government had laid hands on the money entrusted to the City, which formed the Orphans' Fund. By the advances made from the Orphans'
 [198
 Lord Milton  was surprised that none of the City members had risen to vindicate the city of London from the charge preferred against them by the hon. gentleman, who had represented them to be disposed to pay part of the expense of this great undertaking out of funds which were not their own. While pretending to pay out of their own pockets, they in fact imposed a tax, not only on the city of London, but on the city of Westminster, and on all places in their vicinity, as in all the duty on coals tended to advance the price of fuel. Before the city came forward in aid of such an undertaking with their pretended generosity, they ought to show that they did not do this out of the funds of others; and this done, unless they derived a greater benefit from the proposed change than the inhabitants of other places, the expense ought to be borne by the public at large. At all events, if they did contribute towards the new building, they ought to do it at their own expense, and not out of funds which they had appropriated to themselves by means which he would not describe.
 Lord Milton  wished to know in what manner the Bill was to be committed.
 Mr. Shaw  rose to present a petition from certain merchants of London, against the Ship Letter Act. They particularly complained of the clause which enabled the port officers to search for letters and parcels on board merchant vessels. Their ground of complaint was, that they were obliged to pay, in cases where Government had provided no mode of communication, for the transfer of their correspondence. To this clause their main objection applied.
 Mr. Forbes  concurred in the object of the petitioners. In the affairs of the East India Company he had had opportunities of seeing the inconveniences which arose from such a regulation as this Act imposed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Bill contained no new provisions; some of its clauses were as old as the reign of queen Anne. The Government, on behalf of the revenue, had no idea of imposing inconveniences upon the mercantile interest of the country; and he had little doubt, that on a general view of the subject, such regulations might be made as would answer all purposes, without the intervention of injury or inconvenience to any of the parties.
 Mr. Forbes  repeated his objections to the Act, and gave notice, that on that day week he would move For copies of all correspondence relative to this subject, between the Postmasters-general and the Court of Directors of the East India Company, also between the East India Agents and the Lords of the Treasury.
 Mr. Addingion  said the Bill was merely a revival of the measure brought forward eighteen months ago, and therefore that its character and object were fully known to the country.
 General Thornton  observed, that some improvement was necessary in the system of this establishment. He could not conceive any good reason why the public should not be admitted into this institution every day, instead of being excluded three days in the week, as was the present custom; and he thought that more facilities should be afforded to the reading of the books contained in the Museum. At present no one was allowed to look into those books without a recommendation from a trustee, or some officer of the House; and those country gentlemen and others who had no acquaintance with those trustees or officers, were, however respectable, excluded from any access to this valuable library.
 General Thornton  called to the recollection of the hon. gentleman, that those prints were purloined, not by an ordinary visitor, but by a friend of a reverend gentleman, one of the officers of the Museum. He hoped that the suggestions which he had thrown out would be taken into
 227]
 General Thornton  hoped the hon. and learned gentleman would not then press the second reading, as many members who were decidedly hostile to the principles of the Bill, and who intended to oppose it, had left the House.
 General Thornton  rose to order. He said he had been unwilling to prevent the learned Serjeant from replying to the hon. and learned gentleman, but he must now desire that the House might be counted.
 The Speaker  said, that considering the great importance of the Bill, and the just and weighty observations of the hon. and learned member, he should take the liberty of moving—That the chairman do leave the chair, report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Bathurst  admitted, that the American army was on the eve of its arrival in this country, but its services were likely to be called into action for purposes which might render its removal necessary. The only question was, whether it was likely that the public interest should at a future time require the service of the local militia for 28 days in particular places. If such an event was probable, he trusted the House would agree to the Bill.
 Lord Stanley  said, the present Bill was a subversion of the militia system, as at first established. When the regulars were called from their respective counties, the local militia, at great inconvenience, undertook their duty, but upon condition, that they should not be sent from their own district. With what justice could they now be put to this inconvenience, when several of the regiments, whose removal had first caused this change, were about to return from America? in fact, part of them had actually reached some of the ports in Ireland. He therefore hoped the Bill, if enacted, would become nugatory.
 Mr. Horner  called the attention of the committee to a clause of the Bill which enacted that his Majesty should be empowered to retain the service of foreign troops for twelve months after the conclusion of any war in which he might happen to be engaged. There were other points connected with the Bill, such as the appointing foreign officers to commissions in British regiments, which he thought demanded the most serious attention of the House, and especially when they recollected the wholesome and constitutional jealousy which our ancestors entertained of the employment of foreign troops. He was sure many members who were then absent, would be anxious to express an opinion upon such a Bill, and to know from the framers of it the precise objects it was intended to embrace. He did not mean to oppose its present stage, but he thought it his duty to state thus shortly his view of the Bill.
 Mr. Horner  was proceeding to make some observations, when
 Mr. Holme Sumner  was of opinion, that an understood bargain existed between the Legislature and those men who were now enlisted, which ought not to be broken in upon. He should not oppose the motion, though he must confess that his right hon. friend had disappointed his expectations in it.
 Mr. Bankes  thought that the system upon Which the Museum was at present conducted scarcely admitted of any improvement, and particularly deprecated the idea of farther facilitating access to the library of that institution. For it must be known, that through improper facilities, many public libraries had been, stripped of the most valuable books. Such had notoriously happened to the public library of Paris, when opened indiscriminately to all visitors; and it would be recollected that several valuable prints had recently been stolen from the British, Museum.
 Mr. Wrottesley  thought the measure might be salutary, as the House had agreed on the necessity of additional means of defence; but he thought, instead of accepting the volunteering of whole regiments, it would be better to take a few men only from each, and thus leave those who had families or business in their counties to attend to them. As the emergency was as great now as it was
 225]
 Mr. Addington  explained, that the regular militia being at present very incomplete, the object of the present Bill was to enable the Local Militia to supply the vacancies, or to move out of their respective counties, if necessary, to take garrison duty, that the regulars and old militia might increase the effective force of the country.
 Mr. Addington  rose to state the grounds on which he should move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the King to accept the services of the Local Militia, either in or out of their counties, under certain restrictions. The Bill, in fact, which he intended to propose was a revival, with certain modifications, of the Act of the 53rd of the King, which expired on the 25th of March last. Under the particular circumstances of the period when that Act was passed, such a large portion of our regular army and militia had been called away to serve under the duke of Wellington, that, lest the fortresses should be denuded of troops, the Local Militia had been allowed to volunteer for garrison duty. The present situation of affairs had called on the Government again to propose such a measure to the House, in consequence of a great part of the regular army having been embarked for the continent, while a considerable portion of the remainder had not yet arrived from America. The alteration he should propose in the present Bill was, that the time during which they might remain on duty, which in the former Act had been 42 days, should be limited to 28 days, the longer term having been found inconvenient, particularly in the agricultural counties. He concluded by moving, "That leave be given to bring in a Bill to enable his Majesty to accept the services of the Local Militia, either in or out of their counties, under certain restrictions."
 Mr. Finlay  said, the subject was one of great inconvenience, so much so, that the owners of vessels, in several commercial towns would not allow any letters to be sent through their medium, lest their ships
 221]
 Mr. N. Calvert  was of opinion that the measure would altogether fail in its effects. It could only succeed where great influence was used over the men, such as was possessed by lord Rolle. In some parts, all the officers might turn out, and none of the men might follow.
 Mr. Babington  thought that much of its success would depend on the facilities which would be afforded for providing for the families of the men during their absence.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  moved the second reading of the Bill for the amendment of the laws relating to insolvent debtors.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  agreed that it would be useless to discuss the Bill in so thin a House. He should be happy to have the
 [228
 Mr. Serjeant Best  said, he was not so much attached to the provisions of the measure he had introduced, as to reject any clauses which his hon. and learned friend, or any other gentleman, might propose for the purpose of carrying his object into effect, and, at the same time, removing the objections to the present Bill. He abhorred and detested perpetual imprisonment, as much as any gentleman could; but still he looked upon the term of confinement, under the Act which he was desirous of amending, as too short to effect any useful purpose. His hon. and learned friend
 [230 231] l. [232
 Mr. W. Elliot  objected to this system of recruiting, on the general principle, that the men were induced to give a reluctant consent, by being placed in a very odious situation if they refused. He trusted nobody would doubt his earnestness for the defence of the country, but be did not think the circumstances in which it was placed rendered the present measure indispensable.
 Sir Egerton Brydges,  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the removal of chargeable paupers till a final adjudication of their respective settlements, observed, that it might at first view appear extraordinary that the law could ever have been otherwise than according to the proposal which he was now about to make. But in looking back to the times when magistrates were first authorized to remove, it would be found that the question of settlements did not then, as now, involve decisions on some of the most intricate and subtle points of the law. It was intended merely to give power to justices to remove those who had no fixed abode in a parish to the place of their last residence; or, if they had none such, of their birth. But the law of settlements had long become so complex and voluminous, that it seemed utterly grievous and intolerable to continue to delegate a power so vitally affecting the happiness, livelihood, and morals of paupers, and so expensive to parishes, to a hasty first decision of two magistrates founded on  ex-parte [222 223]
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he had no desire to press the second reading at present, nor to provoke a debate upon the Bill itself; but, as it was probable he should not have any future opportunity of delivering his sentiments, he would venture to trouble the House with a few observation. The Bill, in its present form, certainly appeared to him very objectionable. It embraced two objects; the one, to compel the application of a debtor's property to the payment of his debts; and the other, to inflict a certain proportion of punishment upon debtors who had no property, or only a small portion. With regard to the former, nothing certainly could be more desirable; but he did not think the mode provided by the present Bill was the best. It was hostile to all the soundest principles of legislation, to compel a man to make a declaration upon oath, and then, if that declaration was not true in every respect, to punish him as a felon. He was aware that in the bankrupt laws such a practice prevailed; but it did not, therefore, follow that it was wise to adopt the same practice with regard to all debtors. It was torturing a man's conscience against himself, in a manner which the House ought to pause upon before they sanctioned it. Another objection which he felt to that provision of the Bill was, that its very severity would render it ineffectual, as was the case with the Lords' Act, from which he believed it was exactly copied, and. which was already obsolete, there being but few instances in the memory of the oldest professional men where it had been enforced. It would be much better, therefore, to dispense with an enactment, which would soon become a mere dead letter, and substitute in its stead something which might accomplish the desired end. It was fair that debtors should be obliged to give up their property; but the mode of compulsion proposed by his hon. and learned friend, appeared to him to be too severe. He strongly objected to the graduated scale, connected with the Bill, by which a debtor, having given up all his property, was to be imprisoned for a greater or a less time, in proportion to the quantity of debt he was enabled to liquidate. Thus, if a man's property was only equal to the payment of 5 s. 229] s.
 Lord Milton  contended, that circumstances did not warrant this measure. At the time when the last Act was deemed necessary, every body was anxious to give all possible assistance to the country, under the very extraordinary situation in which it was placed, and, however unconstitutional the measure, no objection was made to it. But in the way ministers were proceeding, the Militia and the Local Militia Acts were a mere nullity, for there was never a session in which some alteration was not made in them. Every step led to another, and it was impossible the men could have any con-
 [224
 Lord Milton  observed, that as very few persons in the country were aware of a measure of this nature, it was proper to allow due time for its consideration before it should be read a second time.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that the ratification of the Treaty alluded to had not yet been received from Vienna, and that therefore he could not answer the hon. gentleman's question.
 Lord Castlereagh  answered, that he should move the adjournment on Friday, until Thursday in the next week.
 Mr. Ponsonby  asked, whether it was intended to lay before the House a copy of the communication from our Government to that of Russia, in 1811, including the letter of the Prince Regent to the Emperor Alexander?
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that be did not think it would be advantageous to the public service to present the communication alluded to by the right hon. gentleman; and he was persuaded, that if the right hon. gentleman were aware of the nature of the objection, he would be of the same opinion.
 Mr. Ponsonby  declared, that he was not aware of any objection to the production of this paper.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for exempting from the payment of parochial rates, churches, chapels, and other places exclusively appropriated to the purposes of religious worship, and the gratuitous instruction of the poor.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted the necessity of resorting to this plan of finance; but he had the consolation to think that the evils to which the hon. member alluded, and which he admitted to have been considerable under former arrangements of the lottery, were now done away through the establishment of a variety of salutary checks, among which the shortness of the period in which each lottery was drawn, was perhaps the most effective, as it put an end to the gambling to which the length of that period hereto-
 [240
 Mr. Whitbread  was glad to hear that the evil was diminished, but he should rather have heard that it was entirely removed. From the right hon. gentleman's character he was led to expect that be was not disposed to sell so much wickedness for so small a price.
 Mr. Whitbread  expressed his entire approbation of the measure, which, in his opinion, ought to have been adopted long; since, for the satisfaction of those religious persons, who were, he hoped, very numerous in this country; but he could not forbear from saying, that he was sorry to have such a laudable measure preceded by a Resolution so subversive of morality as the continuance of lotteries.
 Mr. Whitbread  strongly objected to this scheme of finance, as inconsistent with the principles of public morality. Indeed, the evils resulting from lotteries were so fully disclosed in the Reports of two committees of that House, that he could not help expressing his surprise at the proposed continuance of such a system by any Chancellor of the Exchequer, but especially by the right hon. gentleman opposite, who uniformly professed so much solicitude for the interests of morality. Some checks were, he was lord, imposed upon the evils heretofore produced by lotteries; but he was decidedly of opinion, that no profit could accrue to the public treasury, sufficient to compensate for the evil which lotteries were calculated to produce.
 Mr. Whitbread  expressed his hope, that a subject of so much importance as the Treaty to which he bad alluded would
 239]
 Mr. Whitbread  asked, upon what day and to what extent the noble lord proposed to move an adjournment for the holidays?
 Mr. Whitbread  inquired whether any message was to be expected from the Crown, within the present or the next week, with respect to the late Treaty with the Allies?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as to the second Resolution, which respected Exchequer bills, he should move that it be re-committed, in order to make an alteration in the form of it, as it appeared that the old subscribers, who were allowed to subscribe to the amount of 80 per cent, on their former subscriptions, had not come forward with subscriptions enough to fill up the whole sum which it was intended to raise.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had been induced to make the change in consequence of a representation that the subscription would not be filled up under the former plan. The purchasers of Exchequer bills would not be losers, as the original subscribers would still be at liberty, as before, to set down their names to the amount of 80 per cent, on their former subscriptions.
 Mr. Rose  said a faw words in favour of the measure.
 Mr. Wynn  gave no opinion on the measure before the House, but thought that the great source of the expense and criminality at contested elections, arose from the non-resident voters, with respect to whom some measure should be adopted.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  said, the small farmers in Ireland had it not in their power to brew their own beer; they were really incapable. He was friendly to the establishment of breweries in that country, which was proved by his having preferred a tax on malt, to a direct beer duty, which would be more likely to pre-
 251]
 Mr. Serjeant  Onslow moved, "That a committee be appointed to inspect the Journals of the House of Lords, with relation to any proceeding upon the Bill, intituled, 'An 'Act for more effectually securing the liberty of the subject;' and to make report thereof to the House:"—and a committee was appointed accordingly.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, the difficulties of the sister country were such, that it was impossible to adopt any measure that would be entirely effectual, or to which some objection could not be offered. He
 [250
 Mr. Wetherell  thought the Bill could not be rendered justifiable by any particular case of inconvenience.
 Mr. Tierney  said the proposed measure being one which would deprive persons who had a perfect right from exercising it
 249]
 Mr. Tierney —If I understand the hon. baronet, he has mentioned, that claims of a definitive nature will be submitted to the House, in formal resolutions, if the committee be granted. Now, I wish to know whether those resolutions speak the sense of the whole Catholic body, or only of at part of it? And if the latter be the case of what portion does it speak the sentiments?
 Mr. Tierney  said, that in consequence of the change in the mind of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the short space of two hours on Monday morning, several persons had been losers to a considerable extent. The right hon. gentleman had at first sent a letter to the city, in which it was said that Exchequer bills only would be received in the hew subscriptions; in consequence of which Exchequer bills rose 7 and 8, and even 10 shillings. Shortly, after, however, a new letter was sent, in which it was said that Exchequer bills were not at all necessary. The consequence was, that Exchequer bills fell as much as they had before
 [246
 Mr. Bankes  gave notice that he should to-morrow move that the House be called over on this day fortnight, as every one must be of opinion that on such an important question as would then come on, a full attendance was requisite.
 Mr. Bankes  said he did not hold himself bound to give his assent to the previous stage which had been given notice of by the hon. baronet, as the case was not one in which the House was ignorant of what it was required (as the hon. baronet had termed it) they should do. He felt it his duty to resist, on every opportunity, the claims of the petitioners, if they insisted on them in their full extent.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that the Bill would disfranchise many of his constituents, and other voters, who were sea-faring men, and therefore had often no opportunity to take out their freedom before the time of election, although on that account there could be no reasonable objection to their votes.
 Mr. Lockhart,  according to notice, moved for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the right of freemen and burgesses to vote at elections of members to serve in parliament. He observed that the object of the measure which he had to propose was to oblige freemen to take out their freedom a certain short time before they could vote. Such a measure was called for by the great number of persons who took an opportunity to become freemen of boroughs immediately before a contested election, whereby the expense of those contests was increased to an extravagant amounts. Whether the period was three months, one month, or even a fortnight, it would answer the purpose which he had in view.
 Mr. W. Smith  denied the justice of the right hon. gentleman's observation, when he said, that it was impossible, because the population of Ireland was much scattered, to introduce malt liquor amongst them. The very contrary of his inference was the fact. Where great numbers of persons met together, in cities, far more spirits were consumed, than the same number would make use of, if they were scattered through the country. One hundred thousand people spread over the country, and engaged in agricultural pursuits, would not consume one-tenth part of the spirits, in a given time, that would be drunk by the like number of persons in London or Manchester.
 Mr. W. Smith  observed, that the general consumption of malt liquor in this country did not originate in the formation, of large breweries, but was effected by the small farmers, who brewed their own beer.
 Sir H. Parnell  gave notice, that he should on this day week move the resolutions  pro forma,
 Sir Henry Parnell. —I can answer the questions of the right hon. gentleman, I think satisfactorily. This is the petition of certain Roman Catholics of Ireland, whose signatures are affixed thereto, on behalf of themselves and the Catholic body of Ireland. It comes exactly from the same description of persons with whom the other petitions, on the same subjects
 247]
 Sir Henry Parnell  said:—Sir; I hold in my hand a Petition from the Roman Catholics of Ireland. The gentlemen who intrusted it to my care have informed me, that the Roman Catholics are particularly anxious that the merits of their claims should be taken into consideration during the present session. I think it proper, therefore, to give notice, that I shall move, on this day fortnight, that the House do form itself into a committee, to take into consideration the laws affecting the Roman Catholics. Prior to that period, if the courtesy of the House will allow me, I shall submit certain Resolutions, containing the full extent of the claims of the Catholic body. I do not mean to introduce them for the purpose of provoking a premature discussion; but from a desire to pot the House in possession of every thing relating to those claims. I shall afterwards more the Resolutions in the committee, if it be conceded. At present I shall merely move, "That the Petition be now read."
 Sir J. C Hippisley  observed, that he should be very ready to enter into an adequate investigation of the claims of so considerable a body as the Catholics of Ireland, as far as could tend to the fulfil-
 [248
 Sir M. W. Ridley  disapproved of the measure.
 Sir J. Newport  thought some measure was necessary to put it out of the power of the mayor to act partially with respect to the admission of freemen. It was now in the power of the mayor in many places to refuse to admit a freeman at a particular time, by declining to call a court for his admission.
 Sir John Newport  said, it had long been the anxious wish of the House to discourage the consumption of spirits in Ireland, and to introduce malt liquor, as a more wholesome beverage. This feeling was founded in a laudable desire to promote habits of morality and industry amongst the lower classes in that country. Now, he feared, that the increased malt duty, under this Bill, would have the effect of bringing the Irish population back to the use of spirits. The right hon. gentleman, he was aware, had laid an additional tax on the distilleries, proportioned to the augmentation of the duty on the brewery; but this was likely materially to encourage the practice of illicit distillation.
 Sir J. Newport  pointed out the necessity of establishing large breweries in those districts where illicit distillation was known to be most prevalent.
 Mr. Bankes  rose, in pursuance of notice, to propose his motion for a call of the House. He had reason to hope, however, from his communication with the hon. baronet (sir H. Parnell), that he would postpone the important question, of which he had given notice, to Tuesday the 30th; and he should therefore move the call of the House for that day, by which time the members would be enabled to attend from all parts of the kingdom. He begged to observe, that at that time he should, as far as lay in his power, enforce the call.
 Sir H. Parnell , lest he should appear to precipitate the question before a sufficient attendance could be obtained, consented to postpone his motion on the Catholic Claims to Tuesday the 30th; wishing to be understood, that as the session would then be pretty far advanced, he should absolutely bring forward the question on that day.
 Lord Althorpe  gave notice of his intention to submit a motion to the House on Tuesday next, with respect to the application of the sum of 100,000 l
 Lord Castlereagh  stated, that the application of the sum alluded to had been explained by a communication from authority to the House.
 Mr. Wynn  professed himself unable to imagine the nature of the authority referred to by the noble lord. Did the noble lord mean his own statement in the course of a late discussion?
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that the communication to which he referred had been made to the committee appointed to investigate the expenditure of the Civil List, through which committee that communication would naturally come before the House.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that steps had been taken some days ago to present it, and he presumed that it had been made.
 Lord Althorpe  observed, that the motion of which he had given notice would not refer to the view which the noble lord appeared to have taken of the subject, but to what he (lord A.) considered the unconstitutional mode of applying the 100,000 l
 General Thornton  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend certain parts of the Act commonly called the Riot Act. By that Act, those persons who should not disperse within an hour after the reading of the Act, were to be subject even to the loss of their lives. His object was, not to require so long a period as an hour to elapse, but to provide that upon the reading of the Act, the mob should disperse immediately.
 257]
 Mr. Yorker  rose at the same time, and said, that perhaps it would have been sufficient for him to join his 'no' to the general negative that the motion seemed likely to experience. He was sure that the principles which the hon. general had stated as the reasons for this Bill would not be supported by the House.
 Mr. Yorke  rose to order, and asked whether the hon. baronet meant to conclude with any motion, because his observations would otherwise be irregular.
 Mr. Yorke  seconded the views of the last speaker, declaring that he would be better pleased if the hon. baronet would consent to withdraw his motion. But he must add, that the hon. baronet's mode of proceeding appeared to him to be altogether novel and irregular—quite in opposition indeed to the standing order of the House, with regard to any question upon the subject of religion. If it were, as it appeared, the only object of the hon. baronet to get his Resolutions published, there were various means by which he might have contrived to give them publicity, without this mode of taking the House by surprise. As the notice of a motion upon this subject stood for Tuesday se'nnight, he should not at present enter into the general question; against the object of which, however, he felt no hesitation in protesting at the present time. The right hon. gentleman concluded with observing, that he could not help expressing his regret that this subject had been taken out of the hands by which it was usually conducted, because, if it had remained in those hands, it was not likely that the House would have been exposed to such inconvenience and irregularity as the present mode of proceeding involved.
 Mr. Peel  observed that the precedent alluded to had no analogy to the case of the hon. baronet, for the hon. baronet,
 265]
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that the contract was different with the balloted men, and many that had been raised as substitutes.
 Viscount Folkestone  could not omit the opportunity of just noticing to the House how completely the opinions of the crown lawyers respecting the embodying of the militia were overthrown by the motion of the noble lord. The Attorney and Solicitor General had stated, that the militia being once called out, it was optional in the Crown to keep them embodied; and they had expressly argued, that any portion of the militia being embodied, the Crown might call out the whole of them again, without giving notice to Parliament. According to this doctrine, therefore, the bill which the noble lord proposed to bring in was totally unnecessary; but he believed, that the noble lord attached very little weight to those opinions,
 267]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the reason why the Bill was necessary was, because a great part of the militia had been disembodied. And whatever opinion might be entertained of the prerogative possessed by the Crown to continue the militia, when once called out, it was never understood that the Crown had the power, in case of war, to call out the disembodied militia by its own authority.
 Viscount Folkestone  replied, that the 144th clause of the Act had been cited as authorizing the Crown to call out the militia, and keep it embodied.
 The Attorney General  would leave the noble lord to enjoy his imaginary triumph, and would only say, that the motion made by the noble Secretary of State, to call out the whole or any part of the militia in the present circumstances of the country, by no means implied that the opinion of the law officers was unsound—the opinion given was, that when the militia were legally called out, his Majesty might disembody or embody them as the public service required. A new state of things like the present might, however, justify a different course.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that the communication which he intended to make on Monday would embrace, the point to which the right hon. gentleman had alluded.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that the neces-
 [268 d d d s d l
 Mr. Shaw , of Dublin, expressed his decided approbation of the measure.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose, pursuant to notice, in order to move for leave to bring in a Bill to authorize the drawing out and embodying of the whole or any part of the regular Militia. On the assurances which the House had already given of a disposition to support the executive authority in making adequate preparations for the security of the country in the present emergency, he grounded this proposition; and in the course of the discussion of the Bill further opportunity would be afforded for the consideration of the nature of that emergency, together with the general circumstances in which the empire was placed. At present he did not think it necessary to enter into these circumstances; and the more so, as he hoped to be enabled on Monday to bring down a Message from the Prince Regent, with regard to the arrangements which had been entered into with our Allies, together with copies of the subsidiary treaties which had been concluded. That Message he should propose to be considered on Tuesday, and on Wednesday it was intended to submit a motion in conformity with the subsidiary treaties. He was therefore confident, that under the existing state of things, the House would not hesitate in enabling him to bring in the Bill. As such a measure always had effect when the country was menaced, the very circumstance of the probability of a war with France was sufficient to authorize it; at any rate, it required no stretch of construction to sanction the Bill, for the very nature of the preparations which it was the duty of the country to make,
 [266
 Mr. Peele  said, the worthy alderman's argument answered itself; he first ob-
 269]
 The Speaker.  Then the hon. member offers to the House the first of these Resolutions for their assent. The question then is: "That it is expedient that the Roman Catholic inhabitants of these realms shall not be liable or subject to any laws for the limitation, charging, or discovering of their estates, real or personal, or touching the acquiring, enjoying, holding, or disposing of properly of any kind or nature, save such as the Protestant inhabitants of these realms are liable and subject to."
 The Speaker. —Such is the standing order.
 The Speaker  apprehended that the hon. member had not distinctly made himself understood as to what was the nature and object of his motion.
 The Speaker  replied, that the hon. member had described a certain paper which he held in his hand to be a series of Resolutions come to by the Catholics of Ireland, and he understood him to intend to move that the paper so described be brought up.
 The Speaker.  The hon. member now makes another motion. Which, therefore, is the motion that he intends to propose? I understood him to intend to move two different things; first, that the Resolutions should be brought up; and afterwards, that the House should agree to the first Resolution.
 Mr. Tierney  asked when this communication was made to the committee, for he had not yet heard of it, although a member of that committee.
 Mr. Tierney  begged to ask the noble lord, whether any, and what answer had been returned to the communication which the French Government had made to this country, and which was afterwards transmitted to the Congress at Vienna? Did the noble lord intend to give any information to the House on that subject on Monday next?
 Mr. Bankes , observing that he should abstain at present from entering at large into the merits of the Catholic question, suggested for the consideration of the hon. baronet, that he was proceeding disadvantageously for his own object; because he himself, for instance, if called upon to vote upon this Resolution, as it appeared to be one of a string of resolutions, should feel it his duty to vote against it; and thus if the motion were rejected, the hon. baronet was liable to be deprived of the head and front of the object which he desired to attain. The clauses alluded to by the hon. baronet were, he was aware, ordered to be printed; but that order was made through a sort of private consent and convention between gentlemen on both sides of the question, to which convention he and others felt it inconsistent to accede with respect to the present resolutions, and of that the hon. baronet
 [264
 General Gascoyne  did not object generally to the measure; but as it must affect the interests of his constituents, he hoped the right hon. gentleman would not press it, but give time to the merchants of Liverpool to consider of the proposed duties, and to state their sentiments upon the subject.
 Alderman Atkins > said, he was very much averse to any tax upon shipping. He thought it would be better, if the whole expense was paid out of the public purse. He added, that if these duties were imposed, the ship-owners would be obliged to raise the price of their freight.
 Mr. Peter Moore.  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Peter Moore  declared that his support to the motion arose from the fact, that certain Resolutions, explanatory of the redress which the petitioners sought, were identified with it. This would enable them the better to judge, how far they would go, and where they would stop. He could see no irregularity in receiving resolutions of this kind, and having them printed  pro forma:
 Mr. W. Smith  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the purpose of rendering general certain provisions which were at present to be found in several local acts, with a view to prevent the embezzlement or waste of any property provided for the poor. The first object of his Bill, the hon. member described to be, to subject to a certain penalty, any persons who should knowingly purchase any of the property alluded to; and the second to prevent trustees or overseers of the poor from selling any articles for the use of the poor, from which they could derive profit. The
 [256
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  expressed his surprise at the objection of the hon. alderman. Every seaman knew how dangerous the bay of Dublin was; and he was convinced that there was not a ship-owner, whose vessels entered the bay of Dublin, who would not cheerfully pay the duty to have the harbour improved.
 Sir H. Parnell  willingly acquiesced in the suggestion of the hon. member (Mr. Bankes), and withdrew his motion, as the only object he had in view was accomplished, namely, that of explaining to the House the objects necessary to satisfy the wishes of the Cætholics of Ireland.
 Sir H. Parnell  conceived, that it was not necessary for him to prove an exact analogy in order to justify his reference to the precedent alluded to.
 Sir H. Parnell  also spoke in favour of it.
 Sir Henry Parnell  rose, pursuant to notice, to submit certain Resolutions to the House with respect to the claims of the Roman Catholics of Ireland. In these Resolutions it was his object to explain the course of proceeding which he proposed to pursue, with a view to satisfy the parties referred to, without meaning to lead the House into any premature discussion. The House, he observed, was now placed in different circumstances from those which existed upon any former discussion
 [258
 Sir H. Parnell  answered, that understanding the House would not agree to his first motion, he had changed it.
 Sir H. Parnell  rejoined, that he should move the first Resolution, finding that to be a more proper course, than taking them generally.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he wished to move that these Resolutions be brought up.
 Sir Henry Parnell  replied, that it was not his intention to have concluded with any motion; but in order to conform to order, he now meant to move his first Resolution, after stating the nature of the several Resolutions which he held in his hand, and which contained a precise description of what the Catholics of Ireland required Parliament to do in their behalf. These Resolutions, which he meant on a future day to submit to the consideration of a committee of the whole House, he proposed to have printed; and in making this proposition, he was governed by the precedent established by the House in the case of the right honourable member for Liverpool, whose clauses for the security of the Protestant Establishment, as those clauses were denominated, were ordered to be printed. The hon. baronet then read the following Resolutions:— 259] [260 261] l [262 A. B A. B
 Sir Egerton Brydges  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to revive the use of funeral certificates. He said that funeral certificates contained a record of the time and place of the deaths and burial of the nobility and gentry, and upper classes of society, which were certified by the executors or administrators and some near relation of the deceased, together with their marriages and issue, if any; and were filed and registered in the College of Arms. These had been in regular use from 1568 to 1680; indeed, one existed in the case of sir Thomas Brandon, K. G. as early as 1509. Of all the records which had ever been used as evidence in questions of in heritance as well to property as to titles of honour, these had been found the most
 255] inquisitiones post mortem
 Lord Milton  thought, that by the present regulations, if the five years for which the militia-men were enlisted had expired during the war, they would not be entitled to their discharge.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  moved, "That the chairman be instructed to move the House for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the payment of the duties of customs on foreign goods imported into Great Britain from Ireland, or into Ireland from Great Britain, and of the drawbacks on the exportation of goods, the growth, produce, or manufacture of Great Britain or Ireland, having been imported into either country from the other."
 Mr. Fitzgerald  stated, that his proposition was brought forward in consequence of doubts which arose upon this subject out of the construction of the Act of Union, the sanctity of which he could assure the right hon. baronet he was as anxious to maintain as any man.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  said, he was acting in conformity to the opinion of the counsel of certain public Boards, who entertained doubts upon this subject, with which doubts, however, he did not himself concur. Therefore he had no wish to press the Bill, as the doubts alluded to would probably be removed by a discussion in that House. But he trusted that no objection would be made to have the Bill brought in.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped, in the absence of his noble friend, the hon. and learned gentleman would suffer his motion to remain in the hands of the Speaker, as a notice of a motion for a future day. He had parted from his noble friend no longer ago than at four o'clock, when he left him preparing to come down to the House. He had expected him up to that moment, and surmised from his absence, that unexpected business of importance had detained him. His noble friend, he doubted not would feel it to be his duty to communicate to the House all the information he possessed on the subject which had been brought under their consideration. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said he believed the letter of the duke of Wellington, which had appeared in the French papers, to be a genuine letter, but the opinion it expressed was not founded on the documents which his noble friend had communicated to the House; and the impression on the mind of the duke of Wellington with respect to the conduct of Marshal Murat, had experienced a complete change, when those documents to which he had last referred were laid before him. With respect to the statement contained in the foreign journals—it did not strike him that a charge of having forged the papers in question was set up against the ministers of this country; but it appeared that the French Government, for its own purposes, had represented certain persons in the Royal Government to have garbled the documents to which they had access, in order to make them such as should produce an undue impression on the minds of those to whom they were communicated. This was an explanation which he felt anxious to make.
 Lord Castlereagh  was disposed to express his acknowledgments to the hon. and learned gentleman for the early opportunity he had afforded him of offering some explanation on the publication which had been made in another country; but if the hon. and learned gentleman had delayed bringing this subject before the House, till the papers now printing were produced, it was probable that in them, he would have found much of the information he wanted. The letter of the duke of Wellington, dated January 4, 1814, was a perfectly correct paper, but the opinion expressed therein applied to documents totally different from those which he had communicated to the House. It was certainly true, that some papers relative to the conduct of Murat were found, and communicated to the duke of Wellington, before he last left Paris, and the answer which he had given proved that there was no disposition on his part, as the servant of the English Government, hastily to decide against Murat, on charges which were not borne out by facts. The opinion he (the duke of Wellington) then expressed, was founded on documents totally distinct from those which had subsequently been obtained. Those which he (lord Castlereagh) had communicated, had been discovered on the interval which passed between the duke of Wellington's arrival at Vienna, and his (lord Castlereagh's) leaving Paris and arriving in London. These documents had been forwarded to him officially by the French minister, regularly certified. It was said that these papers had been falsified. There were in all eight letters, five of which were genuine beyond dispute. The only documents in which a question could be raised, were the three letters of Buonaparté, which had been found, not as the others were, but in the only state in which such docu
 279] [280
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he had not meant, in what he had said, to throw any blame on the conduct of the hon. and learned gentleman; on the contrary, he had expressed gratitude to him for the early opportunity afforded him of giving that explanation which he thought necessary. He did not believe that any culpable delay had taken place on the part of the officers charged with the execution of the former order of the House for the production of papers; but the voluminous nature of them, added to the circumstance of many of them having to be translated, had necessarily caused a considerable portion of time to elapse before they could be produced. As to the questions of the hon. and learned gentleman respecting the documents on which the opinion of the Duke of Wellington had been founded,
 [282
 Lord Castlereagh  was willing to produce the document, if it was in his possession. He distinctly recollected being told at Vienna, that certain documents respecting the conduct of Murat had been submitted to the Duke of Wellington, and also that he had been informed of the answer which he had given. He did not know if the letter was now in his office; but he admitted that which had been published to be genuine. He considered the docu-
 283]
 Lord Castlereagh  had not understood any of those documents to have been at that time submitted to him.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that documents on which no case could be founded be had considered to be very unimportant for him to see.
 Lord Castlereagh  stated, that the three documents which were last found in the archives, were not discovered till after he had left Paris. Surprise had been expressed at papers being thus found from time to time; but this had arisen, as he had been informed by the French Government, from the circumstances of the documents being very numerous in the archives, and consequently consuming much time in the examination. All were in the possession of the Government in January last, though from the length of time taken up by the search, they could not be discovered at that period.
 Lord Castlereagh  certainly admitted that the hon. and learned gentleman had expressed a doubt on the subject; but at the same time it had appeared to him, that an impression was made upon his mind, as well as on the House in general,
 [284
 Mr. Marryat  moved, that counsel be heard against the Bill on the part of the persons who had petitioned to that effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  intimated, that the object at which the hon. alderman aimed, was attainable in the committee; where the regulations could be either wholly opposed or modified.
 285]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  objected to the motion. It was known to the House, that a committee had been sitting upon this subject from April to July during the last session. Counsel were heard in that committee, and every argument which could be adduced was then laid before them on the part of the petitioners. After an investigation so general as that to which he alluded, it would be a a Waste of time, as well of money, for the parties to countenance a further renewal of topics which had grown familiar by their repetition to almost every member of the House.
 Mr. Marryat  repeated the importance of the subject, in justification of the motion he had made. In different private establishments on the Thames, three or four thousand shippers, and an equal number of other artificers, had been employed. At present there was not a single ship building in those places; nor was it likely there would be one, if this Bill passed. Under such circumstances, he trusted the indulgence of the House would allow the petitioners to be heard by their counsel at the bar.
 Sir C. Monk  trusted, that the question would still be open for general discussion after the second reading.
 Mr. Marryat  urged the number of the petitioners and the importance of their complaint, as sufficient grounds for their being heard by counsel.
 The Speaker  intimated that counsel could not be heard until the question of the second reading was disposed of; it would then be competent to introduce them if the House thought proper preparatory to the committal of the Act.
 Mr. Horner  said, it was clear from what had recently transpired, that they both were right as to the internal evidence which some of the letters bore of coming from the pen to which they were ascribed.
 Mr. Horner  said, the noble lord would do him the justice to acknowledge, that On the night when these documents were first brought forward, he had doubted their authenticity, without waiting for the statement that might be put forth from the other side of the water. It had particularly struck him, that it was highly improbable the Setter dated from Nangis should be found at Paris.
 Mr. Horner  said, with respect to the insinuation which had been thrown out by the noble lord, as to his readiness to credit the statements made on the other side of the water, he had only to assure him, that satisfied that his character was known to the House, he should treat it with the most perfect indifference.
 Mr. Horner  said, that much of the matter of the noble lord's speech was quite extraneous, as the question, whether the course which had been pursued with respect to Murat was or was not justified, was not the subject of this day's debate. The papers which the noble lord had brought before the House, it should appear, had not been in the possession of the French Government, or at least they had not known they were in possession of
 281]
 Mr. Horner  said, he had not stated that the fabrication of the documents in question had been charged on this country. Every one who read the French papers must see that it was against the Royal Government of France. On the statement made by the right hon. gentleman, that his noble colleague would be anxious to give the House every information in his power on the subject which he had brought forward, he felt disposed to concur with the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and to suffer his motion to be considered but as a notice for Mon-
 [278
 Mr. Horner  deprecated strongly any Attempt to interfere with the articles of the Union, unless very grave doubts indeed existed as to their construction. For the letter of those articles should, on all occasions, be treated as the governing principle of the Legislature.
 Mr. Horner  said, he had a motion to make, which he had wished to submit to the House in the presence of the noble lord (Castlereagh), but which he felt it necessary to bring forward now. After what had appeared in some of the foreign journals, the House must feel it was impossible for him not to call their attention to certain papers which had been read by the noble lord on a former night, which had produced a strong impression, not on his mind certainly, but on the House, Which papers were now declared to be forgeries and fabrications. It was impossible for any man in that House to doubt, that when the noble lord read the documents alluded to, he believed them to be genuine; but a charge had been made in the face of Europe—it might turn out that the charge would recoil on those by whom it was made—of such a nature, that he thought it impossible for that House not to feel itself called upon to ascertain the true character of the papers which had been communicated to them, as far as they had the means of doing so. In the absence of the noble lord, he would not describe the impression which the recent publication had made on his mind. Without going further into the subject he must observe, that there were two documents referred to in the French papers, which he thought, if at all in existence, must be in the office of the Foreign Department. One was a letter from the French minister, count Blacas, transmitting three letters to the Foreign minister of this country, and the other was the letter of the Duke of Wellington, said to be dated January the 4th, 1815, which contained a statement of his opinion on certain documents submitted to him relative to the conduct of Marshal Murat. He hoped the House would order the production of these two papers. If the letter of the Duke of Wellington were genuine, it could be produced with little delay, and the other document which he wished to see laid on the table, might also, he apprehended, be immediately forthcoming, as it must be in the possession of the noble lord. He then moved for the production, of a letter from count Blacas to lord Castlereagh, transmitting certain docu-
 277]
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know if the noble lord had not officially received a copy of the Duke of Wellington's letter at Vienna, and if he could not produce that copy? Could the noble lord state that none of the five genuine letters were among the documents on which that letter was founded?
 Mr. Tierney  thought it possible that some of the five documents, said to be undoubtedly genuine, were among those on which the first opinion of the Duke of Wellington was founded.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know if the noble lord had seen the documents which were submitted to him?
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  expressed his anxiety that counsel should be heard before the principle was acknowledged.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  suggested, that some regulations might be entered into which would obviate the grievances of which the petitioners complained.
 Mr. Whitbread , as he had understood from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that public business was expected, at this period of the session, to commence at a quarter past four, concluded from not seeing the noble lord (Castlereagh) in his place at that time (between five and six), that it was not likely they would see him there before Monday. He must, however, put a question respecting a paper purporting to be a proclamation issued by the Duke of Wellington, which he expected would be proved to be a forgery. A statement to this effect he had supposed would be made before the discussion on the expected Message took place. It was necessary that it should be disavowed; for though it was certainly destitute of all appearance of authenticity, it had caused a considerable sensation in the public mind. Feeling this, he now rose to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if the paper in question was a true proclamation, issued by the Duke of Wellington or not.
 Mr. Wallace  replied in the affirmative.
 Mr. Wallace  said, it would be competent for the House to enter into a full discussion upon the merits of the measure when it was about to be committed.
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  said, it was without example to call upon the House for a further hearing, after that which had already taken place. On the subject volumes of evidence had been transmitted to him, and he supposed other members were equally put in possession of its merits. It was idle to say, that any new light could be thrown upon the case.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  wished distinctly to
 [276
 Sir C. Monck  trusted, that the second reading did not identify those with the principle of the Bill, who sought to hear counsel against it at the bar.
 Sir James Mackintosh , if he understood what had just fallen from the noble lord, thought some of the five documents might have been among those which were laid before the Duke of Wellington. Was the noble lord prepared to say that he knew what those documents were? If he could say this, and that none of the five were among them, it certainly would be very important.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that he could not help thinking this Bill unnecessary, as the articles of Union made ample provision for the purpose alluded to; and he could not hesitate to pronounce it as extremely impolitic and unjust, if it were intended to interfere with those articles which ought to be held sacred with a view to preserve an harmonious connexion between the two countries. Nothing, indeed, was calculated to create more alarm, especially in Ireland, than to find those articles meddled with from time to time, as if they were mere statutable provisions, liable to be changed at the pleasure of the Legislature.
 275]
 Lord Castlereagh  appeared, at the bar of the House with a Message from his royal highness the Prince Regent, which being brought up, the Speaker proceeded to read it to the House as follows:
 GEORGE P. R. [296
 Lord Castlereagh  moved, that his Royal Highness's Message be taken into consideration tomorrow.
 Mr. Ponsonby  objected to the day on which it was proposed to consider the Message brought down by the noble lord. He observed, that no instance had ever come to his knowledge, in which Parliament was called on to express its opinion, with respect to Treaties concluded with foreign Powers, at so short a notice. It was most unusual, except in cases of an unimportant nature, to ask of the House to express an opinion on a message from the throne, the very day after it had been brought down. It certainly was the custom and usage of Parliament to take messages into their consideration the day after they were delivered, when they related to ordinary occurrences, on which, from time to time, the Crown was pleased to communicate information to the House; but he believed that no instance could be adduced, in which treaties were laid before the House, by the command of the Crown—in consequence of which treaties they would probably be called on to vote large sums of money—where Parliament was required, on the succeeding day, to express a decided opinion. In a case of such extreme importance, more than twenty-four hours should be given for consideration. He could see no reason for this extraordinary precipation, but probably the noble lord could explain it. He had investigated the proceedings formerly adopted in similar cases, but he could find no instance in which Parliament was required, at so short a notice, to express its opinion. Impressed with these sentiments, he hoped the noble lord would allow further time for the consideration of the documents to which the Message referred.
 Lord Castlereagh  contended, that it was entirely consonant to the practice of Parliament even on the most grave and important questions to vote an Address to a Message from the Crown the day subsequent to that Message being sent down. With respect to the subsidiary provision which the House would be called upon to make in consequence of the Treaties laid before it, that certainly would not come within the purview of the vote which it would be his duty to propose tomorrow. He should reserve that branch of the
 297]
 Mr. Ponsonby  replied, that the House was distinctly to be called upon for an opinion with respect to certain Treaties which were to be laid before them only twenty-four hours previous to such a vote, and he certainly considered that interval too brief. In the case of the Crown declaring war, for example, and concluding treaties with other Powers in concurrence with whom the war was to be carried on, a communication would be made to that House, and all that the House would be called upon to do, would be barely to thank the Crown for the communication, but not, he apprehended, to come to any opinion immediately upon the nature of the Treaties, or the policy or justice of the war. He could mention one very strong instance in point. At the time when an application was made to the House for money to assist Holland, six or seven days passed before the House returned any answer to that application. In fact, he did not believe that the noble lord could produce a single instance where the opinion of Parliament was given so hastily as on the succeeding day, upon communications of the kind now under consideration. The noble lord said, the House were substantially in possession of all the information contained in the papers which were ordered to be communicated; but that was not the case. Our Government had annexed a Declaration to the Treaty of the 25th of March, which was sent to Vienna for the approbation of the Sovereigns there, and he was ignorant, for one, how that Declaration was received. There was another point which he wished to mention. He had observed from what passed in another place, that the papers relative to the overture made by France to this country were to be laid before the House that day. Those papers had been sent by the noble lord to Vienna, for the purpose of receiving the sentiments of the Allies upon them; and what their
 [298
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the vote which he intended to propose might be one of simple thanks for the Message from the Crown, or it might be one of a different description; but he was decidedly of opinion, that it would be more convenient to argue it tomorrow, than to go into it by anticipation, by discussing a question which was not now before them. With respect to the information which the right hon. gentleman seemed to think necessary before the House could exercise a sound judgment upon the subject, he had received the commands of the Prince Regent to lay before the House all the papers that could be necessary. Among those papers would be found a dispatch, from lord, Clancarty, communicating the manner in which the overture from Buonarparté to this country was received at Vienna, also the overture itself, and the judgment pronounced, upon it by the Allied Sovereigns. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. gentleman and the House, when they had examined those papers, would be satisfied that every means had been afforded for enabling them to form a correct and decisive opinion.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he was disposed to give every information as to the course he intended to pursue, on the following day, which could be imparted, without drawing on, inconveniently and by anticipation, a discussion of the general question. He had no objection, therefore, to state, that the Address which he should propose would simply echo the sentiments of the Message, and give an assurance to his Royal Highness of the support of Parliament, in the measures which he might think it necessary to pursue, in concert with his Allies, and in virtue of the treaties concluded with them. But, in taking the sense of the House upon that Address, he did not mean to obtain from it any vote, pledging it to an approbation of the susidiary arrangements. The vote of tomorrow would be taken upon the broad principle embraced in the Message, that of opposing the pretensions of the common enemy, as hostile to the repose and security of Europe, without entering into any of the details comprehended in the subsidiary engagements, [The noble lord here sat down, when Mr. Whitbread reminded him that he had not replied to the other questions which he asked. Lord Castlereagh then continued.]—With respect to the Austrian ratification, it certainly had not been received, and of course was not yet exchanged; but the hon. member would see from the correspondence now laid upon the table, that the complete and unqualified assent of Austria had been given to all the stipulations of the Treaty, and the cause of its delay was merely ministerial, from certain formalities and ceremonies which were necessary before it could be expedited to
 [300
 Lord Castlereagh  said, the hon. member was under a complete misconception as to the transactions at Vienna. If any treaty had been signed by the plenipotentiaries there, previously to the Treaty of
 301]
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that with respect to the latter question of the right hon. gentleman, he would find an answer to it in the Papers about to be laid upon the table; and as to the others, he apprehended he had already given a more precise notice of his motion than was customary. Any further explanation of it would be, he conceived, not only unusual, but derogatory to the character and practice of Parliament. It could only tend to force on the question prematurely.
 Lord Castlereagh  returned no answer; and the question was accordingly put, and carried in the affirmative.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented to the House, by command of the Prince Regent, Copies of the Treaties between his Britannic Majesty, the Emperor of Russia, and the King of Prussia, signed at Vienna, 25th March 1815. The following is a Copy of the
 Lord Castlereagh  presented the following Papers to the House by command of the Prince Regent:
 Lord Castlereagh  also presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for the further consideration of the report of the New Stamp-duties.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that he had most distinctly stated, that it was not his intention to call upon the House for any, opinion on the Treaties submitted to it, but merely to a general assurance of their support in the war which was likely to ensue.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that a negociation had been entered into on this point, but that no specific arrangement had as yet been made.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, with respect to the branch of Stamp-duties to which the noble lord alluded, as well as some others, which he had not yet been able to investigate with sufficient attention, he did not mean to bring them forward on the present occasion. There were several other points connected with, the Stamp-duties, to which he intended to propose a number of verbal amendments. If the House generally wished the consideration of this subject to be postponed, he would accede to their feeling; since he was sure the intermediate time would be usefully employed in the collection of information from without doors.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  spoke in a low tone of voice, but we understood him to recommend an assimilation of the Stamp-duties in Scotland with those of England.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the report was correct, as the former salaries of those officers did not seem adequate.
 Mr. Horner  desired to know how the money to be derived from such a measure would be employed, and whether it was intended for the increase of the salaries of the law officers? He understood that the salary of the Lord Advocate of Scotland was lately raised to 3,000 l l
 Mr. Horner  was surprised that the right hon. gentleman should think of increasing the Stamp-duties on the law proceedings of Scotland, particularly as they were already so extremely heavy in that country.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that now they were told they were only to return an answer to the Message, setting aside both the subsidiary Treaties and the Treaty of the 25th of March. Would the noble lord be pleased to explain himself in one word—without any parenthesis? [A laugh!]
 Mr. Tierney  said, he was not endeavouring to force on a, discussion. He only wished to know upon what grounds the proceedings of tomorrow were to stand?
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that he understood the noble lord as intending to call upon the House to vote their approbation of the Treaties laid before them. If so, he must remark, that in the Treaty of the 25th of March there was a direct recognition of certain stipulations entered into and signed by the plenipotentiaries at Vienna. Now, how was it possible for the House to approve of a Treaty containing such a clause, without knowing to what it referred? If the noble lord would explain that circumstance in any way that should appear satisfactory to the House, he would be contented. There was another point also, upon which, perhaps, the noble lord would be candid enough to give some information; he meant, as to the amount of subsidy which it was intended to propose.
 Lord Lascelles  hoped the right hon. gentleman did not mean, without mature consideration, to persist in the proposed scale of Stamp-duties. Some of them, he thought, would rather injure than benefit the revenue. He conceived the additional duty on advertisements to be of that description.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  observed, that the duty on law poceedings in Scotland, would do away all actions for small debts. The expense would be so great, that no person would originate an action in the Court of Session, unless for sums of great magnitude.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said, that from the nature of the law proceedings in Scotland differing essentially from those in England, an assimilation of the Stamp-duties would be an extreme hardship to the former. He therefore entreated the Chancellor of the Exchequer to postpone the consideration of the question, and inform himself, by means of the law officers of the crown, on the true state of the case.
 Mr. Grenfell  inquired whether any, and what composition had been made with the Bank, for the privilege they enjoyed of issuing notes without any stamp whatever?
 Mr. Whitbread  said, his question did not point to any such information. With respect to formalities, in reference to the Treaty, or arrangement, or whatever it might be called, entered into by the plenipotentiaries at Vienna, he would just read the first article of the Treaty signed on the 25th of March:—"The high contracting parties solemnly engage to unite the resources of their respective states, for the purpose of maintaining entire the conditions of the Treaty of peace, concluded at Paris on the 30th of May, 1814, as also the stipulations determined upon and signed at the Congress of Vienna, with a view to complete the dispositions of that Treaty," &c. Would not any common person reading those words, think that they referred to some stipulations
 [302
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he supposed he might take it for granted that not the smallest doubt existed in the noble lord's mind as to the fact of the formal ratification of the Treaty by Austria, though it had not yet arrived—[Hear, hear! from lord Castlereagh]. He could not help remarking, however, how easily any little informalities were got over by the noble lord, when he was willing to communicate a document, and how insuperable they were if an informal instrument happened to be moved for by the opposite side of the House—[Hear, hear!]. He supposed there was as little doubt in the mind of the noble lord with respect to the other. Treaty concluded by the Allies, and which, as he before observed, was referred to in the first article of that of the 25th of March, though perhaps it had not yet been ratified. If, however, the noble lord, in the same spirit of conciliation, would consent to lay that unratified Treaty also before the House, or the substance of it at least, they would then be in possession of all the information which was necessary, as far as he was aware, to form a correct judgment; but if not, there would be this remarkable singularity in their proceedings; they would be called upon to approve a ratified Treaty, which commenced with giving its sanction to an unratified Treaty, and which unratified Treaty could not be exhibited either  in toto
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that as an act of courtesy it might have been expected from the noble lord, that he would have given some hint as to the nature of the vote he meant to propose to the House tomorrow; but the whole strain of the noble lord's observations were, as usual, ambiguous; nor could he infer from the Message, which was equally ambiguous, whether the country, at this moment, was to be considered as in a state of war, or in that condition of armed peace in which it had been for some time past. Now, with regard to the papers in the hands of the noble lord, which he represented as containing the fullest information that could be required upon all the points connected with this important question, he had been informed, only a few hours since, that the noble lord was not in possession of the ratification of the Treaty by all the Allied Powers. Probably in the interval between his receiving that information, and the moment at which he was speaking, it might have arrived. He alluded to the ratification by Austria. If it
 299]
 Sir M. W. Ridley  thought the additional duty on advertisements would have an effect exactly contrary to what the right hon. gentleman seemed to expect.
 Sir Romilly  declared, that the proposed increase would operate as a total denial of justice to the inhabitants of Scotland, where law proceedings were already so extremely expensive, and where, in particular, it should least be imposed. The effect would be to render litigation an instrument of vengeance in the hands of the rich to oppress the poor, as none but the opulent could support the weight of law-suits.
 Sir J. Newport  deprecated such a determination, which was not justified by the peculiar circumstances of the two countries.
 Lord Castlereagh  conceived that the House were not to judge whether the
 [386
 Lord Castlereagh  had only meant to say, that the right hon. baronet might have been placed in a situation in which he would have been able conscientiously to act as the earl of Buckinghamshire had done with respect to lord Melville.
 Mr. Marryat  observed, that it was highly honourable to the late lord Melville, that the subject had been taken up by the Proprietors, over whom it was not likely that any influence could be exerted, instead of the Court of Directors, who might have been open to the suspicion of an improper interference. He conceived the Proprietors, in coming to the vote they had done, at once spoke the high sense they entertained of the services of the late lord Melville, and paid a proper tribute to the virtues of his son, who had undertaken voluntarily to discharge his father's debts. He should oppose the motion.
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, that as the present question related to the conduct of a noble earl in the discharge of his public duty he felt himself bound to express an opinion on it. He could not think that the
 [388 l. 389] [390
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  supported the motion, on the ground of the mischievous tendency of the recommendation. In his opinion, the letter bore every mark of publicity that was necessary. It originated from a public office, was written on a public subject, and was attended with all the consequences and influence of a public communication. Regarding it as such, he must consider it the act of a minister, and censure it as an improper exercise of ministerial discretion. It was said, that the noble earl at the head of the Board merely gave his advice; but really the advice of such a personage to the court of proprietors, was like what they had heard of the advice of the Company to an Indian power, which would hardly be disobeyed. It was said, that lord Melville brought in the Act establishing the Board of Control, and therefore he must have understood it: but this remark was peculiarly unhappy, for it would be recollected that the noble lord did bring in another bill, which either he or the House of Commons did not understand aright.
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that the concluding illustration of the right hon. gentleman was singularly unhappy. In the case he had mentioned, the fear of personal danger operated on the traveller; but, from the unloaded state of the arras made use of by the Board of Control, no apprehension whatever could be entertained by the Court of Proprietors. The right hon. gentleman had asked, why some step had not been taken for the remuneration of lord Melville during his life? The fact was, the Company had granted him a pension, payable as long as their late charter existed; and the present was a continuation of that grant, arising from the embarrassed state in which lord Melville left his affairs. The right hon. gentleman then defended the propriety of the grant, which, he argued, was no more liable to objection than that which was conferred on the present lord Cornwallis, for the services performed by his father; and concluded by expressing his hostility to the motion.
 Mr. Howorth  observed, that the letter was considered not as originating a grant of money, but as merely recommendatory, and that on a very particular reason!— the debts of the late lord Melville having fallen on the present. But how did the noble lord who wrote that letter know of the private affairs of lord Melville? Was he left executor of the will? was he a trustee under it, that he should thus stigmatise the dead, and pauperize the living? He remarked on the depressed state of the India Company's finances, of which he drew a very gloomy picture. At the time of their coming to the House for assistance, their paper was in a very depreciated state in Bengal, and they were obliged to have recourse to a very extraordinary mode of raising the loan, holding the Treasury open for twelve months, to receive money from every quarter. Surely, when the pecuniary concerns of the Company were so embarrassed, the President of the Board of Control had not paid a due regard to their interests, when he recommended such a grant. It was true, a majority of the proprietors expressed themselves in favour of this grant!—but it was most extraordinary, that the three worthy aldermen who had voted for it, and who had made themselves so conspicuous on that occasion, were now present to state their reasons for the course they had adopted.
 Mr. Wallace  entered into a short statement, to prove that the pecuniary affairs of the Company were not so deplorable as the last speaker had described them to be.
 Mr. Wallace  said, he gave the noble lord full credit for the motives of public duty which had induced him to bring the present subject under the consideration of the House, and he trusted that he would do him the same justice in believing that, taking a totally different view of the whole question, he felt it with equal sincerity a duty to resist it; that he did so because he did not think the character be had given of the letter of the president of the Board of Control was fairly attribuable to it, or that by writing it that noble person had done what was either inconsistent with his duty, with the Act of Parliament, or with the acknowledged rights of the East India Company; that he still entertained the same opinion of the letter in question he had repeatedly given, that it was in its nature and character a private one; but supposing it to be otherwise, and to have possessed any circumstance which the law required in the official communication between the Board of Control and the East India Company, he had yet to learn, that it constituted a violation either of the letter or spirit of the Act of Parliament. 377] [378 379] [380 381] prima facie [382 l. 383] [384
 Mr. Whitshed Keene  observed how little our empire in India depended on the physical strength of this country, independent of the more powerful force of moral agency. This strength, the very foundation of our authority, was owing in a great measure to the wise and energetic measures pursued by the late lord Melville, whom he eulogized as the greatest benefactor of India. Considering him in such a light, be had voted originally, as a proprietor, for the grant, and he should now oppose every motion that tended to question its general policy.
 Sir J. Newport  understood the speech of the noble lord to convey an insinuation, that he, when in office, might have recommended a grant to some of his friends. If he meant any thing of this sort, he had better speak out.
 Sir J. Newport.  !—Never to give money to my colleagues.
 Sir John Newport  contended, that the letter of the President of the Board of Control stated as the ground of the grant which he recommended, that the property of the late lord Melville was inadequate to his debts, and that the present lord Melville had made himself responsible for them. The question, therefore, was a very different one from that of the merits or demerits of the late lord Melville. It was, whether a president of a board appointed by Parliament to control any undue and improper application of money ought to advise a grant of money to one of his own colleagues, for the sake of relieving him from his father's debts, for which he had made himself responsible. The precedents quoted by the right hon. gentleman from the records of the Board of Control, were not applicable to the present case!—they were grants to old servants or their widows for military services. But could he produce a single instance of one Cabinet minister recommending a grant to another Cabinet minister from these records? What danger could there be in granting public money for naval and military services? It was impossible, however, not to see the danger of making such grants for services rendered by ministers either in or out of parliament. It was contended by the right hon. gentleman, that it could be shown from the Act of Parliament, that it was competent to the president of the Board of Control to make such a recommendation. But the right hon. gentleman ought to have done more!—he ought to have not only shown that it was legal, but that it was proper. The services of the late lord Melville had been rendered to the public as a public servant, and not as a servant of the East India Company; and if it was thought that those services had not been sufficiently rewarded, the remuneration ought to have been granted by the House, at the recommendation of
 385]
 Lord Milton , on rising to bring forward a motion on this subject, with the particulars of which the House, he said, were well acquainted, disclaimed all motives for interference but those of his public duty. He had no feelings of an adverse nature towards the deceased nobleman or any of his relatives or friends, but on public grounds only he deemed it necessary to take up the subject. The history of the grant might be traced to the letter of the earl of Buckinghamshire to the Court of Directors, of the date of
 [372 * "India Board, January "Sir; Understanding from the conversation I had with you and the deputy chairman, that the Court of Directors have not yet come to any determination respecting the continuance of the pensions granted to lord Wellesley, lord Melville, and myself, I consider it my duty to state, as distinctly as I can, my sentiments upon the subject. "With reference to the grant to lord Wellesley, I should ill discharge the functions of the office I have the honour to hold, if I did not convey to you my decided opinion, that no man can read the Records of the East India Company during the period that lord Wellesley filled the situation of Governor-general of India, without being impressed with the deepest sense of his eminent services; and whatever differences of opinion might have occasionally arisen between him and the Court of Directors upon particular points, the exertions he made, the talents he displayed, and the benefits he rendered, were of a nature to entitle him to a signal and substantial reward; and that the continuance of his pension would not only be an act of liberal and wise policy, but of strict justice on the part of the East India Company. "The pension granted to the executors of the late lord Melville is connected with circumstances which it may be a little difficult to discuss; but which, in order to make myself clearly understood, I cannot entirely overlook. "Upon an examination into the state of the late lord Melville's affairs at his death, it was found that his property was inadequate to the payment of his debts by a very large sum, for which the present lord Melville has made himself responsible. "Into this voluntary engagement he was induced to enter, at great personal inconvenience to himself and family, his property being settled, from a sense of 373] l. 
what was due, particularly to the high stations his father had held in public life; and to avoid the discredit that would attach upon his memory, had his debts remained unsatisfied. "Under an impression that the extension of the grant to the late lord Melville to his executors might have been made amongst other considerations, in the contemplation of his debts, and the inadequate means his property afforded of paying them, I venture to state these circumstances to you, and to submit for your consideration (the sum of 20,000 l. "If the estimation in which I hold the late lord Melville's services to the East India Company be ill founded, the proposition will have little weight with your Court; but if I justly appreciate them, I am confident that the suggestion I have made will not fail to receive that attention to which it appears entitled. "With respect to the pension granted to myself, I should observe, that upon my appointment to the office of president of the Board of Control, I intimated my intention to forego the receipt of the pension during the period of my continuance in that office; and I certainly was deter [374 mined, at all events, to persevere in that intention. "At the same time I must candidly acknowledge, that adverting to the terms upon which the charter was renewed, it did not occur to me that any question was likely to have arisen upon the subject of the existing pensions: as, however, it has arisen, I must request that the business, as far as my pension is concerned, may not be agitated at present. "In the exercise of my official duties, I ought not, in the opinion of any man, to be liable to the imputation of acting under feelings of personal disappointment, or open to the charge of disregarding an obligation conferred. "If the Court should be disposed, let them take up the subject whenever I leave the office of president of the Board of Control; they will then, as at present, have their own records to refer to for the grounds upon which the pension was originally granted, and they will enter upon the consideration of it under circumstances wholly free from the objection that has presented itself to my mind; and I would add, on that account, far mare satisfactory to my own feelings. I have the honour to be, Sir, &c. (Signed Robert Thornton, esq. &c. &c. &c. 375] l. l. [376
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he held in his hand a Petition from the inhabitants of the city of Westminster, which had been agreed upon the other day at a very numerous meeting held for the purpose. The Petition, though concise, stated some very considerable grievances felt by the country; but it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House, and he should therefore move that it be brought up and read at the table.
 Sir F. Burdett.  That peace may be preserved is the main prayer of it, but it also prays for a reform in the Commons House of Parliament.
 Sir F. Burdett  next moved, "That this Petition do lie on the table."
 Lord Castlereagh  moved, that the first paragraph of the Petition be read again.
 Lord Castlereagh  said there was no person in that House who felt more deeply than he did the importance of that undoubted privilege which the people of these realms possessed, of petitioning the Legislature against any grievances which they sustained; nor was there any one who would more anxiously guard the rightful and legitimate exercise of that
 393]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that in rising to call the attention of the House to the gracious Message of his Royal Highness
 [396 397] [398 399] [400 401] [402 403] [404 405] dans le bas Translation of a Letter from the Duke of Bassano to the Duke of Vicenza. In the cypher of the Emperor with his Ministers. "March "Sir,—Your excellency will have received, or will doubtless in the course of to-day receive the dispatch from Rheims, of which M. Frochot was the bearer, and which was accompanied by a letter from the Emperor. "The Emperor desires that you would avoid explaining yourself clearly upon every thing which may relate to delivering up the fortresses of Antwerp, Mayence, and Alexandria, if you should be obliged to consent to those cessions; his Majesty intending, even though he should have ratified the Treaty, to be guided by the military situation of affairs:—wait till the last moment. The bad faith of the Allies in respect to the capitulations of Dresden, Dantzic, and Gorcum, authorizes us to endeavour not to be duped. Refer, therefore, these questions to a military arrangement, as was done at Presburg, Vienna, and Tilsit. His Majesty desires that you would not lose sight of the disposition which he will feel not to deliver up those three keys of France, if military events, on which he is willing still to rely, should permit him not to do so, even if he should have signed the cession of all these provinces. In a word, his Majesty wishes to be able, after the Treaty, to be guided by existing circumstances, to the last moment. He orders you to burn this letter as soon as you have read it." [406 407] [408 409] [410 411] [412 413] "To make our acknowledgments to his Royal Highness, for having directed copies of the Treaties which have been concluded to be laid before us; and to assure his Royal Highness, that he may confidently rely on the cordial support of this House in all measures which it may be necessary for his Royal Highness to adopt, in conjunction with his Majesty's Allies, against the common enemy at this important crisis."
 Lord Castlereagh  considered the terms of the Petition as utterly incompatible with a proper respect to the House; and as illustrative of this opinion, he begged to refer the noble lord to these passages:—"That evil counsellors, alert in the adoption of unjust means to an unjust end, have already, by a corrupt influence, obtained an unqualified re-enactment of the Property-tax.—That such evil counsellors, and their abettors, not only act on the iniquitous principle of taxation without representation, but they in preference adopt, as an instrument of terror in upholding their unconstitutional power, that detested inquisitorial system, in reprobation of which the indignation of our much-injured country was to your honourable House so lately made known." If these allegations were true, continued the noble lord, and such as the House was willing to receive, it would follow that the particular tax in question, and indeed all taxes were imposed by an incompetent authority. He apprehended the House,
 [394
 Sir F. Burdett  observed, that he wished the noble lord could have proved that the people of England were fairly represented, that the majorities in that House were not corruptly obtained, and that the opinion entertained out of doors was not a correct one. The opinion of the people, from the manner in which petitions were received in that House, was, that they might as well be thrown under the table, as laid upon it. He was not sorry, however, that the noble lord had made his remarks upon the petition; he was not sorry that he had drawn the attention of the House to it; nor should he be sorry to appeal from the judgment of that House to the opinion of the nation at large, as to the truth of its averments. It would be his duty at some future time to bring the question of parliamentary reform under the notice of the House; but be would not do it until the period arrived when he should be supported out of doors in the undertaking, in such a way as would induce the House to hear of its corruptions; to hear how seats were obtained in it, and to be told, that they were in fact any thing but the representatives of the people of England. In the year 1793 they did not refuse to receive a petition which completely dissected the House; which told who and what noble lords had the presentation of seats in it; to that petition was annexed a list, which proved that 17 individuals returned 74 members, and that one way or another, about 150 returned absolutely a majority of what was improperly called the House of Commons. With regard to petitions, however, he did not know of any right which the House could justly exercise as to receiving or rejecting them. Petitioners to that House were not bound to approach them cap in hand, on bended knees and with a beggar's prayer; their petitions were in the nature of a demand. He had no doubt, from the experience which he had had of the influence possessed over the House by any one who happened to sit on the bench where the noble lord sat, that if the noble lord requested them to refuse the Petition they would do so but he really saw no rea-
 395]
 Mr. Vezey Fitzgerald  said, he presumed the hon. baronet had presented the Petition merely for the sake of delivering such a speech as they had just heard; for he had professed an utter indifference whether the House received it or not. The hon. baronet professed to see nothing in the language of the Petition which was at all disrespectful to the House; he (Mr. Fitzgerald) was not surprised to hear him say so, because it was perfectly consistent with the new constitutional principles which he had avowed, that the petitions of the people were to be considered as demands, and not as requests made to the Legislature. With regard to the Petition of 1793 he did not pretend to know what might be the opinion of Parliament respecting it at the time; but the very statement of the hon. baronet, that it was received, proved that no petition would be rejected, whatever might be its sentiments as to the necessity of reform, provided it was couched in such language as was due to the character and dignity of the House. He thought the two passages which had been read from the Petition by his noble friend, were of a character which would amply justify the House in refusing to receive it, unless they were prepared to admit that they had been induced, by the corrupt influence of corrupt ministers, to re-enact the Property-tax.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he had hoped it would have fallen to an abler hand to answer the elegant appeal which had been made to the passions of the House,—an appeal which contained, together with the most brilliant antitheses and the most various talent, the most exaggerated statements, not inferior to those which the right hon. gentleman had pointed out in the state papers of the French ruler. He nevertheless, should venture to make a few observations on the justice and on the expediency of entering upon a war for the re-establishment in France of a family twice proscribed. It was the same to say to France, you shall have this government, as to say, you shall not have that other government; because the threat implied a power to conquer the country in question, and to whatever end it was applied, it alike showed a power to conquer the nation against whom it was directed. The election of Buonaparté had been made not only by a great majority of the people, but by a greater majority than had ever elected any other monarch; for the duke of Angouleme had stated, that the few troops which he had with him remained faithful to the Bourbons, till seduced by the persuasions or menaces of the population of the country. When Buonaparté first landed in France he was supported by a very small number of troops, much smaller than that by which king William was supported when he landed in this country. When we recollected the principles on which our ancestors proceeded, the indignation which was felt by them at that principle which was now called the support of legitimate sovereigns, and how successfully they had contended against it; we were not accustomed to survey them with regret, but with exultation. Our ancestors, indeed, went greater lengths than he could approve of—they set a price on the head of the person who was, according to the laws of hereditary succession, the legitimate monarch. They placed him in the situation in which the Declaration of Vienna placed Buonaparté, and authorized the assassin to aim the dagger against him. As to the States who were now armed
 431] [432 433]
 Mr. Law  imagined that the hon. baronet
 [434
 Mr. Wynn  defended the general right of interfering with the internal government of another, and supported the principle by adducing arguments from the history of the various alliances in Europe formed for that express purpose. He said he would not rely on any improvement in the disposition of Buonaparté, nor repose on any arguments deduced from the age of Buonaparté. His age was forty-six—the same as the duke of Wellington; and surely no one could say that the efficiency of either was impaired by it. He remarked on the military preparations made by Buonaparté when he proposed his new constitution at the Champ de Mai, and contrasted it with the custom in England, where the military force were removed during every popular discussion. It was said that Buonaparté lost his empire because he had made one false move; the fact was, he was so closely pressed on all sides, that he had no good move left, and was, therefore, compelled to make a false one. But that necessity was evidently occasioned by the various judicious movements that had been previously made. That Buonaparté was supported principally by the soldiery, was very clear. What did he say in his different proclamations? why, he promised that every thing should be done for the honour and the advantage of the military. The main sin alleged against the Government of the Bourbons was, that under it the interest of the soldiery was not provided, for; and it was no wonder that they should adhere to that ruler who pledged himself to minister to their vanity and their ambition. In no instance did the people appear to hail the return of Buonaparté with lively satisfaction. Throughout his progress they seemed to be buried in apathy. The question was, whether the House would now oppose this individual,—who had so long disturbed Europe with his machina-
 435]
 Mr. Ponsonby  said, he certainly never rose under the operation of such painful emotions on any former question, as he felt on the present occasion; because, in voting as he should do, he was compelled to differ from those, and particularly from a right hon. friend (Mr. Grattan) who had recently spoken, with whom he had been in the habit of acting during the whole course of a long political life. It was not in his power, after the most careful and exact consideration of this important subject, to bring his mind to adopt that course of policy, which his Majesty's ministers recommended to the House, and which his right hon. friend had so powerfully and so eloquently supported. If ministers had depended entirely on themselves for the display and defence of their own measures, it would not have been very difficult to encounter them: but he felt it almost impossible to combat the eloquence of his right hon. friend, and to oppose that voice which had hitherto been always exerted in proclaiming sentiments similar to his own. The question before the House now was, whether they would sanction, by their vote, the conduct of those ministers who had signed the Treaty of Vienna—whether the House would declare an approbation of all the articles of that Treaty? for, it was in vain to argue, that the Address now proposed did not bind them to maintain all the stipulations and engagements entered into at the Congress of Vienna—to carry on war against France, for the purpose of destroying the Government of Buonaparté, and of placing the Bourbons on the throne—and never to lay down oar arras till those objects were accomplished. The noble lord had that night told the House, that for a conside-
 [436 437] [438 439] [440 441]
 Mr. Plunkett  thought that the House was now, for the first time, called upon
 [442 443] [444 445]
 The Speaker.  What is the prayer of the Petition?
 Lord George Cavendish  said, he could not help thinking, from the speech of the noble lord, that his Majesty's Government had now changed their object, and that their sole intention was to overturn the present Ruler of France, for the sake of replacing the Bourbons on the throne. They had only to look at the Treaty of the 25th of March, which established a mutuality of interests between the contracting parties, to be convinced that their intention was the restoration of that family. No man felt more for fallen greatness than he did; but every person must see, whether from the incapacity of the Bourbons, or from an indisposition on the part of the people of France to receive them as Sovereigns, there was not the smallest chance of their restoration to power. He was confident if the House looked to the spirit of the people of that country—their jealousy of all external interference—they would be convinced that there was no chance of a settled government there, but what arose from the external and visible circumstances of the country. Our experience of the past ought to be a lesson to us for the future. After a struggle, in which the best blood of the country had been shed—in which our finances had been so much impaired—and more especially when the new contest was not only of the most arduous description, but one which, if we failed, would entail disgrace on the country, we ought not to plunge ourselves in war without the most urgent necessity—such a necessity as had not yet been made out satisfactorily to the House. The noble lord concluded with moving the following Amendment to the Address: 415]
 Mr. Tierney  thought it a most unwise
 [446
 Mr. Grattan  rose and said:—I sincerely sympathize with the hon. gentleman who spoke last, in his anxiety on this important question; and my solicitude is in
 419] [420 421] [422 423] [424 425] [426 427] [428 429] [430
 Mr. John Smith  seconded the amendment. He said he was averse from war, as a friend to humanity in the first place; and that to this objection were superadded the very destructive consequences which it would be in all likelihood the means of bringing on this country. He was aware that it was urged on the side of the promoters of the present treaties, that Buonaparté was merely upheld by the army; that the army was a banditti, a set of robbers and plunderers; and therefore there could be no security for peace: but this argument operated against those who urged it; for if Buonaparte's army were such plunderers as were thus described, if they had this insatiable desire for war, peace was the only, or at least the surest method by which it was to be allayed. Those bad principles of the French army
 [416 417] l. [418
 Lord Milton  explained.—He had referred only to that part of the Petition which had been first read; and could not say whether it might not contain other parts which even he might think objectionable.
 Lord Milton  said, that the part of the Petition which the noble lord had read was not the same as he had before desired to be read by the clerk, and it was to the latter that his observations applied.
 Lord Milton  said, he had never heard any person get up in that House to oppose the reception of a petition, who did not begin by stating that he was most anxious to preserve the right of petitioning free from violation. Such had been the conduct of the noble lord; but he should be glad if the noble lord would inform the House what particular part of the paragraph it was which would justify them, in his opinion, in refusing the present Petition. For himself, he did not observe any insulting words as applicable to the House of Commons collectively; and they certainly would not be justified in rejecting it merely because it happened to contain expressions offensive to persons in other capacities than as members of that House.
 Lord Milton  declared, that he went to a vote on this question with trembling and pain, and that he felt compelled to state the reasons which induced him to dissent from his noble friend, and to vote for the Address. These were, that Buonaparté had been guilty of a breach of faith, that the French nation were, what was called in law, accessaries after the fact, and that
 447]
 Mr. Peel  said, he should feel it his duty to oppose the second reading of this Bill, and he trusted he should be able to satisfy the House of the propriety of refusing to absent to the motion of the right hon. baronet. The treasure then before the House purported to be a bill to regulate the fees and emoluments of certain law offices in Ireland; and the reason stated by the right hon. baronet for introducing it was, that the amount of those fees and emoluments was greater than the nature of the situations called for, and that the legislature had already interfered in cases of a similar kind. In proof of this assertion, the right hon. baronet referred to two bills, which had passed that House, the one introduced in 1810, the other in 1812. On these two bills the right hon. baronet founded the propriety of bringing in the measure then before the House; and he begged to state the nature of those bills. The first was brought forward fey the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Wellesley Pole) who preceded him in the office of chief Secretary for Ireland; and the right hon. baronet had given to his measure the same title as that given to the Bill of his right hon. Friend, but its provisions were entirely different. The Bill of 1810 went merely to regulate the emoluments of offices; but that of the light hon. baronet not only went to regulate fees, but to alter the tenure on which the offices specified were held, and to prevent the Crown from granting them on the same principle by which those grants were at present regulated. It went directly to provide, that the duties of those offices should no longer be performed by deputy; but that they should in future be Executed by the parties themselves. Now the Bill of his right hon. friend (Mr. W. Pole) provided for the appointment of deputies, who should return to the Treasury, the amount of fees taken by their principals. The second Bill was introduced by an hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Bankes). That Bill was for the purpose of abolishing sinecure offices, and offices performed by deputy; and the title
 [450
 Mr. Peel  said, that after the explanation given on the subject of the office of Clerk of the Pleas, and after the private communication made to the right hon. baronet on the subject, he was astonished that it should again be noticed. As to the office of Clerk of the Hanaper, it became vacant by the death of the earl of Westmeath. It could not be reckoned amongst the offices of great emolument, as it only produced about 1,600 l
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  observed, that he never knew an instance of the disposal of any office by the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, that was not founded on the most pure, upright, and disinterested principles. He thought it was not too much for his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) to ask the right hon. baronet to abstain from such a sweeping measure as the present, until the report of the commission, appointed at his own desire, was laid on the table of the House. He and his right hon. friend would not oppose a bill, similar to that introduced in 1810, for regulating those law offices—diminishing such emoluments as might, from the circumstance of the times, have grown too great, and giving to the Crown such compensation as, from to the nature of the alteration, it had a right to demand: but he never would consent to a bill, taking from the Grown altogether the right to appoint to the offices specified, without, in return, granting such a compensation as would enable the Sovereign to reward the exertions of public servants. He should therefore move as an amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time this day six months."
 Mr. Ponsonby  considered the office of the Clerk of the Crown and Hanaper as essentially necessary to the administration of justice. The person who discharged that office, ought, he thought, to be well rewarded, and he should feel he was deficient in duty if he did not bear his testimony to the great talent and ability of the gentleman who at present held that appointment. There were appointments in many of the law courts, which be considered extremely objectionable. He should, therefore, give his support to a measure which had for its object the abolition of those which were unnecessary, and the regulation of those which were really useful. With a View of deciding upon the real merits of the Bill, he thought it ought to be permitted to go into a committee, where its faults or its advantages could be properly discussed.
 Lord Castlereagh  moved that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of Supply for the purpose of taking into consideration so much of the Message of his royal highness the Prince Regent as related to the subsidiary engagements entered into with our Allies.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that though it was no doubt competent to the hon. gentleman to object to the Speaker leaving the chair, he wished to suggest that it would be better perhaps to debate the principle in the committee, as he had some information to communicate to the House respecting the mode of executing the Treaty, which the hon. gentleman himself would perhaps wish to be in possession of.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he felt an anxious desire to pat Parliament in possession, so
 455] [456
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that Russia had, indeed, no possessions in the Low Countries; but the part of her debt in Holland, which was borne by Great Britain and the King of the Netherlands, was contingent on the preservation of the Low. Countries to, the House of Orange, as he had already stated. He would now proceed to the other points, namely, the operation of the arrangements entered into with the Allies. By treaty, the armies of the Allied Sovereigns were, to amount to 150,000. But
 457] [458 459] 
 
 Austria 300,000 
 Russia 225,000 
 Prussia 236,000 
 States of Germany 150,000 
 Great Britain 50,000 
 Holland 50,000 
 1,011,000; l l s l l l s [460 l l l 461] [462
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he wished now to avoid entering into particulars with regard to the minor Powers.
 Lord Castlereagh  answered, that Spain had signified her acquiescence in the Treaty; but to what extent she would engage in the war, he was not able to state.
 Lord Castlereagh  was not able to state the arrangements with all the minor Powers who would, during the contest, come into the field.
 Lord Castlereagh  was not empowered to give any specific answer, by stating what share they would take in the general disposition. Whether Sweden or Portugal would be subsidized at all, he was not able to state.
 Lord Castlereagh  felt every disposition to satisfy the curiosity of the right hon. member, but he declined pledging Government to any principle of policy that might hereafter be found injurious.
 Lord Castlereagh  added, that he had received the most unqualified assurances from them, and they had signed the Declaration of the 13th of March. He was not prepared to state what force Sweden would put in motion; he apprehended she could not now receive from us the aid she had obtained in the last war, and without it he doubted whether she could provide a large contingent. If the hon. member meant to intimate that there was any doubt of the part Sweden would adopt, his lordship begged to state that he had no more hesitation as to the line of politics she would pursue than he had with regard to Austria, or any of the other Powers.
 Mr. Baring  said, he was at a loss to know how the hon. gentleman who spoke last, reconciled his speech of that evening with his vote the night before. The question had been, whether they should interfere to put down a military system in France; but when a vote had been given in favour of an attack on France, it was the duty of the House to provide the means of carrying on that attack in the most efficient manner. He was not over-sanguine in his hopes, but he thought there was a fair prospect of success. It was, however, to be recollected that, half a century ago, Frederick of Prussia, by the superior power of his mind, supported himself against all the great nations of Europe, although there was nothing of that enthusiasm in his people which constituted the great strength of the French at this moment. He was convinced, however, that it was impossible to remain at peace; and he therefore thought it better to attack France unprepared, while our alliance was firm, than to wait till France was prepared, and our alliance was dissolved. Still less should he hesitate on the second question, of granting a subsidy to the other Powers of Europe. Setting aside the subsidy which we might grant, we should be a very inconsiderable state in the alliance. The whole of the force we had in the field was 50,000 men, which was not greater than that of Bavaria. It was necessary to contribute a fair share, which we could best do in money. A sum of five millions, too, would be of immense service to put the large armies of the continent, in motion; for though the Allied Powers were immensely strong within their frontiers, the state of their finances, and the paper currency of several of those states, rendered it a matter of great difficulty to move even small armies beyond their frontier. One circumstance not so satisfactory was, that the whole of the subsidy was paid by this country, and
 467]
 Mr. Bennet  condemned the policy of granting subsidies to continental nations to enter into wars foreign to their interests—and this, too, at a time when the situation of our finances was such, that if the war continued long, the stock-holders could not receive their dividends. It was the duty of the Chancellor of the Exquer, before the House was called on to vote such enormous subsidies, to show what the state of our finances really was, and what would be the consequence of a long contest. He admitted, that if by a short effort those paragons of justice and policy, which were to transfer the theatre of their operations from Vienna to Paris, succeeded in speedily re-instating the Bourbons, the finances of the country might still be supported; but it was not by a peace establishment of 19 millions a year that they could in that event be preserved. The object of the war was to
 [468
 Mr. Douglas  urged the necessity of going to war with Buonaparté. When it was said, that he had been reformed by misfortune, and that he might be restrained by the circumstances of the present times, he wished that the House would consider his conduct at the moment of his landing in France. Then he stood naked and undisguised, and avowed in his proclamations views that he had since thought politic to conceal. After going into the general question at pretty considerable length, he concluded by saying, that, in his opinion, the tranquillity of Europe could only be settled by the extermination of the military despotism now existing in France. He concluded by saying that he should certainly vote for the motion.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that Holland had only received arms and stores, but no money.
 Mr. C. Grant  junr. denied that the restoration of the Bourbons was the object of the war, and asserted, that that principle was totally contradicted in every Treaty before the House. He begged he hon. gentleman, who had dwelt so much upon the twenty-six millions of subsidy granted to foreign Powers during the last war, to recollect also the triumphant effect to which that subsidy led; and, recollecting that effect, he trusted the committee would not hesitate to grant a subsidy, which promised to lead to a result still more triumphant and decisive. The hon. gentleman sat down amidst a loud cry of 'Question, question!'
 The Speaker  intimated to the right hon. baronet, that on days when notice was given of votes in the committee of supply, it was customary to discuss them first.
 Mr. Tierney  spoke in favour of the Bill.
 Mr. Tierney  requested to be informed whether any great addition was likely to be made to the disposable sum of two and a half millions, by subsidies to minor Powers?
 Mr. Tierney  thought that, in point of candour, the noble lord was called upon to give the House some information respecting all the subsidies for which Parliament would be called upon to provide. He had not stated whether any, and what sums Sweden or Portugal were to obtain. At least he could enable the House to form a wide guess at the amount.
 Mr. Tierney  inquired whether any part of the disposable sum of two millions and a half was to be given to Portugal, and, if so, for what purpose?
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know what part Spain was to take?
 Mr. Tierney  asked for some information respecting Denmark.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to ask the noble lord, what possessions Russia had in the Low Countries to give her such an interest in their safety?
 Mr. Bankes  expressed his willingness to give way.
 Mr. Bankes  rose to oppose the motion, but
 Mr. Bankes,  in explanation, said, that although he thought the war necessary yet considering the situation of our finances, he thought that all the confederated Powers should make what exertions they could from their own resources.
 Mr. Bankes  continued. He said he was decidedly hostile to any exertions or sacrifices on the part of this country, that
 [464 465] [466
 Mr. Bankes  admitted that we had a just ground of war, but he doubted the expediency of insisting upon it in the mode recommended. As the cause was common, and all the Powers had the same interest in its success, in his opinion all ought to be upon a perfect equality; and although he concurred in the Address of yesterday, it did not necessarily, as the noble lord had observed, pledge his opinion as to the propriety of voting the subsidies now demanded. His chief objection was, that though our Allies were to be equally benefited, the principal burthen fell upon England only, and the system of, subsidy of late years had been carried to an extent severely felt by the nation. It appeared by documents upon the table, that since the year 1793, Great Britain had expended in subsidies to foreign states 46 millions, not including many other sums advanced under other names. Of these 46 millions 26,600,000 l
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  could not avoid expressing his surprise at the comparison which the right hon. baronet—a Whig—had made between the landing of William 3 in this country, and the landing of Buonaparté in France—two cases the most dissimilar that could be imagined. William 3 was invited to the throne by the people of England. No treaty existed between him and Louis 14, similar to that which Buonaparté had entered into with the Allies—no treaty subsisted between him and the inhabitants of England, like that which, by implication, Buonaparté had contracted with the people of France. In conclusion, the hon. gentleman stated his determination to vote for the subsidies, without which no efficient exertion, could be made against the common enemy.
 Mr. Peter Moore  did not doubt that we were able to pay the subsidies; but he thought, before the committee agreed to the vote, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to stand forward, and state explicitly the situation of the finances of the country. In the name of his constituents, he protested against this war, which would cover the national character with disgrace, and plunge them and their families in poverty and ruin.
 Mr. Whitbread  understood the noble lord to have stated distinctly that Sweden and Portugal were acceding parties to the Treaty: he wished to know in what proportion they were to furnish a contingent, so as to unite the whole of Europe, in the words of the noble lord, against half of France. Was Denmark also an acceding party to the Treaty?
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that although he had intended to offer some observations to the House yesterday, yet he should not now follow the example which the hon. gentleman had set him, of repeatiug the speech that he intended to have spoken the day before. The question now before the House was for granting a sum in the way of subsidy, for the purpose of carrying on the war, into which ministers appeared determined to rush. He was surprised that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bankes) who voted for the war, should now vote against the subsidies necessary for carrying
 469] [470 471]
 Mr. William Smith  was of opinion, that if the hopes of an efficient co-operation against France depended on our readiness to pay the stipulated subsidies, then the hopes of a successful result were very slender indeed. The only true foundation of success could be looked for in the ability and determination of the respective Sovereigns to pay their own armies, and in the spirit of their people to prosecute the war. If the Allied Sovereigns were influenced in their proceedings by the prospect of procuring subsidies from this country, the moment we ceased to pay those subsidies, that moment, perhaps, they would cease to fight. He had one other observation to make. After an arduous struggle, the Allies had completely beaten Buonaparté—they had got him within their power—they had almost incarcerated him—still, however, he had contrived to escape: and, he should be glad to know, what security they were to
 [474
 Mr. W. Smith  supported the original question. He observed, that very little practical good could be derived from the exertions of the commissioners, if, while they were investigating the nature of an office, and inquiring whether it was tight to continue or to abolish it, a
 [454
 Sir J. Newport  said, he never intended; to describe the situation of Clerk of the Crown and Hanaper as equal to other great law offices. He should not have alluded to the filling up of the situation, if the right hon. gentleman had not accused him of inconsistency, in not waiting till the Commissioners of Inquiry in Ireland had made their report.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he would not press the measure on the present occasion; but he had, in compliance with the wishes of his Majesty's ministers, postponed it so
 449]
 Sir J. Newport  said, he had formerly contended, that the principle on which, this Bill was founded, had received the sanction and approbation of Parliament, and he would still contend that such was the fact. It proceeded on the same principle as that of the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. W. Pole), and that proposed by the hon. member on the floor (Mr. Bankes). The Bill for altering and regulating the Office of Registrar of the Admiralty also recognized and sanctioned the principle. The last-mentioned Bill provided, that the office should not be discharged by deputy—that it should be held only during good behaviour—that
 451] l l [452 l l l l l 453]
 Sir John Newport  moved the second reading of the Bill "to regulate the Fees and Emoluments of certain Offices of the Courts of Law in Ireland after the determination of the now existing Grants thereof respectively."
 Sir John Newport  said, that however disagreeable it might be for gentlemen to hear any discussion on the question, who not having known a word about it, came now to decide it, still they must submit to the privation it imposed, and bear the irksomeness of listening to the debate. On the former night, the brilliant oratory of his right hon friend (Mr. Grattan), who on that occasion displayed himself in the meridian lustre of his transcendent genius—who manifested the same glow of fancy, the same creative imagination, which distinguished him on every question which he undertook to illuminate—that oratory had prevented him from venturing to occupy the time of the House; but he would now venture to express his decided disapprobation of the general principle of the war. The interference of foreign nations in the internal government of another country, was not reconcilable to any principle of equity. How would England have received the declaration of Louis 14, if he had presumed to prohibit them from choosing William 3, at the same time declaring that there was no intention of forcing James 2 on their throne? This would not be dictation, according to the opinion of certain gentlemen, because only one was excluded; but our ancestors showed their indignation at even this negative mandate, for they termed it an insolent attempt to appoint their Government. As to the object of the war, he believed it was the restoration of the Bourbons. If not, why was Louis 18 asked to accede to the Treaty, and why was he required to appoint his contingent of troops to the grand Alliance? This was a manifestation of the principle that actuated their conduct. He agreed with the hon. member (Mr. Bankes), that if the Allied Powers meant to unite in one common
 473]
 Mr. Yorke  said, it was not his intention to detain the House for any great length of time, and he certainly meant to avoid going into a general detail of the principles connected with this subject, which did not appear to him to be necessary for the decision of the present question. He could not help expressing some surprise at the conclusion of the hon. baronet's speech. He had, in a very clear and distinct manner, stated his objections to the resolutions; and having pointed out, in terms which he would not attempt to describe, the danger to be apprehended from unqualified emancipation, he concluded his speech in a way which undoubtedly excited his astonishment, by declaring that he did not mean to oppose going into the committee. On this he would not dictate—he would leave it to the hon. baronet to reconcile the inconsistency which was observable between the general tenour of his speech, and his resolution to abstain from opposing the motion: but this he would say, that if every gentleman acted as the hon. baronet meant to do, the very dangers which he
 [492 493] [494 495] de propaganda fide, ad referendum. sui juris, ex cathedrâ, [496
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  observed, that the right hon. gentleman who spoke last from the other side of the House (Mr. Yorke), had very properly abstained from discussing the principle of this question. He should follow his example, though not for the reason stated by the right hon. gentleman, who seemed to think that a majority of the House was not capable of changing their opinion. He could not agree to such a proposition as this, when he recollected, in the early discussions on this question, the immense majorities which were arrayed against it. Those majorities gradually diminished; and, on the last discussion, a great majority appeared in favour of emancipation. He was sure, therefore, that, there was no set of men in that House, so insensible to reason, to justice, to the principles of the British constitution itself, as to withhold from a great body of their fellow-subjects, those rights to which they were intitled, merely because they had been long deprived of them. He contended that the right hon. gentleman had entirely misunderstood the preamble of the Bill, which he had read to the House. The words of the preamble were, "It is just and expedient that the Catholic inhabitants of these realms be restored to the free enjoyment of the rights and benefits of the constitution." They did not say that they had a right to those immunities; but they claimed, from the wisdom of Parliament, that they should be allowed those privileges which the
 499] [500 501]
 Mr. Ponsonby  rose and said:—I have so frequently delivered my sentiments upon the Catholic claims, in former debates, that I do not think it necessary to enter at any length upon the subject this night, conceiving, as I do, that a repetition of my arguments would be as disgusting to the House, as irksome to myself. I shall therefore only offer a few reasons for the vote which I shall give for going into the committee. At the, same time I am ready to acknowledge, that the time and mode of introducing this subject is not the most judicious. In voting for going into the committee, in order to afford the House an opportunity of considering the question in all its bearings, however, I do not consider myself as bound, in the smallest degree, to any one of the Resolutions proposed by the hon. baronet. It would be a strange perversion of the ordinary course of parliamentary proceedings, if because in agreeing to a committee, it was known
 [504 505]
 Mr. Peel  said, that to the honour and dignity of the House it was due that the motion for going into a committee should be resisted. If an attempt at arrangement could only be productive of dissatisfaction and disunion, there was no reason why the House should proceed to legislate on the subject; and on this ground it was material to inquire into the state of feeling among the Catholics of Ireland, as that feeling was to be collected from the declarations of persons who possessed the confidence of that body. The hon. baronet who moved the Resolutions had said, that by repealing the laws obnoxious to them, the House would obtain the gratitude of the Irish Catholics. The hon. baronet should have been the last person to talk of the gratitude of the Irish Catholics, when he reflected on the circumstances under which he himself had been induced to present their petition to the House. Mr. Peel said, he should beg the attention
 [506 507] d. [508 509] [510
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House at any length; but be could not consent to suffer the present question to go to a vote, without stating the precise view which he entertained of it. It was his solemn conviction, that in bringing it forward in the manner it was now produced, the ultimate success of the measure would be rather retarded than advanced. His opinions upon the subject were in no degree varied from those which he had pronounced on former occasions; and he was thoroughly convinced, that any measure of concession, unless founded upon the general and comprehensive principle heretofore discussed and admitted, would fail in all those conciliating qualities which it was so essential to regard. With respect to the manner in which the intentions of the Legislature, during the last session, were met by the Catholics of Ireland, he had no hesitation in saying, that if the ultimate decision of the question depended upon his individual judgment, he should not discourage the giving effect to that measure, even though it were met on the part of the people of Ireland, by the most extensive dissatisfaction. He did not conceive that on any great measure of state, the people were generally qualified to estimate its fitness or propriety at the moment of adopting it, when their passions and interests were strongly excited or alarmed. When, therefore, he looked to the speeches of the individuals in Ireland, who now managed the affairs of the Catholics, and when he looked to their conduct, he might regard them as obstacles to the immediate accomplishment of measures of general relief, but certainly not as containing in them any thing dangerous. He had always been of opinion, that the question of concession, if granted with those securities which were essential to it, would never confer upon the Catholics that quantum of power which could render it dangerous to admit them into the constitution. As to the present moment, however, in which
 [516
 Lord Binning  said, he would not enter on the general question of the claims of the Catholics, but should vote for going into the committee, though he might there rote against every one of the Resolutions. If he were to narrow his view of the subject to the consideration of the conduct of individuals of the Catholic body, instead of looking to the general merits of the question, it was probable that he should come to the same decision that his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) had come to on the historical statement which he had submitted to the House. He much regretted the course taken by his right hon. friend in deciding against the prayer of the Catholics, on the grounds upon which he had acknowledged that decision to rest. For himself, he did not feel that he had any thing to do with what any factious speeches which Mr. O'Connel or Dr. Dromgoole might have made. Whatever their conduct had been, it ought not to affect the general question. If ever a question had gained by discussion, this had. He thought the destiny of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, had been left in their own hands. Had they felt grateful to that House and to their firm and venerable friend (Mr. Grattan), they might now have been in a different situation. He regretted (the hon. baronet would forgive him,) that the petition of the Catholics had hot been entrusted to the same hands which had been so long charged with it, and he lamented to find it wanted a number of respectable names which had been always attached to it before. He objected to the Resolutions, as descending to minor objects, with which it was not before thought advisable to encumber the great measure of Catholic emancipation; and he also objected to them because they
 [514
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, he should detain the House very shortly, but that on a question affecting so deeply that country to which he was bound by every tie of private affection, by every public obligation also, he could hardly give a
 521] [522
 Mr. Bathurst  defended the line of conduct adopted by his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel), from the animadversions of the last speaker, and strongly objected to the mode pursued by the hon. baronet who had introduced the question. It was the first time he recollected the introduction of a proposition of this kind, by producing to the House a series of resolutions, not for their consideration, but for their unqualified approval. To add to this inconsistency, they were called upon to go into the proposed committee, not to acquiesce in the  sine quâ non 513]
 Mr. Bankes  commented with some severity on the Resolutions of the hon. baronet, which in Ireland had been published in the form of a bill, and which it appeared the hon. baronet had not brought forward of himself, but had received them from a body of men whom he believed to represent a large portion of the Roman Catholics of Ireland. He saw no prospect of conciliatory measures being successfully pursued, seeing that the Roman Catholics required the surrender of all they wished to obtain without offering any security in return. Till the Church of Rome adopted a different mode of treating those who might be considered as heretical from that which had been hitherto pursued, he was of opinion that the Catholics could not be entrusted with political power, without an apprehension that they would attempt to use it for ulterior purposes. He thought nothing farther ought to be done with respect to the Catholic claims, till they came forward with those securities which might satisfy the Protestants. Till this was done, it was not too much for the House to say, that it would not proceed one step farther in the business. Until that; time should arrive, Parliament could not consent to invest that body with political power. Those who professed the established religion had a right to say, We cannot give you an extension of privileges, unless you are willing to give us securities. Some of the most intelligent men in the country had endeavoured to form something tending towards satisfactory security; but that which we looked upon as a panacea had been treated by the Catholics as an abomination. Under all the circumstances, seeing no prospect of a final and conciliatory arrangement with the Catholics, seeing that the Reso-
 515]
 Mr. Grattan  rose and said:—Sir; Exhausted as the subject is, I trust that the House will allow me to trouble them with a few sentences. I do not wish to give a silent vote upon the question, particularly circumstanced as I am with respect to it. I shall certainly vote for going into the committee, on the principle which has been so generally stated this evening; that the only thing we have at present to determine is, whether or not the Catholic question shall be taken into consideration. But in giving this vote, Sir, I by no means pledge myself to the support of the Resolutions which my hon. friend has exhibited. Further, I must say, that for some of those Resolutions I cannot vote. I beg leave to observe, in considering the Catholic question, that it is not sufficient to dwell merely on what may be strictly and absolutely necessary—some regard ought to be paid to the feelings of those by whom that question is to be deter-
 523] [524
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he concurred with the noble lord in his opinion that a committee would be desirable, though there were many of the propositions against which he (Mr. W.) should vote; but he must think that if the committee were granted, it ought to do something else than merely to negative the wishes of the Catholics for unqualified concession. The hope of qualified concession, of concession with such securities as were thought necessary, had been strongly nourished, in his mind, after the proceedings of the session of 1813, when that bill emanated from the committee, and when the first clause of it was lost only by a majority of four:
 517] [518
 Mr. Serjeant Best  said, he would not, for one, vote for the proposed committee, because he could not agree to concede to the Catholics of Ireland all they asked; and without such a concession, from the declaration of that body, it appeared they would accept of nothing. When this subject was formerly under the consideration of the House, the terms upon which concessions were to be made, as well as the extent of those concessions, were fully discussed, and he, for one, had stated his willingness to grant the Catholics the right of sitting in that House, however averse he might be to their holding the higher offices of state. This partial com-
 [502 503]
 Mr. Huskisson  lamented, in common with all who had spoken on the subject, the conduct and the language of the Catholics of Ireland—conduct and language much more calculated to retard the attainment of their object, than the arguments of those who conscientiously opposed their claims. He should certainly, however, vote for the committee; because when any considerable portion of his Majesty's subjects came to Parliament, complaining of privations and disabilities, he, for one, would never oppose the consideration of their grievances. At the same time he wished it to be distinctly understood, with reference to the Resolutions which had been proposed, that neither on this nor on any other subject, he hoped the House of Commons would allow itself to be dictated to.
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  said, it was not his intention to trespass long upon the attention of the House; but under all the circumstances of the case, be felt it impossible to give a silent vote upon the question. In explaining the grounds upon which he should vote that night, it was necessary to define accurately what the question was upon which they were then called upon to decide. The House was not then called upon to concede the claims of the Catholics, or to determine to what extent concessions ought to be granted, but merely to refer the Petition to the consideration of the committee; The hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had, in his opinion, put the question upon its proper footing, and he should follow that example, and confine himself strictly to the question, Whether this Petition ought or ought not to be referred to a committee? Retaining, as he did, the opinion he had formerly expressed with respect to the claims of the Catholics, he was decidedly of opinion that the motion of his hon. friend (sir H. Parnell) ought to be agreed to; but, on the other hand, he desired to be distinctly understood, that, in giving that vote, he by no means pledged himself to support the propositions of his
 519] [520
 Sir Henry Parnell  rose and addressed the House as follows:—Mr. Speaker; I have requested that the clerk might read from the Journals, the Resolutions we have just heard, in order to bring under the view of the House the progress that has been made towards the entire repeal of the penal laws which aggrieve his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects. The last Parliament declared the expediency of taking these laws into consideration; and the present one has expressed, on three
 475] [476 477] [478 479] [480 481] [482
 Sir Henry Parnell  made a short reply, in which he contended, that the discussion of the subject must be serviceable, and that, as a member of parliament, it was his bounden duty to lay the case of the Catholics before the House. He urged the House to consent to the committee, and expressed his conviction that he should be able in that committee to explain his Resolutions in a way that would be thoroughly satisfactory.
 Sir J. C. Hippisley  said, that he could not reconcile himself to a silent vote on the present occasion, having long exercised all the best faculties of his mind in the consideration of the general subject with which the motion of the hon. baronet was so intimately connected. He regretted he had not been in his place when the Petition, stated to be that of the English Catholics, was presented, as he should certainly have called the attention of the House to it; and, indeed, he was satisfied, that there were scarcely two names of English Catholics of weight and consideration in the country to be found among the signatures. As to unqualified concession, such as was contended for in all the petitions which had been presented on the same subject during the present session, his views of the question had ever been opposed to it. Restrictions operating against the encroachment of a foreign jurisdiction, such for instance, as the Roman  curia, * * "Most Illustrious and Right Reverend Lord; "With great pleasure we have learned, that a Bill, for the emancipation of the 483] Catholics of your flourishing kingdom from penal laws, which was proposed in the last year, and lost by a small minority, may probably be again presented in this session of Parliament. It is our ardent wish, that this Act, so much desired, may at length be passed; and that the Catholics, who have ever given such distinguished proofs of their obedience and fidelity, may at length be delivered from the heavy yoke by which they have so long been oppressed; and that, without any detriment to their honours or estates, they may give full scope to those exertions, which both religion and the good of their country require of them. And this may be surely expected from your most beneficent Sovereign, and from that illustrious nation, which, on former occasions, and especially in these latter times, has acquired so much glory in the estimation of the whole world for its equity, prudence, and other virtues. And, since it has been represented, that among the bishops certain questions and differences have arisen, relative to the conditions on which the Catholics are to be placed on an equality with their fellow-subjects—We who, in the absence of the Supreme Pastor, are placed over the concerns of the sacred missions; and, for that purpose, are invested with full pontifical powers; have thought it incumbent on us to remove every ambiguity and obstacle which might impede so desirable a conciliation; and, by the authority and consent of the Holy See, to supply such faculties as do not come within the ordinary limits of episcopal jurisdiction. Having, therefore, taken the advice of the most learned prelates and divines; having examined the letters which have been transmitted to us both by your lordship and the archbishop of Dublin; and the matter having been maturely discussed in a special congregation; it is decreed, that the Catholics may, with satisfaction and gratitude, accept and embrace the Bill which was last year presented for their emancipation, in the form in which your lordship has laid it before us. One point only requires some explanation; and that is, the second part of the Oath, by which the clergy is so restrained, as not to be permitted to hold any correspondence with the Sovereign Pontiff and [484 his ministers, which may, directly or indirectly, subvert, or in any way disturb, the Protestant Government or Church. It is evidently by divine authority, the special duty of the ministers of the Church, every where, to propagate the Catholic faith (the only faith which can lead to eternal felicity), and to refute erroneous doctrines. This is taught by the precepts of the gospel, and by the example of the apostles and their successors. Now, should a Catholic convert any Protestant to the orthodox religion, he might be deemed guilty of perjury; as, by such conversion, he might seem, in some sort, to disturb the Protestant Church. Understood in this sense, the oath cannot lawfully be taken, as being repugnant to the Catholic Faith. If, on the other hand, this be the meaning of the legislators—that the ministers of the Catholic Church are not forbidden to preach, instruct, and give counsel, but are only prohibited from-disturbing the Protestant Church or Government by violence and arms, or evil artifices of whatever kind; this is just, and entirely consonant to our principles. "To you, therefore, it belongs, with all humility and earnestness, to supplicate the high court of Parliament, that in order to quiet and secure the consciences of the Catholic Clergy, it will affix some modification or declaration to this clause in the oath, which, removing every ambiguity, may leave them the liberty peacefully to preach and to persuade. In case the Bill be already passed, containing the same words, or that nothing in it is allowed to be altered, let the Clergy acquiesce; and it will be sufficient for them publicly to declare, that this, and this only, is the sense in which they have sworn to it, so that nothing in the oath may be adverse to orthodox doctrine; and, that this protest may be generally known, and be for an example to posterity, this construction of it shall be publicly recorded. It were to be wished, likewise, if it can be obtained, that a declaration should be made by some of the members of Parliament, that Government requires the oath from the Catholic Clergy in this sense, and no other. Other clauses, which you mention as contained in the same Bill, may be submitted to by the indulgence of the Apostolic See. 485] "That the King should desire to be certified of the loyalty of such as are promoted to a bishoprick or deanery, and should be assured that they are endowed with such qualities as become a good subject; that, to investigate these particulars, he should likewise appoint a committee to inquire into their moral conduct, and make a report to his Majesty, as your lordship has given us to understand is the case: that for the very same reason, the King should require that foreigners, and those likewise who have not resided five years in the kingdom, should be excluded from such dignities—all this, as it regards only what is within the competence of civil authority, may be deserving of every toleration. It is highly proper that our prelates should be agreeable and acceptable to the King; that they should exercise their ministry with his full consent; in fine, that their probity should be evident even to those who are not in the bosom of the Church. For a bishop (as the Apostle teaches, 1st Epistle to Timothy, iii. 7.) must have a good testimony from them who are without. On these accounts, by the authority vested in us, we allow that those who are designed for a bishoprick or deanery, and are proposed by the clergy, be admitted or rejected by the King, according to the proposed Bill. Therefore, after the clergy have, in the usual manner, chosen those whom they shall have judged in the Lord to be worthy to be exalted to those dignities, in Ireland the metropolitan of the province, in England and Scotland the senior apostolical vicar, shall announce them to the committee for the Royal approbation or dissent. If the candidates be rejected, others shall be proposed, who may be pleasing to his Majesty; but, if approved, the metropolitan or apostolical vicar, as above, shall send the act of their election to this sacred Congregation, which, having weighed with care the merits of each individual, shall apply to the Sovereign Pontiff for canonical institution. We observe, likewise, that it is the office of the said committee to examine any letters which are sent to any of the clergy of Great Britain from the Ecclesiastical Powers, and diligently to inquire whether any thing be contained therein which may be obnoxious to the Government, or in [486 any way disturb the public tranquillity. Since communication with the head of the Church in spiritual and ecclesiastical concerns is not prohibited, but the inspection of the committee regards only matters of civil policy, this likewise ought to be acquiesced in. It is good that the Government should not entertain any suspicion concerning our communications. "What we write can be laid open to all; for in no way do we interfere with, civil concerns: our attention is directed to those things only which appear to be required by the divine and ecclesiastical law, and by the salutary regulations of church discipline. Those matters only shall be kept secret, which affect the internal tribunal of conscience; but for this we see it is sufficiently provided by the clauses inserted in the said Bill: and we are well persuaded that your wise Government, while it is intent on preserving public security, will, by no means, exact that the Catholics should depart from their religion: nay, is rather pleased that they faithfully adhere to it; for this holy and divine religion is friendly to public authority, gives stability to thrones, and makes subjects obedient, faithful, and emulous of their country's welfare. Nothing, therefore, can be more gratifying and delightful to the Apostolic See, than that between the Government and its Catholic subjects there should exist an entire concord and a mutual confidence; that the ministers of the state should never be able to doubt their loyalty, obedience, and attachment; and that the Catholics themselves should be devoted to their country with every effort of zeal, candour, and alacrity. We therefore exhort all, in the name of the Lord, and especially the bishops, to lay aside contention; and, for the edification of others, unanimously to adopt the same sentiments, that there may be no room for schism, nor any injury be done to the Catholic cause: but that, if the Bill shall be passed, by which, the Catholics shall be freed from the penal restrictions by which they are now held, they not only embrace it with entire satisfaction, as has already been said, but express the strongest sentiments of gratitude to his Majesty and his most august council, for so great a benefit; and, by their conduct, prove themselves worthy of 487] * it. In conclusion, we request of your lordship, that you will cause this letter to be communicated to all the bishops and apostolical vicars in the kingdom: and, trusting that they will promptly and entirely conform themselves to these things, which from the power vested in us have been decreed, we beseech the Lord God Omnipotent to preserve your lordship for length of years; and, at the same time, I profess myself bound to you by every consideration, and am Your most devoted Servant, J. B. QUARANTOTTI, Vice-President. MICHAEL ADEODATUS GALEASSI, Substitute. "Given at Rome from the Chambers of the Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith, 16th February, 1814." * "At a meeting of the Roman Catholic Prelates, held in Dublin the 17th, 18th and 19th of January 1799, to deliberate on a proposal, from Government, of an independent provision for the Roman Catholic Clergy of Ireland, under certain regulations not incompatible with their doctrines, discipline, or just influence— "It was admitted, That a provision through Government for the Roman Catholic Clergy of this kingdom, competent and secured, ought to be thankfully accepted. "That in the appointment of the prelates of the Roman Catholic religion to vacant sees within the kingdom, such interference of Government as may enable it to be satisfied of the loyalty of the person appointed, is just, and ought to be agreed to. "That to give this principle its full operation, without infringing the discipline of the Roman Catholic Church, or diminishing the religious influence which prelates of that church ought justly to possess over their respective flocks, the following Regulations seem necessary: "1. In the vacancy of a see, the, clergy of the diocese to recommend, as [488 usual, a candidate to the prelates of the ecclesiastical province, who elect him or any other they may think more worthy, by a majority of suffrages; in the case of equality of suffrages, the metropolitan or senior prelate to have the casting vote. "2. In the election of a metropolitan, if the provincial prelates do not agree within two months after the vacancy, the senior prelate shall forthwith invite the surviving metropolitans to the election, in which each will then have a vote; in the equality of suffrages, the presiding metropolitan to have a casting vote. "3. In these elections, the majority of suffrages must be  ultra medietatem, "4. The candidates so selected, to be presented by the president of the election to Government, which, within one month, after such presentation, will transmit the name of the said candidate, if no objection be made against him, for appointment to the Holy See, or return the said name to the president of the election, for such, transmission, as may be agreed on. "5. If Government have any proper objection against such candidate, the president of the election will be informed thereof within one month after presentation, who in that case will convene the electors to the election of another candidate. "Agreeably to the discipline of the Roman Catholic Church, these regulations can have no effect without the sanction of the Holy See; which sanction the Roman Catholics of this kingdom shall, as soon as may be, use their endeavours to procure. "The Prelates are satisfied that the nomination of parish priests, with a certificate of their having taken the oath of allegiance, be certified to Government. (Signed) RICHARD O'REILLY.
 
 J. S. TROY. EDWARD DILLON. THOMAS BRAY. P. J. PLUNKETT. J. MOYLAN. DANIEL DELANY. EDMUND FRENCH. JAMES CAULFIELD. JOHN CRUISE." 489] [490 491]
 Sir N. Colthurst  supported the motion for going into a committee, and argued against those who maintained, that unless the House went the whole length of the Catholic demands, they would effect nothing.
 Sir J. Newport  thought, that looking to the tranquillity of Ireland, and the consolidation of the Union, it would be most unwise to dismiss the petitioners before the House without any examination of their case. Such a proceeding would indeed serve, in his judgment, to aggravate that soreness, upon the expression of which the last speaker had so long dwelt, while it must operate to paralyze a great portion of the strength of the empire, at a period when the effective union of all its resources was so essential to its common safety. He lamented that so much bitterness had been manifested upon both sides of this question, and especially that such bitterness had appeared in that House. But he could not persuade himself to believe, that the House would repel the case of the petitioners unheard, merely because some of those aggrieved individuals had given expression to their honest minds in rather an intemperate manner. For it might be, that if any set of gentlemen in that House were equally aggrieved, they would vent their dissatisfaction in terms even more intemperate. As to securities, he could not help thinking that the best security that could be devised for the present establishments of the country would consist in a community of privileges; because every man, of every religious persuasion, would then have an interest in supporting the system to which he owed the enjoyment of his privileges. According to the last speaker, the House should decline to concede to, or even abstain from, the consideration of the Catholic claims, until the Catholics should altogether suppress the declaration of any angry feeling: but in his (sir J. N.'s) view, it would be the better policy at once to remove the cause of such angry
 511] [512
 Mr. Knox  said, that as it was his intention to oppose the motion of the hon. baronet, be felt it necessary shortly to state to the House the reasons which induced him to do so. No measure would do more to strengthen the connexion between Great Britain and Ireland, than that of giving to the Roman Catholics the full extent of the privileges of the constitution: but he was sure that Parliament would never agree to any measure of that kind, without ample provision was made, to prevent any foreign or papal influence. Though it had not been, nor could it be expected, that there should be a universal approval, by the great body of the Catholics, of the measures adopted to ameliorate their situation, yet it was necessary that there should be a pretty general assent, otherwise any plan agreed upon by Parliament would be attended with no effect. In 1813, he entertained a hope, that this business would have been finally adjusted. He thought there appeared, amongst the several parties in Ireland, a willingness to come to proper arrangements. All the objections, it was then hoped, might have been removed by the concurrence of the Pope in certain propositions. As he had shown considerable liberality, he thought his holiness would not refuse to do something for that important part of his flock, the Catholics of Ireland. With this hope, he agreed lo the Bill of 1813. But, however flattering the prospect then was, it
 497] [498
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to request an hon. general to postpone his motion for the erection of a monument to the memory of the late sir Edward Pakenham.
 [526
 Mr. Ponsonby  thought the public ought to be protected by Parliament as well as the Bank, and was of opinion, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have done well not to be so much on the alert in announcing to them that he should not be disposed to give further information. Before he endeavoured to guard himself in this respect, he might have waited till the papers now called for had been produced.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had only wished it should be understood that he disagreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Grenfell) on this subject, though he did not oppose the present motion. He did not consider the Bank ought to pay more than it had done up to the present time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not mean to oppose the present motion, but desired to guard against its being supposed that he would feel it his duty, in his official situation, to grant further papers on the same subject. He could not agree with his hon. friend in the view which he had taken of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the hon. gentleman meant to give notice of a motion on the subject, when the day arrived, he should have no objection to the question being entertained; but if he intended now to press the motion, he would oppose it on this simple ground, that it was much too important thus to be brought before the House without a notice being previously given.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think it just in the House to revise a bargain concluded between the Government and the Bank.
 Mr. Baring  said, that the Bank never would refuse to pay what the Legislature might deem just and expedient; but he hoped when the question came to be considered, that it would be entered upon with a better temper, and a more conciliating spirit than the frequent attacks made on it by his hon. friend (Mr. Grenfell)) would seem to indicate. The House was then called upon to bind itself to an examination of the composition, without having, as was acknowledged by the hon. member, any information on which they could form a correct decision.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that country bankers complained that they paid 6 d.,
 Lord Althorpe  felt that, in rising to call the attention of the House to the motion he was about to make, he ought to intreat their pardon for having undertaken a question of such weighty importance. He had hoped that it would have been undertaken by some person of talents more commanding than he could boast; but thinking it a case which could not be neglected, he trusted that the House would meet his exertions with indulgence. He felt how unequal he was to the task; but the question lay in so
 [532 l. l. 533] l. * * Downing-Street, 20th May, "Sir; Having received the commands of his royal highness the Prince Regent, to lay before the House of Commons an explanation of the manner in which the sum of one hundred thousand pounds, granted to his Royal Highness by the Act of the 52d Geo. 3, cap. 7, has been applied; I request you to furnish me with such information as it may be necessary to lay before the House of Commons ac- [534 l. l. l. l. l. cordingly. I have the honour to be, Sir, &c. N. VANSITTART." Copy of a Letter, dated 20th May 1815, from Robert Gray, esq. to the right hon. Nicholas Vansittart; respecting the manner in which the sum of 100,000 l., "Somerset-Place, 20th May, "Sir; In reply to your letter, signifying that you have received the commands of his royal highness the Prince Regent, to lay before the House of Commons an explanation of the manner in which the 535] l. sum of 100,000 l. l.; "The general amount of the claims outstanding on the 18th day of February 1812, comprised not only the greater portion of the expenses that had arisen during the past year of restricted Regency, but also a variety of debts previously incurred for articles actually used or consumed in that same year, and which must then have been provided, if they had not been already in use, or in store; yet the difficulty, and in most instances the impracticability of determining what [536
 Lord Castlereagh  began by explaining why the letter of Mr. Gray bore date the 20th of May, because at that time it had first been thought proper to embody the information (which had been before contained in a memorandum) in such a shape that it might with propriety be laid before the House. He begged the House not to be misled by that favour which it usually extended to a motion for inquiry, to pass a direct censure on the advisers of the Crown, because, unless a presumptive proof of a breach of the law was made out, the appointment of the committee would be unwarrantable. The breach of law, if it could be made out, would be even criminal; but before the House
 was to be deemed applicable to his Royal Highness's use as Regent, and what as Prince of Wales, is sufficiently obvious; and indeed it never occurred to the commissioners to attempt any separation of the accounts for that purpose. "It may be proper to add, that the commissioners are not empowered or authorized to discharge any claims, other than those made up to the 18th day of February 1812; and that the claims then made up included all for which his Royal Highness was in any way answerable. I am, with great respect; Sir, &c. "ROBERT GRAY, "Secretary to the Prince of Wales's Commissioners." Copy of another Letter from Robert Gray, esq. "In answer to the further inquiry made respecting the application of the sum of 100,000 l. l. s. d. l. ROBERT GRAY, Somerset-Place, May 537]
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that if he was restricted from bringing forward any new information, the line of debate would be very much curtailed, as he should be confined to mere matter of historical information.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he should not read any thing, the results of which, would not be confirmed by the committee. He did not conceive that he was restricted in his statements to information which was in the possession of the House, because he might save his time, if he could state nothing but that which the House knew before.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, it did not, in the least degree, vary the matter, whether from a paper, or from his memory, he stated facts essential to the argument he
 539]
 Lord Castlereagh.  —It is not the paper.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the gentlemen on the opposite side of the House seemed afraid of that information for which they were generally so anxious, and to dread the effects of free discussion. He should state, that during the whole of the present reign the ordinary and extraordinary revenue of the Civil-list had been 51,623,564 l. l., l. l. l. l. [540 l. 541] l.; l. l., l. [542 l. l., l. l. l. l. 543] l. l. l,
 Mr. Wynn  said, that it was with unfeigned pain, feeling the respect which he did for his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down, that he felt it his duty to declare that the argument of his hon. and learned friend went most directly against the privilege of Parliament, the substance of the constitution, and that active control over the Crown which the House of Commons were bound to exercise in the appropriation of the public money. What! was it a mere technical matter that a sum of money granted by
 [550
 Lord Folkestone  expressed his surprise, that the hon. gentleman should acknowledge that a violation of the Act had been committed, and yet declare his intention to vote against inquiry.
 Mr. Ponsonby  observed, that it gave him great pain to say, that since he had sat in that House he had never heard so unconstitutional an argument as that of his hon. and learned friend near him (Mr. Leach). To the Speaker, who was so well acquainted with the history of parliament, and who knew, that by a perseverance in noble struggles against the two other branches of the Legislature, that House had established its right to direct the application of the public money, it must be particularly grating to hear it asserted, that it was no violation of the constitution to apply to one purpose the money which had been granted by that House for another. With respect to a learned friend of his (Mr. Adam), for whom he had the greatest regard, he must say, that the heaviest charge against him was the defence which it had been attempted to set up of his conduct. If any additional motive were requisite to induce the House to consent to the appointment of a committee, it was in order that his learned friend might have an opportunity of justifying himself; for he was persuaded that his learned friend could not act as had been imputed to him. His hon. and learned friend near him had said, that there had been no misapplication of the public money, because Parliament were bound to pay his Royal Highness's debts in some shape or other; and the right hon. gentleman opposite had declared, that that House had recognised those debts. This he denied. Parliament were under no pledge on the subject—although he was persuaded, that if the inconveniencies under which his Royal Highness laboured had been represented to the House, they would cheerfully have relieve him from them—and even if they were, that would be no justification for taking the money granted for one purpose and applying it to another. His hon. and learned friend called these considerations forms. Forms! They were forms for which our ancestors had fought and bled. Let hon. members read the history of the struggles of that House with the Crown on the subject. Let them read how often that House had refused grants of money to the Crown, because former grants had not been applied to the purposes for which they had been voted. Let them
 [552
 The Solicitor General,  after declaring that no one could give a more conscientious opinion on the subject than himself, contended that a strong case of the violation of the law, or of the abuse of the power vested in certain persons by the law,
 553]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he proposed at so late an hour of the night, to omit several parts of the new plan of increased duties, till there should be a fuller attendance of members and an ampler opportunity of discussion. Amongst these were the stamps on promissory notes, bills of exchange, law proceedings, and bankers' licences. He had no disposition to take the House by surprise, or to press to an advanced stage any measure which had not already received the apparent sanction and approbation of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assented to the wish of the hon. baronet.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that he had had conferences with several persons who appeared to represent the sense of those individuals who were more immediately interested in the measure, and an arrangement had been agreed on which was supposed to meet the views of both parties. The general result of this arrangement was, that the progressive duty on advertisements should be abandoned, and that in lieu of it there should be imposed a common duty of an additional sixpence, making the whole duty 3 s. d.
 The Speaker  said, he knew of no technical rule to prevent a member from making use of any information which he might possess; but the source from which
 [538
 Mr. Bathurst  was surprised that the conduct of his noble friend should be considered out of order, as there could be no practice more universal than that the ministers of the Crown should give statements from documents not known to the House in general. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, for instance, was continually in the habit of reading papers respecting the state of the revenue which were not before the House.
 Mr. Horner  thought the conduct of the noble lord, in reading the paper in question, destroyed that equality which gave the freedom of debate, and which was the foundation of all the rules of order. It was known to every one that a paper of accounts would, with very little ingenuity, present very different views to different minds; and it was an evident contravention of the rules of order, that those papers, which had been refused by two votes, to the members of the House, should be partially read by any particular member who might get possession of them.
 Mr. Horner  was much surprised at the opinion expressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; for when the right hon. gentleman came to the House to require an increase on the Stamp-duties, if, at the same time, the composition with the. Bank
 531]
 Mr. Tierney  rose to order, and objected to the selection by the noble lord from a paper which had not been granted to the House. The papers in question had been laid before the House for the purpose of being conveyed to a committee up stairs, and his motion for the printing of them had been rejected. The noble lord had therefore no right to make a selection from that which was denied to the House, and of which no member could judge.
 Mr. Tierney  said, the noble lord might give any historical information he chose; but he submitted to the Chair, whether any member was at liberty to make use of that information for a parliamentary purpose, which the House had refused itself by its vote.
 Mr. Tierney  began by observing, that if the noble lord had confined his remarks to the motion before the House, he should not have thought it necessary to add any thing to the able speech of the noble
 [544 l. l. l. 545] l., l. [546 l. l. l. l., l, l. l. l. l., l. 547] l. [548 l.
 Mr. Tierney  thought, unless the Chancellor of the Exchequer had some doubts on his mind as to the course which it might be proper to pursue, there could be no good reason for delay. His hon. friend was anxious to lose no time in, bringing under the consideration of the House what appeared to him a case of monstrous injustice; inasmuch as while ministers were imposing new taxes upon others, the Bank was exempted from the imposts to which it was justly liable.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that if one clerk could make out the return in six months, twelve clerks would be able to prepare it in a fortnight. It might cost the Bank trouble, but it would save the public 58,000 l.
 General Gascoyne  declared, that his only object had been to do justice to the distinguished merits of as gallant an officer as had ever fallen in the service of his country. He had no objection to defer his motion, and doubted not that he could satisfy the noble lord, that his motion was strictly justified by precdent.
 Mr. James Daly  presented a Petition from the Catholics of the county of Galway, praying relief, and regretted that the decision of last night had been so unfavourable to the wishes of the petitioners. Having been so unfortunate as to have been shut out of the division last night, he took this opportunity of stating his entire concurrence with the motion of the hon. baronet, being fully convinced that unless we put the Catholics of this empire on a footing of equality with their Protestant fellow subjects, we should want that cordiality which was so necessary to the prosperity of the two countries.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  had no hesitation in saying, that the Act of Parliament had been violated, in as far as it was a breach, of the Act to apply the money to other purposes, than those expressed in it. It appeared that all expenses of his Royal Highness's household in 1811, which were extra expenses beyond those which he would have incurred as Prince of Wales, were only, strictly speaking, payable out of the grant. But yet the hon. gentleman opposite had not made out a case which called upon the House to vote for a committee. By going into a committee they would be conveying an idea to the country that the money had been improperly applied; but of that there was not the least notion entertained. The country had not lost one farthing by it. It gave him great pleasure in coming to this conclusion. At the same time he acknowledged that the expenditure of the Civil-list had undoubtedly created a strong sensation in the country, and he felt convinced that the
 [554
 Mr. Calcraft  conceived that his Royal Highness, during his whole life, had been exceedingly ill treated in money matters. Those who had formerly been severe towards him, were now endeavouring to make amends; but yet his Royal Highness had never been so ill-treated as he now would be if this committee were refused: 100,000 l.
 Mr. Leach  said he could not, after the most deliberate examination of the present question, come to the same conclusion as the right hon. gentleman. On the contrary, he did not see the slightest grounds for the proposed inquiry. The hon. and learned gentleman warmly vindicated the character and conduct of Mr. Adam from any imputation which might be supposed to attach to him as the adviser and counsellor of his Royal Highness, in respect to the mode of liquidating his debts, and then proceeded to argue the question at some length, so far as it re-
 549] l.
 Mr. Grenfell  was anxious that all the information should be laid before the House, that it might be satisfied as to the correctness or incorrectness of the principle of the agreement with the Bank of England. In his opinion, under the new Stamp-duties it ought to pay three times the sum it now gave as a composition for stamps. The correct principle was this—that the Bank of England should pay, as a composition, as much as the sum it would pay for stamps amounted to, were they required to be affixed to their notes. The sum now paid was 58,000 l.
 Mr. Grenfell  rose to move for certain Papers, to elucidade the transactions between the public and the Bank of England, with respect to the stamps on the bills and notes, issued by them. A compromise had, as was well known, been entered into with the Bank. The reason, and the only reason, for this indulgence granted to the Bank of England, was the practice which they had been in for a considerable time past—a practice to which he had no objection—of cancelling all their bills and notes the moment they were returned. With this arrangement, or any other which had a tendency to promote the fair profits of the Bank of England, it was not his intention to interfere, so long as their profits were not all at the expense of the public. He wished to be allowed to make one or two observations on the different agreements which had been entered into. The first agreement was made in 1791, and the sum agreed to be paid as a composition for the duty on stamps was 12,000 l. l. l. 527] l. d. d. l. l. l. l. l. [528 l. l. l., l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell  did not pretend to understand the business of the Bank so well as its governor; but he moved for the papers now under consideration, that he might better comprehend the nature of the dealings between the Bank and the Government. The House ought not to be kept
 [530
 Mr. Grenfell  then moved, "That this House will, upon Wednesday next, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the rate of composition paid by the Bank of England to the public in lieu of Stamp-duties on their Bank-notes and post-bills."
 Mr. Long  contended, that though the House was never pledged to pay the honourable claims on his Royal Highness, yet it was aware that such claims existed, and had in fact recognised them, inasmuch as 50,000 l. l. l. 551]
 Mr. R. Ward  said, that as no previous notice had been given of a motion so very important, he should certainly oppose it.
 Mr. Whitbread.  —Not the paper! Is it any one of the papers which have been refused to the House generally?
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that if the document was one of those to which he had alluded, he should propose a vote to the House, as to the propriety of the noble lord's making use of it.
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that in the present case there was a vote of the House on the subject, by which it had refused that the specific paper which the noble lord was about to read should be printed, and put within the reach of every member of the House. Whether the noble lord was or was not a member of the committee on the Civil-list, he could not with propriety make use of papers which were unknown to the rest of the House.
 Mr. Whitbread  wished to know, whether the paper the noble lord was about to refer to, was one of those which had been placed on the table, for the purpose of being referred to the Civil-list committee, and which, therefore, was not before the House? If this were the case, he objected to any quotation from it.
 Mr. Mellish,  though he disapproved of the motion, did not mean to divide the House on it.
 Mr. Mellish  adverted to the time that would be taken, and the trouble given in making out the accounts required. Tho-
 529]
 Sir Charles Monck  inquired whether the right hon. gentleman intended to bring on that part of the schedule which related to the new tax on advertisements.
 Sir Charles Monck  conceived that a new question arose out of this plan for transposing the new duties on advertisements and newspapers. It was generally considered that the universal circulation of knowledge produced by the daily journals and other periodical publications, was one of the most extensive and substantial advantages resulting from the liberty of the press. The House, therefore, ought to determine whether it might not be a duty they owed to the public, whose interests were most concerned, to step in between Government and the editors of newspapers, who, he could easily apprehend, might coincide in an arrangement convenient to both, but by no means equally beneficial to the public. He confessed he was very averse to seeing the necessities of the state supplied by means which seemed to tend to the suppression of general information. The right hon. gentleman, he hoped, would at least have no objection to postpone the resolution for the present.
 Lord Milton  expressed himself to be as much surprised as the noble lord (Folkestone) at the little connexion which could be traced between the argument and the conclusion of the hon. gentleman who preceded him (Mr. Wortley). He trusted, however, it was possible that his support might yet be obtained, before the question went to a vote. In order to secure it, he wished to give notice, that if the question should be negatived, it was his intention to move a resolution, declaring, "that it appeared to the House, that the sum of 100,000 l.
 Lord Milton  then moved, "That the copy of a letter, dated 20th of May 1815, from Robert Gray, esq. to the right hon. Nicholas Vansittart, respecting the manner in which the sum of 100,000 l., l.
 Mr. Wynn  said the notices were general, and extended from Blackwall to Battersea.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for the appointment of a select committee, to inquire into the state of the Law respecting the Writ of Habeas Corpus ad Subjiciendum. The hon. and learned gentleman, said he made this motion in consequence of the fate of a Bill upon this subject which had passed through that House in the most unanimous manner, but the second reading of which was postponed for six months in the House of Lords, the Bill being thereby virtually rejected. The object which he had in view, in introducing the Bill originally, was to correct
 567]
 The Attorney General  said, he should not oppose the motion of his hon. and learned friend; but he could not help expressing a doubt of the practicability of carrying the suggestion which he had thrown out into effect. He conceived that apprehensions would be entertained without doors, if such a plan were adopted, that it was intended to give to the Judges a power of too extended a nature. Indeed, he could not help thinking, that such an inference would not be very far short of the truth; for if the functions of the Judges were so enlarged, it would be giving to one judge the power of trying and deciding upon a cause, unrestrained by any higher authority. It was true, that now and then a case of injustice, or of undue imprisonment, might arise under the law as it was at present constituted; but then the parties aggrieved were not without a remedy. If it were possible to improve the law upon this subject, he should be most happy in landing his assistance to promote such an end. He saw the difficulties, however, which lay in the way; and al-
 [568
 Mr. Wynn  thought this was a subject which called for the serious attention of Parliament. The hon. and learned gentleman who had spoken last seemed to have insinuated, that no very many instances had occurred, in which the law as it existed had been attended with ill consequences. If, however, no instance of the sort had ever occurred, and the possibility of the liberty of the subject being infringed only existed, he thought that bare possibility would be sufficient to call upon the House of Commons to take such measures as would obviate such a chance. It had been said in another place, with reference to the Bill which had already passed the House upon this subject, that the House of Commons was not entitled to much respect with reference to any act of legislation upon such subjects; and that the Bill could not be considered as a well-digested measure. He would abstain from making any comment upon this language, if it had been used, and would only observe, that it reflected disgrace not on the House of Commons, but on the person who had brought forward an objection of such a nature.
 Mr. Wynn , in pursuance of his notice, rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for repealing a clause in the Thames Police Act prohibiting persons from bathing in the river Thames, from the East India Docks to Battersea-bridge, after the hour of seven, o'clock in the morning, and before the close of day. He observed that, upon reading over the Bill in question, he was never so much surprised as in meeting this clause, for, from the code of the Bill, it appeared to be an Act "for the more effectual prevention of depredations on the river Thames." There was not one word stated about bathing, nor did he believe the House in general were at all aware that it contained such a clause as that to which he referred. This Bill was introduced to the House on the 21st of July last, at the close of the session; it had never been printed, and, in fact, its contents were little, if at all known. The clause in question, and which he trusted
 569]
 Mr. Atkins Wright  said, he should object to this report being received at all. He could not consent to impose any additional burthens on the public, unless there was an absolute necessity for such a proceeding; and as he was not satisfied that the erection of a new Post-office was indispensable, he should oppose the appropriation of the public money to such an object. The business of the Post-office was at present carried on with the greatest degree of celerity; and for his own part, he saw no necessity for alteration. It was possible, that advantageous alterations might be made, but those ought to be postponed to a convenient season.
 Mr. Gordon  said, the sum offered by the city of London was a delusion. In point of fact, the city would not pay more than 12,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if he had thought it possible to save the money that would be expended in the erection of a new post-office, in his responsible situation he should have been most anxious to do so; but after the fullest inquiry, and the most patient examination of witnesses, he had been reluctantly compelled to decide in favour of the measure. The sum expended on this post-office would repay itself in a very short time, and there seemed a great probability, that by the arrangements which the new building would facilitate, an increase in the revenue of 50,000 l 575] s
 Mr. Rose  said, that in the opinion which be gave, he was entirely guided by the previous recommendation of the committees which had sat on the subject. If the present post-office was decided to be inadequate for its uses, the balance of expense between its enlargement and the erection of a new one, was, in his opinion, in favour of the latter, from the many advantages which it embraced.
 Mr. Browne  defended the decision of both committees, which had fully entered upon every consideration relative to this question, although they had heard every thing which was pertinaciously urged in opposition by the hon. gentleman near him (Mr. Sumner), and also by the hon. member for Taunton (Mr. Baring), who he supposed had altered his opinion on the subject, as he no longer persevered in his opposition. l [576
 Mr. Gordon  observed, that some delusion must have been practised on the House, as it was understood that the whole expense to the public, both for the purchase of the ground and the erection of the building, was to be 240,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that there was a deduction made in the estimate on account of the value of the present Post-office materials, and the ground on which it stood.
 Mr. Gordon  urged the propriety of building the Post-office at Somerset-house, where there was sufficient ground already in the hands of Government.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  next proposed, that the parish in which the new Post-office is to be erected shall be compensated out of the revenue of the Post-office, for the diminution of parochial and ether rates, for paving, lighting, &c. which may be occasioned by the houses to be pulled down.
 General Thornton  was extremely averse to giving patronage to dissenters: he considered that the Bill would be injurious both to Church and State. He then moved to leave out the words 'meeting-houses,' and to insert in their stead, 'chapels according to the established religion.'
 General Thornton  said, he objected to the principle of the Bill, and would oppose it in every stage. He had a great dislike to the levelling system, and thought it improper to throw additional rates on parishes. The Bill was brought in by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he hoped it was not a measure of administration. He was not for giving such encouragement to dissenters, by making the persons of the established church pay for the rates of meeting-houses. It would be much better to throw them on the public.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  observed, that there never was an amendment more hostile to the principles of a Bill. He perfectly agreed with the opinions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and thanked him for bringing the Bill forward. If the hon. general meant to make the Bill ridiculous, he was perfectly right in proposing his amendment; but he hoped he would stand single.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the introduction of the Bill as relieving a number of meritorious individuals from considerable vexations, and by no means infringing upon any parochial privileged. At the same time he did not wish to be considered as giving any other weight to the measure than what it might justly derive from its own merits.
 General Thornton  stated, that in one parish, that of St. George's, Hanover-square, the amount was 151 l s d
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  was a strong friend to the Established Church, but he could not look on this Bill in the light in which some gentlemen had viewed it. As to free seats, he perfectly agreed with the clause which the hon. member was about to propose.
 Lord Folkestone  observed, that the present Bill was one of the most serious importance, considered in a constitutional point of view, as its object was to admit 16,000 foreign soldiers, commanded by foreign officers, into the kingdom. The Bill likewise differed from the former, inasmuch as the present authorized the introduction of such a force during any war, while the former limited it to that during which it had been enacted. But, not satisfied with admitting those foreigners into the kingdom, to enjoy rank within their immediate corps, the Government had given them commissions in the English army, and had advanced them to the rank of generals commanding brigades and districts. On what principle was it, that while Englishmen of rank and fortune were prevented by the rules of the service from arriving so suddenly at the head of the army, these foreigners should be exempt from their operation; and, having entered
 [580 de novo,
 Lord Folkestone's  motion was then put, and negatived. Several clauses were introduced into the Bill, which was ordered to be read a third time to-morrow.
 Mr. Barclay  opposed the bringing up the Report, from an unwillingness to vote away the public money, on works of mere ornament or magnificence, whilst the country was burthened with such heavy impositions. To erect such a building as that proposed in the centre of a suffering population, would carry, in his opinion, the appearance of an insult on the difficult circumstances to which an unavoidable war had reduced them. He had heard of the liberality of the City, but he confessed he could see very little of it in this affair.
 Mr. Harvey  said, he would not oppose, the motion in its present stage; but as he lived in the neighbourhood of the Thames, he had an opportunity of witnessing the disgraceful scenes which were presented to the public, and which, in his estimation, loudly called for the interference of the Legislature. Some measure was certainly necessary to correct this evil; and he trusted, if the hon. gentleman proposed to repeal one clause, he would suggest another, which would at least secure the public from a repetition of the nuisance to which he had alluded.
 Mr. Protheroe  thought the improvement contemplated the most economical plan that could be acted upon.
 Mr. Protheroe  supported the Bill, as he thought it would remove a very galling distinction now subsisting between two classes of the community.
 Mr. Horner  said, that during the progress of the negociations at Ghent, he had put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for the purpose of learning from him what information was possessed by Government on the subject of certain allegations made by the Government of the United States, respecting the mode in which the war had been conducted in America. It had been
 571]
 Mr. Horner  expressed himself satisfied with the course of conduct which had been pursued. It gave him the sincerest pleasure to learn that a charge of so serious a nature, a fleeting the character of the army and the country, rested on so slight a foundation.
 Mr. H. Sumner  thought it should be distinctly understood, before the House voted a large sum for clearing the ground, what was to be the building to be erected on it. No plan had been before the committee of the upper stories of the building; and he much suspected that those parts would be occupied with apartments for the officers, which, besides being an indirect increase of their salaries, would by augmenting the number of residents increase the danger of fire.
 Mr. H. Sumner , on the ground that the sum of 240,000 l l
 Mr. Holme Sumner  was of opinion, that
 [574 l l l l l
 Mr. Bankes  observed, that such would be the amount (it was true) of the ultimate expense; but in the mean time the purchase-money must be provided, which would be reduced by the re-sale of part of the ground, by the contribution from the Orphans' Fund, and the value of the old Post-office.
 Mr. Bankes  lamented that it had been deemed necessary to introduce this Bill at the present moment, when the nation was so heavily burthened. At any rate be thought the House was not yet sufficiently informed upon the subject, and that it ought to be postponed until next year. He believed that a trifling addition to the present Post-office would be quite adequate for the present purposes. He adverted to several unnecessary expenses in public buildings, particularly at the Transport-office in Cannon-row, which was ornamented by a colonade of Ionic pillars and a basement story of Portland stone. The Mint, also, after 300,000 l
 Mr. Bankes  observed, that as many chapels were built in the west end of the town, on speculation, and for the sake of profit, it was perfectly just to compel the payment of rates. If those parochial rates were not enforced, it would be putting so much the
 579]
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that immediately after this charge was made known to him, he had addressed a note to the American plenipotentiaries, requesting them, as the abolition of the Slave-trade was a point on which they were equally interested with this country, to communicate the evidence of which they were in possession, that it might be in our power to bring our officers, if guilty, to punishment. It did so happen that the American ministers did not think themselves justified in communicating the information with which they were famished. But at the same time, in a conversation with one of the gentlemen, he had expressed his willingness to furnish him (Mr. Goulburn) with the information on which the charge was founded; and he had the satisfaction of learning, that it rested on the affidavit of a single individual, who swore that he knew of a slave having been carried in an English ship of war into the Bahamas, whom he saw afterwards sold to an individual there; and that he had heard that this was a constant practice. As this affidavit contained the name of the individual to whom the slave was alleged to have been sold, and other particulars, it became an easy matter to ascertain the truth of the charge; and instructions had immediately been sent to the governor of the Bahamas, to inquire into the whole circumstances of the case. An answer had not yet been received, though they were hi daily expectation of one; but before the House should separate, he expected to have it in his power to satisfy them on this subject.
 Mr. H. Martin  thought it rather alarming for the House to hear, that at no period, even of peace, these foreign officers would cease to belong to the British army.
 Mr. Martin  said, that if such were the sentiments of the hon. general, he ought to have opposed the introduction of the Bill.
 Mr. H. Martin  begged to know whether the hon. general meant that chapels not
 [578
 Mr. Wrottesley  thought the space vacant at Somerset-house would be quite inadequate to the extent of the building required.
 Mr. Wrottesley  said, it was his intention to propose a clause, that no chapels which should be built hereafter, should be exempted from the payment of parochial rates, unless in every chapel a certain number of free seats were provided, proportioned to the size of the chapel.
 Mr. Addington  said, it was not his intention to oppose the motion; but he begged leave to say a few words, explaining the reason upon which the clause had
 [570
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  defended the pro-
 573]
 Mr. Lockhart  supported the amendment, on the grounds, that the pressure of the times required a strict attention to public economy. Besides, if means were necessary for a purpose of great local improvement, why not draw them from some of those great city funds, the application of which had been, from a variety of causes, diverted from the original intention of the donors? For instance, large sums were appropriated for the redemption of Christian captives in Algiers, and he had not of late years heard that any such persons had been so released. If a liberal contribution were called for, why not afford it from some part of this local purse, which would be particularly augmented by the adoption of the measure, instead of drawing it from the public, under the present state of the country?
 Mr. Butterworth  observed, that the sum of 240,000 l 577]
 Mr. Grenfell  read a part of the Report, which distinctly stated that the whole expense to the public would be only 240,000 l
 Mr. Davies Giddy  considered the Bill a matter of conciliation, and that it ought to be adopted. He observed, that the rates arising from places of worship were inconsiderable.
 Mr. W. Smith  objected to the situation in which it was proposed to place the new Post-office, as it would be in the way of the greatest improvement that could be made in the metropolis, that of making a street strait from Blackfriars-bridge (by removing Fleet-market) to the northern road. He could not approve of expending 200,000 l
 Sir James Shaw  appeared at the bar with the report of the Post-office Bill, which he was proceeding to bring up, when the Speaker informed him that the question was not yet put.
 Sir John Newport  objected to arming the magistrates of the city with such a power as the present law gave them. He knew not why persons were to be deprived of the exercise of an amusement so salutary as that which had been alluded to by his hon. friend, and had only to lament that the Bill in question had been introduced into the House at such a period of the session as deprived the members of the opportunity of giving it due consideration.
 Lord Palmerston  explained, that all that was meant by this Bill, was to continue the services of German officers, as we were now at war. The Act was limited to the return of peace.
 Lord Palmerston  thought the House would hardly entertain the noble lord's proposition, which went to cut off 20,000 men from our army, at the very moment when the country was again at war. As to the other observations of the noble lord, it would be very hard if the German officers in our service were to lose that rank in peace, which they had merited by their conduct in war.
 Mr. Atkins Wright  objected to the Bill, not because he was adverse to the principle, but because he feared that its provisions were impracticable. He thought that the whole of the Poor Laws required a revision; and that till some clear and comprehensive alteration of the whole could be made, it was in vain to apply partial remedies, and patch up a faulty system. He was afraid that the clause, which gave opportunity to parishes to be heard in the first instance against an adjudication by which they might be fixed with the pauper's settlement, would foment, instead of allaying litigation, and would be attended with a great deal of trouble both to parishes and magistrates.
 Mr. Western  disapproved of this measure, as he had done last year,  in toto. cui bono
 Mr. Wynn  really felt sincere reluctance at giving his opposition to any measure which had in view so beneficial an object, as that proposed by the hon. mover of this Bill. But he much feared that the present Bill would have a very contrary effect from that which was contemplated. The clause which provided for calling on parishes to resist adjudications, was pregnant with seeds of contest and trouble. He thought that if removals did not take place, as now, in the first instance, parishes would lose the benefit of ascertaining a pauper's identity by his presence among them; and that they ought not to be put to the expense of taking a long journey to cross-examine a pauper, and satisfy themselves by a personal examination. As the law now stood, the pauper was brought home to their doors for this purpose, and they had all the benefit of it in case of appeal. For thus they could better judge, whether there was ground for such appeal: while, so long as he was in the custody of the removing parish, they could not have an equally free and impartial examination of him.
 Mr. Bennet  wished to inquire into the expense of the Military College at Sandhurst. He had no objection to the establishment itself, but he had to the form which it seemed to assume, and which was calculated to give too much of a military tone to the character of the country.
 Sir John Hope  reprobated the general assertions in which Mr. Bennet had dealt, in his attack on the institution at the head of which he had the honour of being placed. The object, if properly executed, was most beneficial; it was open as day to inspection, and he should be happy to receive any hints that would be useful; as soon as any useful suggestion was made, the improvement would be attempted.
 Mr. Bennet  replied, that his objections merely went to the military tone which the form and manner of the school assumed, not to the general principle of the establishment.
 Sir John Hope  spoke highly both of the objects and success of the institution in question. At the commencement of the war we had been obliged to study military science under foreign masters; we had since, through the munificent aid of Parliament, acquired the means of obtaining that instruction within ourselves. Out of 276 students of one class, 114 either had served, or were now serving on staff departments. The time consumed in becoming acquainted with regimental drill, and the manœuvres of taking up ground for forming in line, did not exceed an hour, or half an hour in the day; the rest was devoted to pursuits becoming a gentleman as a well-informed member of society, or more immediately connected with the views of that profession to which it was intended the student should be trained. In addition to those branches of instruction in which he was supposed to have already made some progress, his attention was directed to mathematics, to fortification, to the principles of military survey, both practical and theoretical, to drawing, and, according to the abilities displayed, to an intimate knowledge of the French and German languages. The series of his studies was completed by a high finishing examination made by other masters than those under whose direction he had been, and it was those masters who finally decided whether his proficiency and qualifications entitled him to a commission without purchase in his Majesty's service. Of another class, 651 officers
 [592 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in pursuance of his notice, rose to propose a vote to complete the Army Extraordinaries he should state to the committee what sum he had thought fit to propose to cover that branch of expense for the present year, although from former experience he could not, with any confidence, assert the accuracy of the estimate which had been formed Towards the army extraordinaries of the present year, three millions had already beep, voted; and it was now in his contemplation to propose a further vote of nine millions, making in all 12 millions for the army extraordinaries of the current year. This amount was calculated on three grounds; one ground of calculation was the amount of the expenditure for the first three months of the year, which had been 1,800,000 l. 595] l. l., l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained, that on a former occasion he had proposed six millions on account for the extraordinaries of the present year, and four millions to pay off arrears. The right hon. gentleman had objected to the vote on account, and a sum of three millions only, which was the expense then supposed to have been incurred in this year, was voted, together with the four millions for arrears. It was found, however, that the actual expense had only been 1,800,000 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the foreign expenditure being all entrusted to the commissaries general, the sums paid could not be divided into the heads of ordinaries, extraordinaries, &c. until the accounts were brought to this country. The greatest part of the 1,200,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was true that the expense of the year would be very great; but it would have been great even if it had not been a year of war, because the arrears of the last war which were to be provided for, were between 18 and 20 millions.
 Mr. Gordon,  on rising to comment upon the
 597] [598 ex parte; l. in terrorem, 599] [600
 Mr. Gordon  briefly replied. He wished to observe with respect to the trial which had been mentioned as coming on in this country, that the difficulties which must first be surmounted had to him appeared so considerable, that he had thought he ought not to suffer what to him appeared so remote, to prevent the present motion being made. On an understanding that governor Ainslie would not return to Dominica, till this matter had been explained, he would consent to withdraw the motion.
 Mr. Horner  thought the hon. baronet deserved the respect and thanks of the House for the pains he had taken, and the unshaken assiduity with which he had given his mind to a measure of such vast importance to the community. It was therefore with great reluctance, that he felt himself compelled to differ with him as to the means which this Bill provided for effecting his purpose. He was much afraid that it would not answer the end
 [586
 Mr. Tierney  said, it was to be observed, that an arrear of 20 millions had been incurred, during the former war, while the expenditure of the war was supposed to have been fully provided for; they should, therefore, take care that they did not incur another 20 millions of arrears; and notwithstanding the expenditure of 80 millions in the present year, we were not secure against it.
 Mr. Tierney  wished, that at the time when the measure of war had been sanctioned by the House, the expense had been laid before them. At first the question was merely proposed to them abstractedly, then came a little grant of money, and then larger votes, till at last the House would be called on to vote for the first year of the present war 30 millions sterling at the least for the subsidies and warlike establishments, such as army, navy, ordnance, transports, &c.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that the rest of the three millions voted for army extra-ordinaries must have been applied to purposes not connected with the army extraordinaries. The introduction into the army extraordinaries of sums not connected even with the army, was the great cause of confusion in those accounts, and
 [596
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he would not return till after the trial, which he apprehended would afford every requisite explanation.
 Mr. Goulburn  stated the appointment to have taken place some time since, but he had been ordered to remain in England to answer the charge. He presumed it was not desired that he should be dismissed, as that would be to prejudice the question.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that nothing could be more candid, than the manner in which the hon. gentleman had brought this subject forward. He, however, must oppose the motion on this principle, that to entertain it would, be to prejudge the question between, Michell and governor Ainslie, which was to be tried in this country, in those courts where the whole of the transactions could be more satisfactorily investigated than they could be by that House. This stated, he trusted it would be felt that to anticipate the inquiry would be to defeat it. He briefly replied to some of the statements made in the course of the debate. He asserted the proclamation to have been issued in consequence of murders and depredations which had been committed upon the whites, and when the general state of things had become such as to threaten the loss of the island. From all that he knew on the subject, he had reason to believe the result of the inquiry would be satisfactory to the friends of general Ainslie.
 General Gascoyne  said, that in certain cases the blacks had been enlisted for a limited time.
 General Gascoyne  expressed himself satisfied with what had fallen from the noble lord.
 General Gascoyne  proceeded to observe, that the coble lord had not stated whether the officers on half-pay on the Irish and English establishments were on the same footing. He wished also to know-by what act the poundage on the pay of officers was raised. He wished to know whether the Portuguese officers received pay both from England and Portugal. With respect to the half-pay which had been granted to the army, according to the noble lord's construction, it had been limited to certain services. By this means a great many meritorious officers would be excluded from it, contrary, as he was convinced, to the intention of the House. The services in the Peninsula were certainly brilliant; but were those officers who had served in Egypt, America, and Flanders, to be precluded from the additional half-pay because they were not in the Peninsula? Many of them were, on half-pay, not from their own choice. He wished therefore to move an additional allowance of 500 l. l.
 General Gascoyne  said, it was his intention to have moved for an addition to the half-pay of officers; but from the alteration of affairs, in consequence of the war, he did not think it necessary now to bring forward any motion on the subject,
 [590 l. l. l.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  explained, the nature of Mr. Bennet's objection to the Military College, but applauded the general system on which it was conducted, and admitted its great utility. The pressing of waggons for the conveyance of baggage he believed had, in some instances, been carried to too great an extent, and some arrangement was in contemplation on the subject. As to the yeomanry, he thought this species of force was most valuable, not merely as a military force, but in aid of the Police, in which department it had been of the most essential service.
 Mr. Lockhart  was somewhat surprised at the suggestion of the hon. member who spoke last, because he himself had, in a former parliament, brought in a bill containing precisely the same plan as that which the hon. member now proposed, which had the misfortune to experience his decided opposition to it; and the bill was unfortunately thown out. He himself did not approve of all the machinery of the present Bill. He thought a great deal of evil and wasteful contest might arise from the clause which gave opportunity to parishes to oppose adjudications in the first instance. But as be approved the principle of the Bill, he should not oppose the second reading.
 Mr. Nicholson Calvert  was favourable to the principle of this Bill; but he feared that the complexity of its machinery would render it far less beneficial in its effects than the hon. mover supposed. He dreaded the number of hearings and re-hearings that it would cause: he was afraid that it would stir up attornies in the first instance, to contend with one another, and that the time and attention of magis-
 [582
 Mr. Long  bore testimony to the benefits arising from the Military College, and explained the nature of the poundage which had been alluded to, and the authority by which it was drawn. It was done away in cases of full pay, and, might hereafter be subject to limitation in other branches of the service.
 Mr. Whitbread  had always been in favour of bills to ameliorate the condition of the poor. He had supported the hon. baronet's Bill embracing similar objects last year, and he should support this. He must say that its machinery did not appear to him as practicable as he could wish; but he begged the hon. baronet not to be discouraged: it was impossible but that the agitation of such questions should do a great deal of good. The public mind was thus, step by step, drawn to a due attention to objects which required their continual deliberation. He himself had not been so fortunate as to carry the great measure which he proposed some years ago with similar views: but he did not repent of the attempt; nor did he doubt that, though it failed, the very discussion of it had produced important benefits. As to the great schemes of general revision which hon. members talked of, and the arguments for delay which they founded on them, he considered them as nothing more than plausible pretences, to get rid of a measure al-
 587]
 Mr. W. Smith  wished it also to be under-
 [606
 Mr. W. Smith  thought it was due in justice to the blacks who when captured were placed in the situation of soldiers, without exercising any choice, to allow them, at any rate after a certain term of service, the alternative of further service or of return to their names.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought governor Ainslie, like all other persons in the West India islands, must know that the greatest injustice that could be done to an individual was to deprive him of his freedom. Michell, it appeared, had first been punished for nothing at all—for not taking an oath in obedience to a proclamation of the governor; which oath, it was proved by several witnesses, he had taken in the presence of governor Ainslie himself; and those who had treated him thus, endeavoured to escape from the consequences, by depriving him of the most precious thing he possessed—his freedom. This was the paltry, mean, base, and abominable defence which had been set up, and this defence made him more indignant than all the rest. Lord Bathurst, on perusing the papers which were submitted to him on behalf of governor
 605]
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, he more particularly alluded to enlistment for a limited period, from which this description of soldiery was precluded. If the blacks were allowed to return, after a certain period of service, to their native country with their military habits and associations, they would necessarily increase the disposition among their countrymen to enlist.
 Mr. Wilberforce  approved of the establishment of the black regiments, and suggested that this description of force should be put on the same footing as European regiments.
 Mr. Wilberforce  thought the gallant general must have been misinformed, as there was a clause in the Act excluding the black troops from that benefit.
 Mr. Wilberforce  thought the Military College highly beneficial to the country, from the instructive source of military education which it formed. It was surely essential that the officers in the service should have the opportunity of an extensive preliminary education.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  reprobated the maintenance of a volunteer cavalry, whose services were not equal to the expense. He was convinced of the utility of the Military College.
 Sir Robert Heron  spoke at considerable length in defence of the character of governor Ainslie. He said, be would first advert to the charge against him, of having
 601] [602 l. 603] in terrorem.
 Sir Egerton Brydges  was not a little surprised at the arguments which had been urged in opposition to this Bill. He rather thought hon. members must have totally misunderstood both its nature and provisions. Its principle was founded on the most incontrovertible justice. It would scarcely be contended in these days, and it did not seem to be contended,
 583] [584 585]
 Sir Egerton Brydges  moved the second reading of the Bill to prevent the Removal of Chargeable Paupers, till a final adjudication of their respective Settlements.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  thought, that unless the House proved false to all its professions for the benefit of the black population of the West Indies, it could not refuse to institute the inquiry now called for. As to what the hon. gentleman had said of some of the charges originating in private revenge, it should be recollected, that the atrocious murders perpetrated by one Hodges, in one of the islands, would never have been brought before the public, but for a private quarrel. He was surprised that the friends of governor Ainslie should oppose an inquiry. Here sir Samuel read the depositions of several persons, all going to prove that Michell was flogged for not taking the oaths; bat whatever the offence, the punishment was inflicted without trial, in the public market-place, and by order of a British governor, whose special duty it was to protect the people of colour. This duty the West India governors had been specially charged to perform, in a circular addressed to them by the duke of Portland in 1797. Was the offence to be passed over, because a West Indian jury, with all its prejudices against people of colour, had given Michell only 5 l. [604
 Lord Palmerston  said, that they were on the same footing as whites, with the difference that two years of service in the West Indies did not reckon for three years
 [594
 Lord Palmerston  said, he should merely state to the House, in a general way, the nature of the arrangements relative to the army. He had, in the first instance, made an estimate founded on the establishments at Christmas last, and then he had stated the augmentations which had been made since in consequence of the rupture with France; and the House would thus be enabled to see what increase had been made in consequence of the general state of our relations with France. There was, upon the whole, a decrease in our establishments of this year, compared with those of 1814, of 47,000 men, and 2,652,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. [588 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 589] l. l. l. l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, this was always the subject of a separate estimate.
 Lord Palmerston,  in answer to the inquiries of an hon. member, stated, that it had been agreed, after some difficulty, that the half-pay of the English and Irish establishments should be reciprocal, and that their respective officers, on removing, should receive the half-pay of the country in which they resided. The reason which had induced the exclusion of those officers whose service was anterior to the last war, or to the campaigns of the Peninsula, was, that there were a great number of inefficient officers, and it was difficult to come to the alternative of compelling them either to serve or to relinquish their commissions. In many cases there had been no real service, and the half-pay had been purchased as an annuity. With respect to the officers serving in the Portuguese forces, the various difficulties they had had to contend with, in rendering those troops fit for the field, appeared to justify the regulation by which they were allowed to receive Portuguese pay in addition to their own. In answer to a question put by another hon. member, he wished to observe, that the military establishment at Sierra Leone, had been formed on a plan recommended by the late member for Yorkshire; and its principle was, that as something must be done with the captured negroes, it was a favourable destination for them to be put on something like the level of a British soldier. The establishment consisted at present of 566 men, volunteers, and captured negroes, and of 104 boys. After what had been so well said by an hon.
 593]
 Sir George Clerke  moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Scotch Game and Fish Preservation Bill.
 Sir G. Clerke  observing that those terms were particularly applied to two clauses of the Bill, the one inflicting a severe penalty on unqualified persons killing game and fish, and the other on persons laying snares, declared, that he was willing to withdraw both; and hoped, by such a concession, to conciliate the favour of the hon. gentleman, and also of the member for Glasgow (Mr. Finlay), who he understood intended to oppose the Bill.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that nothing should be wanting on the part of his Majesty's ministers to execute strictly the wishes of Parliament on that interesting subject. The present state of the case was most favourable to the accomplishment of that object; and he could assure his hon. friend that the subject had not escaped the notice of ministers.
 Mr. Bennet  animadverted on the conduct of King Ferdinand 7 of Spain, who
 611]
 Mr. Gordon  was anxious to know whether any means were devised to correct the lavish expenditure in the commissariat department.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the attention of Government had long been directed to this subject, and he hoped that measures had been now taken to put the system under more effectual control. In Spain, owing to the nature of the country, and the scantiness of resources, which led to the dispersion of the officers of the commissariat very widely, it was found impossible to regulate the department as well as could be wished, and abuses had crept in. In the Netherlands the supplies being abundant and at hand, the same difficulties would not exist; and the appointment of Mr. Rosenhagen to the new office of controller of this department, he hoped would be attended with the happiest consequences.
 Mr. Baring  complained that the whole system of the commissariat in Spain had
 [612
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if such a practice existed it had not come to his knowledge. He was happy to say that a larger sum of ready money had been obtained for the army, by regular means than had been expected.
 Mr. Peel  said, that a measure was in contemplation, whereby, in all cases where soldiers were billeted on private individuals in Ireland, an allowance, of threepence per night for lodging money would be allowed; a sum which, on all occasions, would be sufficient to induce the soldiers to go elsewhere; but as there were many districts in that country in which public-houses were not to be found, it was absolutely necessary that billets on private individuals should be granted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  knew of no such practice.
 Mr. Baring  said, that this practice appeared to him to be exercising an unjustifiable act of sovereignty over those countries whose coins we imitated without express permission. What should we say to foreign nations who should venture to fabricate guineas for us?
 Lord Castlereagh,  in rising to propose that a monument should be erected to the memory of the late sir Edward Pakenham, assured the House, that whatever delay had taken place in proposing the present vote, was to be attributed only to an anxiety not to infringe those roles by which the proceedings of Parliament in cases of this nature had hitherto been guided. The general principle had been to connect with records and tributes of this nature something of a successful issue to the occasion on which the individual had fallen, or had acquired distinction. There were, however, he had discovered, exceptions to this rule, and he was far from thinking that the present instance was not one in which the exception ought to be allowed. Monuments had sometimes been voted where Parliament had not previously expressed their approbation by a vote of thanks; and if this had ever occurred, he could conceive no reason why that honour should not be decreed to a soldier, distinguished on so many memorable occasions, and whose whole short but active career had been passed in the highest schools of his profession. He was generally admitted to be not only a good disciplinarian and an exact regimental officer, but to possess all those endowments of mind which were essential to the more important duties of command. After having acquired great reputation in the West Indies, where he was twice wounded, he applied to be sent to the Peninsula, though in very bad health,
 [614
 Mr. Wynn  suggested the propriety of entering the several votes of thanks of the House to general Pakenham, to the number of six, which having been done, the motion was unanimously agreed to.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that the object of the Bill was to restore to the public the advantage of bathing in the river Thames, of which they had been deprived by a clause introduced into the Thames Police Bill, at a late period of the last session, which left a discretionary power to the magistrates, of which they had availed themselves, by prohibiting persons from bathing on the shores of the river Thames, from Blackwall to Battersea-bridge, under a penalty of 20 s. 615]
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that the country had gone on extremely well under the old law on this subject; and if decent females who look the water were annoyed, it was better they should stay at home than that the health of all the lower classes of the metropolis should suffer for the accommodation of their delicacy, Queen Elizabeth, with her maids of honour, used to go from Whitehall to Greenwich, or to Richmond, in barges, and the archbishop of Canterbury to pass in a barge to attend his duty in parliament, at times when the practice of bathing in the Thames was more common than at present. Besides, the Police Act had no provision against persons undressing or exposing themselves, so it was not with an intention to bathe.
 General Thornton  lamented, that some gentlemen of great abilities, who intended to oppose the third reading of the Bill, were not then present; but as he had intimated his intention of opposing it in every stage, he would then declare, that it seemed of a dangerous and alarming nature. It
 617]
 General Thornton  wished, in the first place, to oppose the amendments, and then to throw out the Bill altogether.
 The Speaker  then put the question, that the Bill, with its amendments, be engrossed.
 Lord John Russell  rose to express his disapprobation of the war, which he declared to be impolitic in its origin, unjust in its object, and injurious in its consequences. He could not conceive what right we had to compel France to receive any particular form of government. It was true, that annexed to the Treaty of Vienna was a Declaration that the Allies would not force the Bourbons on the throne of France; but nothing could be more contradictory than the purport of the Declaration, and the 1st and 8th articles of the Treaty—by the former the right of Louis was waved; while the latter recognised it in full force. He conceived that Declaration to be nothing more than a pretence to satisfy the friends of freedom in this country, and to conceal the real object of the confederacy. As to compelling France to submit to foreign dictation, the thought was absurd—the experience of history would not warrant such a supposition, and the last war should have taught us the impossibility of effecting it.
 Mr. Bathurst  thought that some power of summary punishment, by fine, should be given against offenders against decency, as the common-law remedy was expensive, and the punishment severe.
 Mr. Bathurst  wished the committee on this Bill to be fixed for Thursday, on which day he should propose a clause to limit the operation of the Bill.
 Mr. Bathurst  moved that the committee have power to amend the Thames Police Act. He thought it would be proper to revive the provisions as to bathing, somewhat modified; one reason for which was, that the want of deference in the lower classes towards the higher, which had increased so much of late years, rendered some alteration in the law necessary.
 Mr. Horner  said, that it was absurd to attempt to conceal the fact, that not only Prussian and German, but French money, was now coined at the British Mint most extensively; and it was almost equally certain, that British guineas to a great amount were melted into Louis-d' ors. He admitted that it might be a necessary expedient, but it was absurd to keep laws upon the statute book against individuals, to prevent melting the coin of the realm, when: Government were guilty of the crime to so enormous an extent.
 Mr. Horner  said, the hon. gentleman had committed a pious fraud in his statement of the case, because the Bill would merely declare, that it was inexpedient to make a provision to prevent all bathing between the West India docks and Battersea, there being already a law against any indecent exposure of the person, either in the Thames or elsewhere, which had been exerted against one of the most celebrated wits of Charles the second's court, sir Charles Sedley. Nothing, he thought, should be left to the discretion of the magistrates on this subject.
 Mr. Horner  expressed his unqualified dissent to the measure; and that opinion was in no small degree confirmed by the assertion made by an hon. member, that it was totally unnecessary, an assertion of considerable weight, as coming from one who was himself a keen sportsman. He feared that the gentlemen of Scotland who favoured the Bill, had not attended sufficiently to its object; to afford them, therefore, more time, he would move, as an amendment, "That the Bill be read this day three months."
 Mr. Wrottesley  thought that the clause ought to be repealed, as it had been introduced without any notice.
 General Gascoyne  bore testimony to the gallant behaviour of general Pakenham, who, when first struck, had advanced within thirty yards of the fort, which was the only difficulty which remained to be surmounted; he was then struck by a ball, and being about to mount a horse which was brought him, he was struck by another ball in the spine, which terminated his valuable life. He hoped there would not be a dissentient voice on the question.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said, that his objection to the Bill was not confined to those two clauses, but was extended to another, which he considered equally oppressive.
 609]
 Mr. J. P. Grant  wished to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer what resources he looked to for carrying on the war, which had escaped every other person's observation. He could not conceive it possible to carry on the war without a deficit beyond the war taxes of about 45 millions. The whole income of the country appeared, from the property-tax returns, to be only about 145 millions; and yet the country would be called on to pay 70 millions of taxes, with a deficit, after all, of 45 millions. If he was wrong, he would be set right with pleasure. Nothing he had heard during the discussions, had changed his opinion of the impolicy of this war; neither by eloquence, nor by the technical justice of it, deduced from Buonaparté's non-fulfilment of a treaty for which no security was taken, and which, no one could believe he would abide by, if his interest led the other way, had a justifiable case been made out in his mind. The only argument that could be urged was, that it was essential to our safety that Buonaparté should be deposed. It was the first time in the world that war was made for such an object. It was the first time that it was said in that House, that the character of any individual was ground for a war for our own safety, which must depend upon our own exertions.
 Mr. Grenfell  took this opportunity of asking, whether it was not now the practice to purchase light guineas for the purpose of being re-coined?
 Mr. Preston  thought that the House would be more nice than wise, if they were to legislate on such a subject.
 Mr. W. Dundas  opposed the principle of the Bill, as being excessively severe, arbitrary, and unnecessary.
 Mr. Wilberforce  relied with the fullest confidence on the feelings of his noble friend, in his endeavours to suppress that traffic—nothing could be more satisfactory than his uniform concurrence in the attainment of that object.
 Mr. Wilberforce  wished to ask the noble lord in the blue ribbon, whether any arrangements had been made with Louis 18, relative to the total suppression of the Slave-trade, in the event of success in the present war against Buonaparté?
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, that with regard to Dublin, to which a right hon. baronet had alluded, he apprehended it would not be very necessary to pass any law for prohibiting bathing in that city, as he understood the river Liffey, which flowed through it, was not of that pellucid nature which would afford many inducements to such amusements. He did not consider the antiquity of the practice of bathing in the Thames as an argument for its continuance. If this was once admitted, many other practices might obtain, which would be injurious to the peace of the metropolis, but which had been abandoned for years. It was only a few days since he dined with a gentleman who had shot snipes and woodcocks in St. Martin's-in-the-Fields. However correct that amusement might have been formerly, he did not consider that it ought to be permitted at present.
 Mr. Wilberforce  observed, that the Bill before the House would go to sanction the indecency frequently committed on the banks of the Thames, and would be a declaration of Parliament that it was expedient that persons should expose their naked bodies on the banks of the Thames.
 Sir George Warrender  stated, that several representations had been transmitted to him from many parts of Scotland, deprecating the proposed Bill, and declaring, that its effects would be totally different from what were expected. The measure was unknown to Scotland, ill suited to the manners and feelings of the people, and consequently injurious and oppressive. He therefore should oppose it.
 Sir J. Newport  said, if bathing was prohibited in the Thames, a similar law must be passed with reference to every other river in the United Kingdom, as it would be unjust to legislate for one place without extending the benefit of the same legislation to others. Thus the inhabitants of Dublin, Liverpool, Bristol, and other great towns must be subject to similar laws.
 Sir J. Newport  said, his object was to have some measure adopted which would prevent respectable tradesmen and others from being rendered subject to the system of billet, as was the case in this country.
 Sir J. Newport  hoped some regulation would be adopted to correct the system of billeting at present practised in Ireland, by which persons were liable to have the soldiery billeted upon them at the pleasure of the officers whose duty it was to provide quarters for the soldiers, without any regard to that fairness of distribution which ought at all times to be practised.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that from what he had heard, the present system of recruiting the militia, particularly in Ireland, was extremely injudicious, and conducive to a most lavish expense. He was informed, that bounties were given to recruits, who were then permitted to return home, under a promise of appearing again when required. He wished to know if such were the fact.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that there was nothing to prevent every one of them enlisting in different regiments, and receiving the bounty in each.
 Lord Palmerston  replied, that as the militia regiments were not as yet embodied, Government had been obliged to have recourse to the system mentioned by the right hon. baronet. The entire bounty was, however, not paid, the recruit received only a guinea, and the remainder being withheld, he expected most of them would appear again when called upon.
 Lord Palmerston  was not so well acquainted with the nature of the laws upon this subject in Ireland, as with those in this country; but if the right hon. baronet would point out any improvement which his knowledge might enable him to suggest, he should be happy to attend to it.
 Mr. Peel  said, that in his situation he could not be considered a competent judge of the adequacy of the salaries of judges. The proposed augmentation had not only the approbation of the present Lord Chancellor, but also of the late Lord Chancellor of Ireland.
 Mr. Peel  stated the grounds on which he proposed an increase of salary to the Irish Master of the Rolls. His present income was 3,500 l. l. l. l. l. l. 621] l. l.
 Mr. Abercrombie  hoped full opportunity would be given for considering this measure. He believed the Master of the Rolls in England held a situation inferior in income to that of the Master of the Rolls in Ireland; that he received only 4,000 l.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the income of the Master of the Rolls in England was 4,500 l.
  Mr. Rose  recommended the most ample deliberation previous to any legislative interference with the laws in question.
 Mr. Western  thought his motion had been in some degree misconceived. He had proposed no measure at all connected with the laws relating to the exportation of British wool; his object was specifically confined to the auction duty.
 Sir Robert Peel  called the attention of the House to the expediency of some legislative regulation, for the purpose of restricting the employment of young children in manufacturing labour. It was well known that a bad practice had prevailed of condemning children whose years and strength did not admit of it, to the drudgery of occupations often severe and sometimes unhealthy. What he was disposed to recommend was, a regulation that no children should be so employed Under the age of 10 years, either as apprentices or otherwise, and the duration of their labour should be limited to 12 hours and a half per diem, including the time for education and meals, which would leave 10 hours for laborious employment. The accounts he had recently seen, showed that it was not so much the hardship as the duration of the labour which had produced mischievous effects on the health of the rising generation. It was to be lamented, however, that the inspectors appointed under a late act had been very
 625]
 Mr. Peel  was in the sense of the House, if the hon. and learned gentleman had not expressly said that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland would next year come forward for an augmentation of his salary with the approbation of the Master of the Rolls.
 Mr. Whibread  asked if the right hon. gentleman considered that lord Manners was always to be Chancellor of Ireland, or that lord Eldon was always to be Lord Chancellor here? His hon. and learned friend could not be supposed to mean any particular lord chancellor.
 Mr. Rose  supported the motion.
 Mr. Abercrombie  thought that the House ought to be informed of the extent of duties which the Master of the Rolls in Ireland had to perform, before they consented to this increase.
 Mr. Western  moved, that the House should go into a committee, to take into consideration the different acts imposing duties
 623]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that a revision of this matter was desirable, but the present proposition might be dangerous. It might be advisable to try an experiment on a small scale, such as taking I instead of 5 percent. He agreed in the propriety of encouraging the growth of our own wool.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  having moved the order of the day, for the House to resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, upon the Bill "to make further regulations for the Registry of ships built in India,"
 Lord Binning  supported the measure. What, he asked, had the hon. gentlemen opposite proved? Merely that recourse had been occasionally had to the merchant-yards in the river Thames, but not that they ought to be always employed. It would be a monstrous proposition to maintain, that the navy of England should depend on a few ship-builders in the river. He contended, that ships built in India were entitled, by the Navigation Laws, to be received and registered in the ports of this country. Though he did not think that oak timber was so scarce as was represented, yet from all the reports made on the subject at different periods, it was clear that there was a necessity for husbanding our resources. The benefit of the new charter would not be obtained if the House did not agree to pass the present Bill.
 Mr. Marryat  thought, that if the case required it, they might import timber, but not ships—not the manufactured article.
 Mr. Horner  observed, that the former measures, and even the present Bill as far as he could understand its object, fell far short of what Parliament should do on the subject. The practice which was so prevalent of apprenticing parish children in distant manufactories, was as repugnant to humanity as any practice which had ever been suffered to exist by the negligence of the Legislature. These children were sent often one, two, or three hundred miles from their place of birth, separated for life from all their relations, and deprived of the aid and instruction which
 [626
 Mr. Horner  hoped the measure would not be acceded to without discussion. Year after year increases were made to the salaries of judges in Scotland and Ireland. The salary of Master of the Rolls was, at present, on a footing of equality, or nearly so, in Ireland and England. Now, he held them to be officers of a totally different rank, and not to be compared together. The Master of the Rolls in England was also an officer of state, and as such, was exposed to considerable expenses. The Master of the Rolls in Ireland had a larger salary than the work he had to perform entitled him to. He protested against the mention to the House of recommendations from judges in measures of this kind. He was not at all surprised that this increase of salary should have had the approbation of the Lord Chancellor. And when the right hon. gentleman should come down in another year with a proposal for augmenting the salary of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, he had no doubt that he would be authorized in like manner to state that such augmentation had also the approbation of the Master of the Rolls. He wished to
 [622
 Mr. Horner , said he spoke generally; he did not care whether it was lord chancellor Green or lord chancellor Manners who recommended the measure; all he meant was, that the opinions of judges respecting the increase of the salaries of other judges were no authorities, and ought not to be listened to by the House.
 Mr. F. Douglas  replied to the arguments of the last speaker, whose apprehensions from the enactment of this Bill he considered as altogether visionary. The hon. member appeared to him to have quite mistaken the authorities to which he had referred, with regard to the security of our Indian empire. That empire would be best secured to this country, by treating its inhabitants with justice—by allowing it to make use of its produce, and import its commodities on the fairest terms. Such was the object of this Bill, and therefore he should support it, being always willing to treat our colonies as friends rather than to deal with them as enemies, which seemed to be the import of the last speaker's observations.
 Mr. Philips  said, that the system of supplying the manufactories with parish, apprentices had been resorted to at a period when there was not a population in their vicinity to furnish the number of hands required; but a population having been, formed by this plan, the practice had latterly been greatly diminished. Some years ago he had paid great attention to this subject, and had had the satisfaction, of finding the situation of the children was much improved. The number of young hands employed was not so great as might be supposed. In one of the principal cotton manufactories in the island, he had found the total number of hands employed was 957, of which number he found there were 33 under ten years of age, 72 between ten and twelve, 140 between twelve and fourteen, and 712 above the age last mentioned. In other respects their situation was different from what had been understood. Upon the whole, he was glad the hon. baronet did not wish his Bill to pass in the present session, as he, for one, had not made up his mind on the subject, and wished for time and opportunity for making further inquiry.
 Mr. Holme Sumner  approved of the Bill,
 627]
 Mr. Holme Sumner  was surprised that the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not long since been applied to this important subject.
 Lord Lascelles  approved of the measure, although he did not think it would be as productive as seemed to be at first sight supposed. He recommended that it should be merely noticed this session, and resumed early in the ensuing one.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  said, that he fell it to be his duty to oppose the Bill in its present stage. The ship-building estaments on the banks of the Thames had for a long period furnished employment for from 3 to 4,000 mechanics. He apprehended it was the intention of Government to make such an arrangement, that those India-built ships already employed in the trade between the two countries might be admitted in British registry; but if it was intended that new ships of that class which had lately been furnished by India, might still be introduced into our commerce, the business of the establishments on the banks of the Thames was at an end. He then went into a series of calculations from documents before the House, to show the great importance of the building of ships engaged in the India trade to the shipwrights of this country. If the building of these ships was to be transferred from England to India, the great establishments on the banks of the Thames would be totally annihilated, and instead of furnishing employment for 3 or 4,000 men, he calculated they would not keep more than 3 or 400. He spoke at some length on the falling-off of the trade formerly carried on in the yards on the banks of the Thames, and reminded the House of the service rendered to the state by the 14 or 15 sail furnished from the private dock-yards of the Thames, when the combined fleets of France, Spain, and Holland, were opposed to the power of this country, before the battle of Copenhagen; and inquired what would have been the situation of England, if wanting this resource, it had been necessary to wait till such a force could be obtained from India. He insisted upon it, that it was the duty of Government to protect the interests of establishments to which the
 [628
 Mr. J. P. Grant  was of opinion, that the wool trade ought at least to be put on an equal footing with every other branch of trade. As an article of revenue, the auction duty on the sale of wool produced nothing, and could, therefore, be maintained only on some principle of real or supposed commercial footing. It stood before the House as a mere matter of
 [624
 Mr. Lockhart  understood that the late Master of the Rolls had not held his situation many years, and had not retired in ill health. Coming year after year for an increase of salary, had a strong tendency to make the judges dependent on the Crown. No doubt it was with Parliament to grant or refuse the addition; but still the Crown had the power of originating the measure; and he thought, therefore, that this practice ought very much to be guarded against. There was not the same ground for proposing an increase of salary now as formerly; the price of necessaries had very much fallen in Ireland.
 Mr. Marryatt  said, that the present Bill was calculated to give support to the people in the East Indies, at the expense of the most important interests of the shipbuilders of this country, the encouragement of whom was most essential to the support of the British navy. He could not see the reason why they should be indulged with so great a preference in comparison of what was enjoyed by our colonial possessions, which were bound to take our manufactures at our own price, and to send us exclusively in return their raw material. In the East Indies they were exempt from all these restrictions. Their country was open to the flags of different nations, and they had a right to buy as cheap as they could, and to sell their commodities for the very highest price they could obtain for them: and as they were not subjected to colonial restrictions, they were not entitled to more than colonial privileges. The price of oak was not more than double the price it was sixty years ago, and the use of it was greatly diminished; of course the demand for it must be less, for it was well known
 651] [652
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  said, the maxim that this country ought to endeavour to be independent, as much as possible, of foreign supply, seemed altogether to be lost sight of in the case of wool; for the interest of the grower was in every case sacrificed to that of the manufacture and manufacturer. It had never yet been attempted to bring any wool to auction, and therefore the revenue could not be said to suffer any thing from this measure. The landed interest was at present in great distress—the Corn Laws had not remedied the evil, which was spreading every hour.
 Mr. Wallace  rose. He said he had no difficulty in answering the questions of the hon. alderman, and stating, that it was intended that the registry should be confirmed to all ships built within our Indian possessions, and employed in the trade between the United Kingdom and India, which had already received it; and that it was not intended that ships of the same description, employed in the East-India Company's trade, should be excluded from the benefits of the present Bill. Having said this, he entered upon the consideration of the measure itself, and assured the House that, if he entertained the same apprehensions of the consequences to be expected from it which had been stated by the opponents of the measure; if he believed that a serious injury was to be inflicted by it on the British ship-builder, or that the construction of our large ships was to be transferred to so distant a branch of the empire, he should be as unwilling to give his support to its further progress as the hon. gentleman who preceded him. Nothing, he admitted, would be more impolitic; but so far from feeling this danger, he could see in the measure before them no encouragement afforded to the East-India ship-building beyond that which was essential, as well to the security of our valuable possessions in the East as to the
 629] [630 631] [632 633] [634 635] l., l, l. [636 637] l. l., l. [638 639] [640 641] [642 643] [644 645] [646 l. s. l. s. 647] l. l. [648 649] [650
 Mr. Davies Giddy  was anxious to see the proper degree of encouragement applied to the growth of wool, although he was aware that the cotton trade must necessarily interfere with it. It was to be regretted that we had no public wool-market, and that the laws threw so many obstacles in the way of the transmit and coasting trade.
 Mr. W. Smith  expressed his cordial approbation of the Bill. He considered the hon. baronet the fittest person to bring the subject forward, and was glad it had fallen into such good hands. He was only sorry it had not been introduced earlier in the session, and hoped even now, it might be passed into a law before the recess. The bringing of it in alone, he was of opinion would do some good; and the notice that children employed under eight or ten years of age, would not be considered as permanently engaged, would of itself in some degree correct the evil.
 Sir Charles Monck  opposed the Bill. He had hoped, from the full consideration which this measure had undergone, that his Majesty's ministers would have seen the expediency of abandoning it altogether, as a measure inconsistent with those principles of national advantage which it was our duty to uphold.
 Sir H. Parnell  approved of the object of the motion, but recommended the With drawing of it for the present.
 Mr. Peel,  in bringing forward the proposition now under consideration, had
 657] l. l.
 Mr. Peel  said, that in the last session an Act was passed, intituled "An Act for the further prevention of the sale or brokerage of offices," in which the offices of Six-clerks were recognized as being saleable.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  felt it painful to object to a grant proposed for the remuneration of a person holding a judicial situation, but he could not refrain from saying that the reasons given for the large increase of income now called for, were not such as ought to be satisfactory to the House.
 Sir J. Stewart  spoke in favour of the Report.
 Mr. Shaw  of Dublin spoke in favour of the resolution, and in flattering terms of the manner in which the present Master of the Rolls in Ireland performed the functions of his office.
 Mr. Peel  was not aware that any vacancy in the Six-clerks Office had occurred, since the appointment of the present Master of the Rolls, but he believed it had invariably been the practice of the person holding that situation to make a profit of them. Besides the purchase-money, a fee had usually been paid to the Master of the Rolls, which fee would now no longer form a part of the emoluments of that individual.
 Mr. Baring  thought it was impossible the estates could be managed so economically as they ought, to be, and therefore was of opinion it might be better to sell them, and place the money in the funds.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to propose the schedule of Stamp-duties of which he had given notice. He observed, that the subjects on which the additional Stamp-duties were to be imposed, were law duties and newspapers. The first of these subjects, the taxation of law proceedings, was one on which too much attention could not be bestowed. He had submitted the present schedule to several very experienced persons in the profession of the law; and since the schedule had been before produced, there were many alterations made in it which would render it less objectionable. One alteration was, that the increased duties were not made progressive on the size of the instrument stamped, but that a certain increase of duty on each proceeding should take place. An objection also had been started against the schedule, which was, that the increase of the duties would
 661] l., s. l., l. d. d.
 Mr. Horner  thought, if the Irish Master of the Rolls had been in the habit of receiving money for the Six-clerks Offices, he had been guilty of a gross breach of the law, and of a misdemeanor for which he might have been impeached. It might be sanctioned by the Act passed at the close of the last session, when very few members were present, and the subject could not be fully examined; but with the exception of the provisions of that Act, such conduct had no justification in law.
 Mr. Horner  said, that the proposed increase of the income of the Irish Master of the Rolls still appeared to him to be a most objectionable grant. The Master of the Rolls in Ireland ought not to have his salary placed on the same footing with that of the Master of the Rolls in England, as the latter had much more business brought before him, and had besides higher duties to perform. The proposed augmentation of the income of the Irish Master of the Rolls would make it nearly equal to that of the same officer in this country, as it went to raise it to 4,300 l. l.
 Mr. Croker  said, that the estates had been exceedingly well managed, and it could not have been the interest of the receivers that they should be otherwise, as the expenses incurred on the lands could not be the means of putting a single farthing into their pockets. He could not say that they had been regulated with the same economy with which a private gentleman might manage his own estate; but within the last ten years their produce had been doubled. In the year 1805 the rental of them was 18,000 l. l.
 Mr. Croker  stated the receivers to be paid by a per-centage on what they collected, and it was thought two would be better than one, as each might be supposed in some measure to be a check on the other.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  thought he had the authority of Parliament itself for saying, that it had never intended the salaries of the Masters of the Rolls in England and Ireland to be placed on the same footing; as when the office of Master of the Rolls in Ireland was created, that difference was established between the emoluments of the two situations which existed at present. What the House had to consider was, whether the salary of the Irish Master of the Rolls was sufficient to support the dignity of his situation, and unless proved to be inadequate, no increase ought to be sanctioned. The repeated applications of this nature made to the House ought to be strictly investigated.
 Mr. Lockhart,  by desire of his hon. and learned friend, (Mr. Serjeant Best,) begged leave to move, that the second reading of the Insolvent Debtors' Amendment Bill should be postponed to that day three months. He observed, that his hon. and learned friend took this course, with the view, not of abandoning the measure altogether, but of bringing it forward in the next session in such a form as he trusted would be in accordance with the general feelings of the House. With respect to the Bill now in existence, he had only to observe, that every day's experience showed how much it required amendment.
 Mr. Long  said the question whether or not it would be wise to sell them, and place the money in the funds, was not now before the House. This, however, they had before them—that in 1805, they produced but 18,000 l. l.
 Sir C. Monck  opposed the tax on newspapers, and thought there could not be a time more ill chosen to deny the public information on the state of public events in which they were so deeply interested.
 Sir Charles Monck,  without imputing any improper conduct to those who had the management of the estates in Northumberland, belonging to Greenwich Hospital, (which estates, from his own observation, he could say, were in many respects managed exceedingly well,) thought it desirable that the House should be put in
 659]
 Sir Frederick Flood,  although in general disposed to disapprove of measures which went to charge Ireland with additional incumbrances, yet from the nature of the present proposition, and a conviction of its justice, he should give it his support.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  understood the estates were at present managed by two receivers, who were paid 1,500 l. [660
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he did not object to the lax on newspapers on account of the effect it would have upon the proprietors; but because it would diminish the circulation of information, he should oppose that part of the Resolution. As to the addition of sixpence on advertisements, he did not object to it. He understood the charge for the insertion of advertisements in the London papers was very great, and the delay considerable; for though a laudable practice existed at the offices of inserting advertisements by rotation, yet a practice as much to be reprobated existed, that advertisements were inserted out of their rotation on the payment of an additional sum. At the last general election, when he had had occasion to advertise a circular to the freemen of the town which he represented, resident in London, he had selected four London papers for that purpose, and was surprised to find the expense for the insersion of the advertisement twice in four papers. He was informed, on examining the accounts, that it was the custom to charge twice as much for advertisements at the time of a general election; a rule which did not exist, he believed, with the country papers. It was also remarkable, that there was a difference in these charges. The papers were two evening and two morning papers—the Morning Chronicle, the Morning Post, the Globe, and the Courier; in the Morning Chronicle he was charged 10 guineas, in the Morning Post 12 guineas, in the Globe 12 guineas, and in She Courier 16 guineas. This variety seemed singular to him, and it was not the less singular that those papers who adhered to the principles of the Chancellor of the Exchequer charged most for their advertisements. As the duty bore so small a proportion to the charge on advertisements, he should not oppose it.
 Sir S. Romilly  raised no objection on the character of the individual holding the situation of Master of the Rolls for Ireland, but he did not consider the proposed addition to his income to be necessary as compensation for the disposal of the Six-clerks Offices being withdrawn from him. In lord Kenyon's time those offices were never sold. The sale of them, he believed, though established by usage, was not sanctioned by law.
 Sir J. Newport  did not think it necessary for the salary of the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, to be placed on the same footing with that of the Master of the Rolls in England. He wished time to be given for making further inquiries on the subject, and thought it might be well to defer bringing in the Bill till the next session.
 Sir J. Newport  felt a radical objection to the tax upon newspapers; it was of the
 [662 663]
 Mr. Rose , in pursuance of his motion, rose to call the attention of the House to the mendicity of the metropolis. He believed as accurate information had been obtained on that subject as it would well admit of. A Mr. Martin, a respectable gentleman in this neighbourhood, and well known to many members of this House, had, with the greatest industry, compiled an account of the numbers and description of people in a medicant state in the metropolis and its vicinity, an account which he was ready to submit to the House. According to this account there were, on the whole, somewhat more than 15,000 persons in the metropolis and its immediate neighbourhood who subsisted by begging. They were divided in this manner. The
 687] s. l. s. s. l. [688 689] l.
 Mr. Peel  was doubtful whether it would be politic to extend an establishment like the House of Industry in Dublin to this country. It cost 50,000 l.
 Mr. Rose  said, it was desirable that the respective parishes should take care of their own poor. Nobody was more averse than himself to remove any person while he could maintain himself; and he had first introduced a law to that effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to detain the House but a very few moments; but he could not help bearing testimony to the assiduity and diligence of the gentleman who had principally conducted the plan of the mendicity inquiry, first under the auspices of lord Pelham, and subsequently under those of lord Sid mouth. He would not entertain too sanguine hopes of an entire remedy being provided for the evil; but be that as it might, he thought it a subject highly deserving of such consideration, as was doe to the benevolence of the individual who had conducted it, and that the mass of information which he knew to have been already collected, would be of great use to the committee which should be appointed to consider the subject.
 Mr. Calvert  begged leave to state, that he did not believe either petition proceeded from the inhabitants of Southwark.
 Mr. Grant  thought the hon. gentleman
 [694 l. l. s.; l. l. 695]
 Mr. Forbes  spoke a few words against the clause.
 Mr. Barclay  presented two petitions against the Thames Bathing Bill: the one from the watermen that ply upon the Thames, and the other from the inhabitants and householders on the banks of the river. He thought that something should be done to prevent the indecencies which were now witnessed, and which otherwise would extend to a greater degree. He defended the principle of these petitions. He had heart much of the rights of man, and lately of the rights of Scotch poachets: he hoped he should not hear of the right of indecent exposure. The remedy by action at law was slow and expensive.
 Mr. Harvey  proposed a clause, the object of which was to prevent persons from bathing in the River Thames in particular places; by imposing a penalty, recoverable before a magistrate, of not less than 5 s., s. s.
 Mr. Harvey  had likewise the pleasure of living on the banks of the Thames, and he could not help saying that it was almost impossible for any decent person to live in such a situation from the number of persons undressing themselves, and exposing their naked bodies to view.
 Mr. Hammersley  thought that an establishment on the same plan as the House of Industry in Dublin might be serviceable in this country, as it would give an opportunity at once to refer all mendicants to a certain place.
 Mr. Brogden  brought up the Report of the Committee of Ways and Means. On the resolution for imposing a duty of an additional halfpenny on newspapers being read,
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  observed, that the surveyors of the India Company exercised the right of survey as to the materials of the ships built for them in the river Thames, as strictly as it was exercised on the part of the royal navy. The great increase in the price of ship-building had not proceeded from any exorbitant demands on the part of the ship-builders, but from the great price to which foreign timber had been raised, from our being excluded from the trade of the Continent. As to the price of labour, the war had raised the value of a man's labour, in the same proportion that other articles were raised.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought that if mendicants were prevented from begging, many of them would resort to more dangerous practices. They would spread into the country, would avoid well-regulated towns,
 [690
 Mr. Marryatt  renewed his opposition to the Bill. It had been said by an hon. member (Mr. C. Grant) on a former day, when he (Mr. Marryatt) had announced his intention to offer a clause for restricting the operation of this Bill, that it might as well be attempted to take from the East India Company their charter, as to prohibit them from employing India-built ships. He would state what had been advanced on this subject by that hon. member, and other directors of the East India Company on a former occasion, and leave him to answer his own arguments as he could. He then quoted the report of a committee of the East India Directors, dated January 27, 1801, in which the admission of India ships into a format participation in the commerce and navigation between Britain and India was viewed with the most serious apprehension. In another part of the same Report such a line of conduct was "deprecated as tending to supersede the Company's privileges, and open the way to what all agreed ought to be prevented—the colonization of Europeans in India." It was further stated "to involve principles and effects dangerous to the interests both of the Company and of the nation, to lead to the pouring of Europeans of the lower sort into India, and thus, by lessening that respect entertained for the British character, which had hitherto contributed to maintain our ascendancy in the East, to disturb and shake our Government there." In a second Report, the plan of the Governor-general respecting India ships, was
 693]
 Mr. Marryatt , in explanation, said, that his clause did not at all respect the ships employed in the trade between India and this country, but had only reference to the trade with China, the monopoly of which was allowed to be a great advantage to the Company.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  had lived for twenty-seven years on the banks of the Thames, and had never perceived any acts of indecency. Some time he had not seen six persons bathing in the course of twelve months. Were we worse than our ancestors? As a magistrate he did not recol-
 691]
 Mr. P. Moore  said, that there ought to be a fair and open competition with regard to ship-building, and opposed the clause.
 Mr. Wallace  proposed to introduce a clause to substitute 350 tons to 100. As the Bill stood, no ship under 100 tons was to obtain a registry: he found that ships of that tonnage were not employed in the East India trade, and therefore wished to alter the number to 350.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  approved of Mr. Martin's plan. Of the tickets given to paupers, four out of five were never brought to the office, as the mendicants dreaded the inquiries which would be made. If that institution were more known and further extended, he thought it would materially tend to check and lessen the number of beggars. He alluded to the soldiers who pretended to have been blinded by the ophthalmia in Egypt, and who exposed themselves in a disgusting manner in the streets.
 Sir John Newport  suggested the propriety of reducing this duty to its original state. He was quite sure that the quantum of revenue the increase would produce, would in no respect compensate the public for the loss which they would sustain by the impediments which would be thrown in the way of receiving that information which at this particular period was of such general importance. The right hon. baronet then moved an amendment by substituting three-pence halfpenny in the room of four-pence.
 Sir J. Newport  preferred the plan of work-houses like those in existence at Cork, and other places, in which a previous examination took place before paupers were admitted. To extend an establishment in which no inquiry was allowed, would merely extend beggary.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  thought, that magistrates too often confounded judicial with ministerial functions. He knew the individuals alluded to, and was convinced of the purity of their intentions. The mistake, however, was a most mischievous one, and he hoped this mention of it in the House would call the attention of magistrates to the subject. 697]
 Mr. Ward  then entered on the statement of the Ordnance Estimates. The Ordinary estimate for that service amounted to 1,141,045 l s d l l s l l l s d l s d l s d l l l l s d
 Mr. Bennet , remarking on the immense expenses for repairing and building fortifications and other works, lamented that they should be incurred in executing the plans of a Board, the members of which had never seen any foreign service.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that he had not mentioned any particular person, nor was he by any means willing to deny the talents and scientific knowledge of the Inspector-general; but he could not assent to the opinion expressed by the hon. gentleman, of the inutility of practical knowledge.
 Mr. Baring  said, that Cassini's maps had not been destroyed: he had, in his possession, a very good set of them. He considered it truly ridiculous to apprehend any danger from the publication of the remainder of the British survey, after the enemy were placed in possession of all the information they could possibly want, the maritime counties having been already published. The hon. gentleman imagined, that there was nothing connected with, those estimates, to which they could object, except the grant which respected maps. There was, however, a sum of 240,000 l
 Mr. Bennet  expressed a similar wish; at the same time observing, that there was something in the course pursued by the hon. gentleman that very naturally excited the notice of his hon. friend.
 Mr. Baring  wished to know whether that provision which was ordered by the law of 1782, had in fact been inserted in the Ordnance Contracts?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered, that it had by inadvertence been omitted, as he had found on inquiry.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, a copy of the following
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, a Copy of the following
 Lord Castlereagh  also presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following
 Mr. Wilbraham Bootle  had no doubt, on further inquiry, that the abuses would be discovered.
 Mr. H. Martin  asked on what ground the addition of 1,500 l
 Mr. H. Martin  observed, that, he hoped the increase of expence would turn out to be a saving in other instances; but since the year 1810, when accounts of the increase of salaries had first been presented to the House, there had been an increase
 707] l
 Mr. Martin  wished to know on the subject of a pension to colonel Congreve, which he should at some future time bring before the House in a specific form, whether there was any precedent for the manner in which that pension had originated, viz. by the intimation of the Royal pleasure to the Master-general? He should say nothing at present of the grounds of that pension, but he merely wished to know as to the form, which had been also followed in the case of the pension to colonel Shrapnell.
 Mr. Brogden  was desirous that the conversation should cease.
 Mr. Brogden.  —I think there has been too much of personal attack and of per-
 705]
 Mr. R. Ward  said, when he stated that he did not repent any words he had uttered, it was with reference to a public subject, and to his conduct on that particular subject: and he begged leave to disclaim any wish to treat the gentleman (whose private character he highly esteemed) with disrespect.
 Mr. Ward  began to address the committee, and was observing, that he did not repent any expression he had made use of, in answering the hon. gentleman opposite—when he was interrupted by
 Mr. R. Ward  observed, that the hon. gentleman had, as his custom, was, mixed up a great number of matters in his speech, which had nothing to do with the question before the House. In every speech he made, the hon. gentleman was in the habit of indulging in personal allusion and attack. With all the respect he felt for the hon. gentleman out of the House, he must inform him that those attacks, whether arising from the feebleness of the public grounds on which he opposed ministers, or arising from rashness of character or impetuosity of temper, were perfectly unimportant to him, and were heard with the utmost indifference. Knowing that the hon. gentleman was in the habit of making attacks on all sides—recollecting how egregiously he had failed in all his attempts during the present session, he almost felicitated himself on becoming the object of his animadversion on this occasion. [Here Mr. Whitbread laughed.] It was very well to endeavour to laugh it off, but that was not the way to disprove his statement. The hon. gentleman, when he was absolutely ignorant of what was passing in the world, during the absence of his noble friend (lord Castlereagh), came down to the House, and attempted to hold him out to the public as a person unworthy of their confidence; but, when dared to proceed, he retired, and refused to bring forward any specific question, on which the sentiments of the House, with respect to the conduct of his noble friend, could be fairly manifested. At the commencement of the session he considered him the best friend Government ever had, and he now continued of the same opinion. What had he done on the present occasion? This being a vote for a very large
 [702 l
 Mr. R. Ward  said, that as soon as the accounts were made out they would be presented. They had been voted but ten days. He could certainly state, that no member of parliament had entered into a contract With the Ordnance.
 Mr. R. Ward  meant to have designated him as the "Honourable Gentleman." He did not repent a single word he had said; but, in making this observation, he intended nothing personal.
 Mr. R. Ward  said, that with respect to the course he might feel it necessary to adopt, he should always follow his own discretion. He then proceeded to defend himself from the charge of having asserted, that gentlemen were not competent to criticise military works, because they were not military persons. He never stated any such tiling. He merely observed, when gentlemen were censuring military works, in general terms—calling this ridiculous, and that preposterous—that those who understood the subject better, thought otherwise. Even though a civilian, he conceived he was quite competent to make this remark.
 Mr. Ward  acknowledged that no particular name had been mentioned, but, however, the persons alluded to were no less understood. A great injustice had been done to an officer of distinguished merit, whose valuable life had been devoted to the service of his country. He challenged the hon. gentleman, or any of his parliamentary friends, to rival the knowledge of the Inspector-general. He stated, that maps had been drawn out of the several counties in England; which, however, Government did not deem it prudent to publish at present, lest they might fall into the bands of the enemy: and in justification of this reserve, he adduced the example of Buonaparté, whom he designated as the ablest captain in the world—and who, threatened with invasion by the Allies, destroyed Cassini's maps of France, lest the enemy might thence obtain useful information. And to show how highly the maps of this country were prized by Buonaparté, he mentioned that when retiring to Elba, he was seen particularly careful of a large box, which was supposed by many to contain some valuable treasure; but on opening it, nothing was found but some maps of the sea-coast of England.
 Mr. R. Ward  said, that the attack of the hon. gentleman, who was so fond of making charges, did not affect him.
 Mr. R. Ward  eulogized the great abilities and science of the Inspector-general of Fortifications and of the members of the Board; and contended, that a man of science, who had never quitted his library,
 [698
 Mr. R. Ward  said, the form of proceeding in the case of these two pensions was the same which had always been followed from time immemorial on the grant of any pension or allowance in this department, viz. by an intimation of the Royal pleasure.
 Mr. R. Ward  said, the increase of allowance was made to the servants of the public in the Ordnance Department in proportion to their length of service, on certificates of good behaviour. The clerks were paid less in the Ordnance Department for the same service than in any other.
 Mr. R. Ward  answered, that formerly there were two secretaries, but that in 1813 the experiment had been tried of performing the service by one, which had succeeded. The two secretaries had staff appointments in addition to their salaries, and received fees on warrants. The staff appointments were now taken away, and the fees were paid to the account of' the department; so that instead of an increase of expenditure, the public had in fact saved between 14 and 1500 l
 Mr. Whitbread.  —I brought no charge against the hon. gentleman. All I said was, that a person who was educated as a civilian, could not be more capable of judging of military matters than members of parliament in general were.
 Mr. Whitbread  admired the happy discretion exercised by his Majesty's ministers, in withholding the maps of Bedfordshire, and Buckinghamshire, and other interior counties, while it was acknowledged that maps of the maritime districts were in possession of the enemy. [Hear!] But there was one expression in the speech of the hon. gentleman, which surprised him not a little. He alluded to his having called Buonaparté the ablest captain in the world. This was an acknowledgment he had by no means expected at the present moment from a gentleman filling an official situation in this country. If such an opinion had fallen from any one on his side of the House, censure would be incessant in its attacks, and it would have been received with an up-
 699] [700 701]
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the hon. gentleman's profession of unrepentance was quite unnecessary, as he had not been called on to repent. For his own part, he should not desist from observations on those estimates in future; and so far the hon. gentleman, who was desirous of being attacked, would, from the manner in which
 [706
 Mr. Whitbread  observed, that the hon. gentleman's description of a personal attack was extremely curious. He (Mr. Whitbread) was stated to be in the habit of striking at random—of hitting every one about him; and this the hon. gentleman denominated a personal attack. The hon. gentleman accused him with having taken a direct aim, which he afterwards explained as being nothing more than a random shot. With respect to what passed in the early part of the session, the Journals of the House, and the debates on the different questions he had introduced, would best prove whether he had failed, and whether he had acted in complete ignorance of the subjects he had brought under consideration. Of this, however, he was sure, that the hon. gentleman had shown himself quite ignorant of the details of the business of the House, or he never would have hazarded the remarks he had made on this particular point. The hon. gentleman seemed to argue, that he had a better right to understand the qualifications of certain public servants, than gentlemen who were not connected with ministers. As he (Mr. Whitbread) had not, like the hon. gentleman, taken office, there was little doubt that the hon. gentleman was possessed of more information on this point, than he could pretend to. But that information, he conceived, ought to be stated to the House when it was called for. He wished to make no observation that was not founded in good humour and sincerity; and, however he might respect the hon. gentleman, he was really of opinion, that persons might be found more fit to fill the situation he at present held, than he was.
 Mr. Whitbread , who said, it had never occurred to him, that any thing calling for repentance had happened in the course of the evening. But, when the hon. gentleman alluded to what had previously passed, and stated, that he did not repent it, he (Mr. Whitbread) thought it right to call for an explanation of the hon. gentleman's expression.—(Loud cries of "Chair!")
 Mr. Whitbread , —There is a word omitted, which, situated as I am before the committee, ought, I think, to have been particularly used. The hon. gentleman speaks of me, as the "Gentleman," not the "Honourable Gentleman." This, I take to be unparliamentary.
 Mr. Whitbread.  —The attack I conceived to be parliamentary; and the manner in which it was met I thought also to be parliamentary. But the manner in which the hon. gentleman has alluded to it, I look upon to be unparliamentary, and I object to it.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  said, that when it was originally determined to form an accurate survey of this country and of France, it was intended for the benefit of the two nations; artists were selected from each, and degrees were measured on both sides of the water. No person thought of danger, until it was too late to think of preventing it. Surveys of Kent, Sussex, Essex, and a great part of Dorsetshire, were published under the administration of the duke of Richmond. One of two Conclusions must, in the present instance, be come to. Either the maps ought to be published, with a view to that public benefit which was originally intended, or the project ought to be abandoned altogether, if danger were apprehended from it. How could Government think of proceeding with so expensive an undertaking, and, at the same time, refuse to let the public participate in the benefit of it? The whole of the argument in favour of the concealment of those copper-plates, was uncongenial with English feeling, and reminded him of the mean jealousy of the Chinese and Spaniards.
 Mr. D. Giddy  said, that if the probability of danger from the publication of those maps could be clearly shown, he certainly thought it would be right to refuse them. But he saw no reason to apprehend any disadvantage whatever. Indeed, he understood, that a set of maps had been published in France, which (although the elevations were not marked on them) could very easily be filled up, so as to answer every practical military purpose. He had stated, last session, that if ministers persevered in refusing those maps, he should make a motion on the subject; but, as it might have been considered a hostile measure, he had abstained from it. The hon. gentleman had stated to the House, that it was not expedient to give any farther information on this subject; but if some good reasons were not given in the next session, for withholding those maps, he should feel it his duty to bring the matter under the consideration of the House. In that part of the country (Cornwall) with which he was particularly connected, a Geological Society had been recently established;
 [704
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he thought the Bill would be the means of doing much good. The greatest abuses arose from the practice of binding children at a great distance from their relatives. There was a clause in the present Bill which might have very salutary effects, he meant that which appointed the indenture to be signed by the magistrates of the parish from which the child came, and that to which it was taken. He hoped that magistrates would conscientiously attend to their duty, and inquire not only into the mariner in which the child was bound, but respecting the person to whom it was bound, as they were empowered to do; that they would consider themselves as in the situation of fathers to those unfortunate children. He was astonished at the fact which had come out in the course of the inquiries which this Bill had given rise to, that magistrates often signed indentures blank, without knowing any thing of the masters, and that it frequently happened that there was no other formal party to the indenture but the magistrate; and magistrates of the county of Surrey were expressly named as having acted in this manner. He hoped the law in this respect would be attended to, for it was no use to pass laws if they were not carried, into execution.
 Sir J. Newport  asked why the accounts of Ordnance Contracts, which had been ordered, were not laid before the House. He was well informed that a provision which had been ordered by the law of 1782, to be inserted in all contracts with. Government, viz. that no member of that House should participate in the profits, had not been inserted in those contracts. He had also very good information, that in a contract with another Board, as appeared by the answer to a bill of discovery, two members of the House had actually participated. A very good provision had been inserted in the Ordnance Contracts, viz. that no clerk of the office should participate; but this was no justification of the omission of that which the law required.
 Mr. Baring  was convinced that whatever the hon. baronet had had to do with the Orphans' Fund, had, like every other transaction of his life, been conducted with the strictest honour. But he could not let the subject pass without again entering his protest against the wanton and unnecessary expenditure of money on the building of the new Post-office. There was no doubt that it was intended to prolong the duty upon coals, in order to replenish the Orphans' Fund, and make up for the money to be taken from it. The city of London imposed these duties not only upon the city of Westminster, but also on the country for thirty or forty miles round; and this tax, altogether objectionable, was laid upon people who had no interest in the improvements to which it was applied. The hon. gentleman then repeated the objections be had made against the Bill in its different stages. It seemed as if the Treasury overflowed with money, and that Government was looking about to see how it could be expended. Something between 80,000 l l l
 Mr. Gordon  observed, that there was no clause in the Bill to insure the competition of architects in preparing estimates.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was for the Treasury to procure a plan by competition between the architects, but he did not intend to propose the insertion of a clause to that effect in the Bill. Before Parliament met again, it might be in the power of the Government to select the plan and submit it to the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it more manly to bring forward the expenses at once. It was not to be understood, that the whole of the money would be wanted immediately, but power was given to provide for the charges, as they should be required from time to time.
 Mr. Gordon  could not understand that it was absolutely necessary to build a new Post-office this year, as the business had been hitherto conducted with so much ability. He trusted, therefore, that his hon. friend would press a division on this clause.
 Lord Castlereagh , in rising, pursuant to the notice he had given, s0aid, he was desirous of carrying the feelings of the committee back to that period at which the independence of Holland was restored. At that auspicious moment he was sure but one sentiment pervaded the country, and nothing could have been less congenial with it, than for ministers to have exercised the rights of war with respect to the colonies of Holland, after the deliverance of that country from the hands of the enemy. It would have been in opposition to the feelings of the nation to have treated Holland in any other respect than as a country with which it was our object to maintain the most friendly relations; and, much as he should have lamented if an amicable arrangement could not have been made by which England could retain the Cape of Good Hope, which was so important to this country from its connexion with our territories in the East, and reluctant as he should have been to have lost any opportunity of placing so large a mass of British property as was contained in the islands of Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo, permanently under the protection of the Crown of England; much as he should have regretted such important cessions, still would he have been content to forego all the benefits of retaining them, rather than have failed to act with friendly liberality towards Holland. It ought not to be disguised, that though France might have overrun Holland from the lust of conquest, much of the misery which had fallen on that unfortunate country, had been inflicted on account of the attachment it had cherished for England. This feeling, so difficult to extinguish, has never ceased to manifest itself; and it
 [744 745] [746 747] l l
 Lord Castlereagh  stated some issues to have been made by the minor states, of Exchequer-bills, or something of that sort, in consequence of the arrangement to which they were parties. The Emperor of Russia had indeed made the discharge of the debt due to Holland a point of honour; but the payments had been suspended while Holland was essentially French.
 Lord Castlereagh  controverted this statement, and showed the right hon. gentleman that in no way could it be proved that the charges referred to would exceed 5,000,000 l
 Lord Castlereagh  stated, that the reason why the Treaties had not been brought down before, was, that they were not then in a proper shape: they were, even now, imperfect. The Convention between the emperor of Russia and the king of the Netherlands, which alone gave them validity, had not been concluded until the l9th of May last. He maintained, that to fortify the places in Belgium was not a Dutch object merely, but one which interested all Europe, and this country in particular, and that Holland ought not to be allowed to exhaust her resources by incurring expenses beyond her strength. If England alone had conquered the Netherlands, then it would have been fair and just in her to exchange them for the Dutch colonies, and to pay no other price. But that was not the case: she had no right to dispose of Belgium as she pleased, as it was as much in the power of the Allied Sovereigns as in hers. With respect to the island of Banca, he could not charge his memory with the manner in which we had acquired it; but he had no doubt our title to its possession would be found a good one.
 Mr. Forbes  believed that the rajah of Banca had been forced to enter into an improvident contract for tin by the Dutch government: that he had assisted us in taking Java, but that when after the success of that enterprise, our commander had insisted on his fulfilling the contract entered into with the Dutch government, he had resisted it. The consequence was, that we had sent an army against him and taken possession of his territories. This, the was convinced, was the original cause of his losing Banca. As to his being deposed afterwards, he could say nothing.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that it was wholly inconsistent with the practice of Parliament, and indeed with the established system of the constitution, that treaties should be laid upon the table pending negotiations, and, on that account, that which related to the question now before the House had been delayed. Undoubtedly his hon. friend possessed a very enlarged mind, but he had a singular facility in contracting it to the narrowest view of the question; thus, while he painted to the House so strongly the inconveniencies that might result from the payment of this money, he forgot entirely to consider the alternative, of what might be the consequences if the demand were not discharged: while he was censuring the subsidies that during the late war had been paid to our Allies, he neglected to notice the brilliant events that it had produced, and the full equivalent that Great Britain had derived for these sacrifices.
 Mr. Baring  contended, that not the slightest foundation had yet been laid for the proposition of the noble lord; he conceived that it was quite irregular for Parliament to be called upon to give its sanction to a treaty before it had been ratified by the foreign power with whom it was made. There seemed neither reason nor justice in calling upon Great Britain to make good this debt to Holland; and the probability appeared to be, that while the Sovereigns were squabbling at Vienna for pieces of territory, the noble lord, to restore harmony, had thrown in the money of Great Britain, without reference either to the amount, or the benefits it was likely to produce. It would doubtless be replied, that the value of the Dutch colonies was great; but the truth was, that the island of Guadaloupe alone was worth infinitely more than all the Dutch possessions in the West Indies united. [Lord Castereagh shook his head.] If the noble lord ventured to contradict this assertion, it would only show that he really knew nothing about the subject. He doubted even whether it would have been politic to have accepted these colonies from the Dutch. The Cape of Good Hope could be of no use to us, Mauritius and St. Helena being in our hands; the only object which was desirable was to keep the Cape of Good Hope out of hostile hands: but in the hands of the Dutch, our allies, it would be safe; so that the only question was, who should bear the expense? There was one reason, to be sure, why we should bear it—which was, that we had a governor there, in the receipt of 20,000 l [754
 Mr. Baring  observed, that the question had been put on a better footing by the abandonment of the allegation that the purchase of the colonies was the real ground for the vote. But still he thought that the arrangement was not justified on any principle of British policy. Our interest was, that some great Continental Power should hold the Netherlands, which might be able to protect them against France; but if no such power would take them, we should not at any rate have paid other Powers for the transfer of them to Holland. [Cries of 'Question!'].
 Mr. Forbes  objected to the transfer of the island of Banca, but considered the cession of the Cape of Good Hope as most advantageous to this country.
 Lord Castlereagh  then moved, that 1,000,000 l
 Mr. Bathurst  thought that too narrow a view had been taken by the opposers of the vote, as they had not considered the consequences which might have resulted, if any member of the alliance had withdrawn itself during the last war, or thrown, itself into the opposite scale. When an hon. member had said it was to supply the deficiencies in the spoil that we had stepped forward, why had he closed his eyes to the Low Countries, which was obviously an object for the annexation of which to Holland this country should make some sacrifices? By the Treaty of Paris, all that was decided as to the Netherlands was, that they should not belong to Trance. Though from what he had heard, he was not disposed to rank the Dutch colonies so low, in comparison with Guadaloupe, as the hon. member who spoke last; it was not on the ground of their absolute value that this country had retained them, but because so many British subjects, and so much British capital had been engaged. The fortification of the frontiers of the Low Countries was the only means by which that country could be made secure, and consequently of any advantage to this country; and as this object could not be accomplished for less than eight or ten millions, of which sum the revenue of Holland was not in a state to supply the whole, was not our aid justified? It had been proved by experience that it was not secure in the hands, of the Dutch; and it was therefore better, even with a view to economy, that we
 755]
 Mr. Sumner  maintained, that a progressive vote would manifest a due and proper attention to the expenses of the country, under existing circumstances. It would show a wish on the part of Government to reduce the expenditure as much as possible.
 Mr. Sumner  said, that he always suspected, and still did suspect, that there was some abominable job lurking in the back ground. When an area was purchased so much larger than the necessities of a post-office required, he did suppose that the object was to build elegant Houses for the persons employed in the Post-office. When he endeavoured to get information for the committee on this subject, the constant answer was, that almost every office he could mention must be on the ground floor, or there might be a most serious public inconvenience. He had even asked, was it absolutely necessary that the room in which the coachmen's great coats were left should be on the ground floor, and he was told that it was necessary. The consequences that he expected to follow were—that after a very great area of ground was bought, and covered with all the necessary offices for carrying on the business of the Post-office on the ground floor, it would then be proposed to fit up elegant apartments over them, for the accommodation of those persons to whom it was wished to afford this accommodation. [742
 Mr. Sumner  observed, that the value of the materials of the houses purchased for this area would be about 60,000 l l
 Mr. Sumner  declared, that he was not one who found fault with the right hon. gentleman for raising 36,000,000 l
 Mr. Sumner  thought that the House should see the plan and estimate before the money was voted.
 Mr. Sumner  observed, that it would be proper to restrict the power of purchasing buildings, which was now given to the public for five years. He thought they should be obliged to decide in eighteen months what buildings or ground they would purchase, and to complete the purchase within six months after.
 Mr. H. Sumner  then rose, and stated the objections he had uniformly advanced against the re-building of the Post-office, on the contemplated plan, since the measure was first agitated. He apologised for being absent when the subject was last discussed. The reason of which was, that, as it stood amongst the orders, and a great variety of notices preceded it, on a day when the notices were to come on first, he had no idea that the subject would have been discussed on that evening. Many of the notices were, however, deferred, foe the purpose of then considering the Bill—a proceeding which he did not think fair or candid. With respect to the mode in which the expense of erecting the new Post-office was to be defrayed, it appeared to him to be in the highest degree unjust. All taxation should be as general as possible; and, except in cases of local improvement, this principle ought never to be deviated from. But, in the present instance, the citizens of London, and the inhabitants of some of the adjacent counties, would be taxed for a public work, from which they would derive no more benefit than the other subjects of the empire. He never could agree to charge, on the Orphans' Fund, any part of the expense of the new building. That Fund was placed under the management of the corporation of London; and he was one of those who did not much admire the way in which they had discharged the trust committed to them. No less than. 900,000 l l l l, 739] l l
 Mr. Tierney , admitting them to be but 5,000,000 l l 749] l [750 l l 751]
 Mr. Tierney  admired nothing so much as the ingenuity of the noble lord. It was only when he got to the end of his speech, that those who listened to him could tell what was going on. He spoke much of the amicable arrangement which had taken place, but spoke as if it was attended with no inconvenience, as if it was to throw no burthen on the people, and after all it came out that 8,000,000 l
 Mr. Bankes  thought the proposed area Was much larger than necessary.
 Mr. Bankes  objected to the treaty under which the payment of the Dutch loan was guaranteed to Russia by this country, having formerly objected to the original treaty, of which this was to be considered a branch. The noble lord had rung the changes upon the terms, grand system, national generosity, and liberal policy, until he almost persuaded himself that this country was capable of supplying pecuniary resources to the whole of Europe; and it was obvious that Holland was not now, and could not for many years be in a situation to repay to England, even the salvage of her colonies, much less the enormous sums that they had cost this country. He objected to the system upon which Government was now acting with regard to foreign powers; they were embarking this country too much in foreign policy, and connecting her too intimately with continental affairs. Upon a question like the present, the utmost deliberation was necessary, and he thought that the treaty ought to have been presented to Parliament long ago.
 Mr. Lockhart  opposed the principle of the treaties. The Netherlands, he observed, were in part conquered by British arms—they were conquered by our victories in Spain and France; and we had therefore a joint title to dispose of them. The Cape of Good Hope could be of no benefit to us—it was as safe in the hands of the Dutch. He did not think that industrious people could want our aid to repair their own fortresses. It was of the utmost importance to strengthen the hands
 [756
 Mr. Butterworth  observed, that a fair estimate, founded on the size of the proposed area, had been given in.
 Mr. Grenfell  considered that his hon. friend was entitled to considerable praise for the zeal which he had displayed in his opposition to this measure. He could not agree, however, in the comments which he had made on the hon. alderman opposite (sir W. Curtis), whose conduct he considered as having been unobjectionable in every sense of the word, as far as regarded his duty of collector of the duty on coals.
 Mr. Whitbread  considered the explanation of the noble lord to be but a poor excuse for the conduct of Russia. The country, he thought, would be little disposed to pay a loan which had been contracted to put a Russian armament in motion against the independence of Poland, after supporting with their money the opposite side of the question on a former occasion. He thought it very desirable that we should know whether or not we were called upon to pay the price of that iniquity which we thought it our duty to oppose before. Notwithstanding the arrangement which had been made, he considered the situation of the creditors of Russia in Holland, to be but indifferent after all.
 Mr. Whitbread , in reference to what had been said by the noble lord of the agreement made by the Sovereigns of the smaller states, to advance in aid of the common cause a sum equal to one year's revenue of their respective dominions,
 [748
 Mr. Whitbread  remarked, that according to the last speaker, the rajah of Banca had assisted the English in the conquest of Java.
 Mr. Wallace  denied that fact. He had never moved until after the English had taken possession of Java, when he had seized that occasion to murder all the Dutch inhabitants in his dominions.
 Mr. Wallace  stated, that the rajah of Banca, having murdered all the Dutch, and declared himself independent of them, which he was not before, had afterwards been obliged to fly. His brother had then been made sovereign, and had ceded his rights to us.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, it was with the utmost difficulty that the House could be prevailed on to pay any attention to a subject of such importance; but he felt it his duty to protest against the vote. If this country had only contributed by her money to the object of the war, the other Powers might call on us to accommodate matters with our gold or paper; but they should remember that we had constantly kept up 150,000 seamen, and a land force immense in comparison to our population. Why then were we to pay all other Powers? As to the fortifications of Belgium, it was necessary, as we were to pay two millions towards that object, to have some security that it would be accomplished; otherwise, we might be merely so much the poorer, and the frontier of Belgium never the stronger. Why were we to pay Holland also for accepting what Austria rejected, and other Powers for giving up that which we paid Holland for receiving? He had no doubt, that even if we had not subsidized them, the Continental Powers would, by some means, have found money to continue the contest against France.
 Sir James Shaw  defended the city of London from the imputations attempted to be cast upon it by the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, and repeated the arguments which he had urged on former occasions in favour of this Bill. He considered the Orphans' Fund could not be better applied than in the erection of a new Post-office, which would not alone prove beneficial to the city of London itself, but to the country at large, from the great facility which would be given in the transaction of public business in this department.
 Sir John Newport  dwelt upon the impolicy of repairing the fortresses on the frontiers of Belgium that might in future devolve into the hands of the enemy, and allow him to turn our own weapons upon ourselves, while we, even when we re-
 753]
 Sir W. Curtis  defended himself from the charge which had been brought against him, and submitted, that the compensation which he received for the trouble of collecting the duties on coals was far from being too liberal. There were many situations in which collectors received per cent, for the execution of their duties,
 [740
 Mr. Peel  said, the present Master of the Rolls for Ireland had never taken those
 [758
 Mr. Ponsonby , when the subject had been brought forward in Mr. Perceval's time, had been of opinion that the Six Clerks who had purchased their offices with an understanding that they might sell them again, ought to be exempted from the measure then submitted to Parliament.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that on a string of resolutions which, related to so many complicated transactions, it was impossible for the House immediately to decide, with satisfaction to themselves or justice to the parties; and he could take no other course than to move an adjournment of the debate to afford time for consideration. If the hon. mover had taken the same view of the question, it would have been the most convenient course that he should have abstained from any remarks on bringing them forward; but as the hon. mover had made some observations, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should also think it necessary to say a few words. As a servant of the public, it was his duty, perhaps, to attempt to push to the utmost extent the statements of the hon. gentleman; but he had a duty to justice, which was superior to his official duties, and which obliged him to say, that hon. gentleman's statements were exaggerated, and his deductions erroneous. The hon. gentleman had taken the amount of the ba-
 765] l. l. [766
 Mr. Ponsonby  did not rise to oppose the amendment of the right hon. gentleman, but to correct the mis-statements which he had urged against the motion of his hon. friend, who by no means insinuated a charge against the Bank for the terms on which they transacted the public business; but merely on the ground of an improvident bargain having been made on the part of the public. No imposition was imputed to the Bank; all that was wanted was a revision of the contract in future, and he concurred in the necessity of allowing intermediate time for that purpose. The plain object of his hon. friend's motion was to procure a fair bargain for the public; in doing this he by no means cast any reflection upon the Bank. With reference to the general Acts of Parliament, these were only binding for a certain time, and it was competent for Parliament to revise them at pleasure. The right hon. gentleman concluded by calling the serious attention of the House to the Resolutions, and hoping that they would be printed preparatory to any further discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was very glad to hear that there was no intention of bringing any charge against the Bank.
 Mr. Rose  observed, that the hon. mover
 767]
 Mr. Rose  observed, that if private bankers were not resorted to, there was no alternative but to trust the money to the Bank.
 Mr. Rose  explained. He thought it might be proper to re-consider the bargain with the Bank, as the public were undoubtedly entitled to as good an arrangement as could be made for them.
 Mr. Thornton  said, that as it was intended to print the hon. gentleman's Resolutions, he should have abstained from making any remarks until a future day, but he thought the House might be misled by the Resolution that excluded the banknotes deposited at the Exchequer from the public balances in the two periods of 1807 and 1814, which were compared with each other, as the leaving out these bank-notes made a difference in the deposit of three millions beyond what it really was. He objected to the last Resolution, by which the House was called upon to pledge itself to take into consideration the arrangement between the Bank and the public, which had always heretofore been entrusted to the Executive
 [770 l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that the country owed a great obligation to the hon. member for bringing this question before the House, and added, that the Bank did not pay by any means a due commutation for stamp-duties; for it paid only 42,000 l. l.
 Lord Castlereagh  agreed with his hon. friend who spoke last, that it was extremely desirable to know the extent of the evil which was meant to be cured. He thought it highly proper to ascertain whether any illicit traffic was continued or not. His Majesty's ministers, having pledged themselves to facilitate every measure that would tend to abolish the Slave-trade, must stand pledged to support such a measure as that now proposed. He was, however, afraid of the delusion that might prevail in the colonies against
 [784
 Mr. Ponsonby  adverted to what he had said in a former session, as to this transaction ending in a positive pecuniary loss to Great Britain: he contended that the whole of his prophecy had been literally fulfilled.
 Lord Castlereagh  also repeated what he had said at that time, namely, that it was extremely desirable to give a French possession to Sweden to secure her co-operation in the general cause. He had predicted the beneficial consequences that would result from this co-operation; and lie would contend, that all he had said had been as much fulfilled as the predictions of the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Ponsonby  rose to enter his protest against the Treaty concluded with the King of the Netherlands, by which Eng-
 [786
 Lord Castlereagh  defended the policy of the Treaty, and shortly repeated the arguments he had used on a former night, to prove the arrangements which had been made were neither unnecessary nor improvident.
 Mr. A. Browne  withdrew his amendment, after which leave was given to bring in the Bill.
 Mr. A. Browne  said, that he felt considerable difficulty in addressing the House, after the eloquent and impressive speech they had just heard; but he would not shrink from the task from any sense of personal inconvenience. The House would perceive in the explanation which the hon. member had given of the object of his Bill, abundant reason for postponing any further consideration of it, in the present advanced state of the session, even if they should be disposed to grant leave to bring it in; and indeed if the session were not so far advanced, considering how seriously the Bill affected the private interests of individuals unrepresented in this House, and who are removed to a distance from the immediate influence and protection of the government, and how seriously it affected the constitutional and local authorities of the colonies,—the House in its justice would feel the necessity of postponing any proceedings upon it, until the nature and object of the Bill was known to those who had so deep an interest in its enactments. [776 bonâ fide 777] [778 779]
 Mr. Protheroe  was not only desirous of promoting by every means the great object of the entire abolition of the Slave-trade, but he was even desirous of lending his support to the plan which his hon. friend had now brought forward. But while he said this, he owned he was also a good deal struck with what had fallen from an hon. gentleman who spoke last. It became the House, in a business of consequence, not to proceed with any undue haste. Did his hon. friend think that it would be possible to proceeed through the Bill in the present session, and that an affair of so great interest to the colonies should be decided on without affording them an opportunity of expressing their sentiments? He was not very sanguine, however, in his expectations, that the colonial legislatures would adopt this measure; and it was the less likely because the measure was brought forward here, as they would consider it an infraction of their rights. He was willing to allow that the Legislature of the parent country had a paramount right to legislate for the Colonies; but the exercise of that right ought to be determined by the combined consideration of the importance of the object, and the possibility of its being effected. He hoped his hon. friend would move for the appointment of a committee, that the result of their labours might be laid before the House in the next session.
 Mr. Horner  re-stated some of his objections to the measure, and declared that even the authority of the Attorney-General for Ireland would not satisfy him that the Master of the Rolls had a right to make money of the Six Clerks offices.
 Mr. F. Douglas  condemned the traffic on any grounds as immoral and abominable, and trusted that no opportunity would be lost of ameliorating the condition of the slaves. He was strongly in favour of the motion; he felt as anxious as any individual for the safety of our colonies; but saw no danger that could result to them from the regulations proposed. It would appear extraordinary to all Europe if we should now, out of delicacy to our own colonies, abstain from fulfilling the intention of the Act of Abolition.
 Mr. Tierney  explained. He was now more fully convinced than ever, that no Chancellor of the Exchequer could do what he wished to do, till different arrangements were made. It now turned out that the bargain was such as might have been mended; and as Mr. Perceval had tried every argument without effect, it showed that Threadneedle-street was an overmatch for Downing-street.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that according to the right hon. gentleman, the public were in the hands of the Bank, and it was lucky they did not exact still harder terms from the public. As to the entrusting the public money to private bankers, his hon. friend who made the motion had said nothing of the kind; he had merely mentioned private bankers to illustrate the subject. He would appeal to any banker in the House, whether the staple balance which his hon. friend had fixed on as a remuneration to the Bank was not ample, supposing the security sufficient. Would not the hon. baronet opposite (sir W. Curtis) be ready to jump at one-third of the sum? Notwithstanding the assertion of the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, it had been thought by some well-informed persons, that it was possible to set up an establishment in opposition to the Bank of England as its rival in the management of the money affairs of the public.—The right hon. gentleman expressed his surprise that the House had heard nothing upon, the subject from the Bank itself. There were the governor and two directors of the Bank in that House, and yet none of them spoke a word. But it seemed the resolution of these gentlemen never to open their lips, unless they could get something by it. They should not, however, leave a discussion of this nature to be managed on their part solely by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for that was not dealing fairly either by that right hon. gentleman or by the House. But such conduct, combined with other circumstances, served to betray the existence of that clandestine system between the Bank and the Treasury which he had long suspected; for he could never get at the secret of how many exchequer-bills were purchased by the Bank. No; this fact was studiously concealed, and that concealment accounted
 [768 769]
 Mr. Barham  declared he would go as far as any man for emancipation. He thought the measure proposed both important and excellent; and might even be much improved in time. He wished a ground was laid for the proceeding by a previous committee He thought the title of the Bill assumed the fact that there still were illicit importations of slaves; and this was a circumstance well worth inquiring into; otherwise the registry of slaves as now proposed, would be so incomplete as not to be of any use. He denied the truth of the contents of a pamphlet, issued under the sanction of the African institution, and which they appeared to have fulminated as their manifesto. A committee of inquiry into the condition of the slaves would be highly desirable and judicious. But as to the motion before the House, he regretted that he could not consistently vote for it.
 Mr. Marryatt  thought, injustice to themselves and the colonies, that the House ought to have a legislative foundation to act on. He considered the committee from which this measure proceeded, as by no means the safest guides for the House. By their construction of the Abolition Act and our Treaties with Spain and Portugal, which had been sent to all commanders of vessels, numerous captures had been made of vessels belonging to those countries: and our Government had been obliged to pay Portugal 300,000 l. 781] [782
 Mr. Grenfell  explained, that he had only mentioned private bankers with a view to ascertain what was the proper remuneration to the Bank for the management of the public debt.
 Mr. Grenfell , in explanation, said, that he was astonished that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have conceived that there was any such intention. He had taken pains most explicitly to disclaim any such intention.
 Mr. Grenfell  hoped, the hon. gentleman would make a motion on that sub-
 [772
 Mr. Grenfell , in reply to the hon. director, stated, that he did not propose any inquiry with regard to the private affairs of the Bank: but as far as the public were concerned with that body, he
 771] l. l. l. l., l.
 Mr. Grenfell , prior to proceeding with the motion of which he had given notice, on the subject of the balance of public money in the hands of the Bank, moved, "that the second Report of the Committee on the Public Expenditure be entered as read;" which having been done, the hon. gentleman proceeded to observe, that the motion he was about to submit to the House was founded on the document which had just been entered as read, and on various papers which had been laid on the table of the House—having reference to certain transactions subsisting between the Bank of England and the Government. He was here desirous of stating, that it had never entered into his contemplation, to propose a measure that would operate on any contract now existing between Government and the Bank—and still less had it entered into his view of the subject, to bring forward a proposition that would go to rescind any of those agreements, made by the Bank of England, and sanctioned by the authority of an Act of Parliament, which would expire in the month of April next. Yet it was, he conceived, in some degree necessary that he should not let the present session pass away, without laying before the House, a combined practical view of the facts contained in the papers laid before them. He meant not to move any thing on those papers that would operate at present. What he had in view was, some ulterior proceedings with respect to those transactions, that would lead to an improvement of the existing system, in the ensuing session of Parliament. In order to effect this object, it appeared to him (and he was glad to find his own judgment on this point confirmed by the opinion of others) that the best mode would be, to submit to the consideration of the House a series of resolutions of fact, founded on the papers now on the table
 759] [760 l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 1814— Unclaimed Dividends £ 640,000 
 Customs, Excise, and Stamps 507,000 
 Post-Master-General 31,000 
 Various deposits of Government 3,767,000 761] 
 
 American Commissioners, and other balances 479,000 
 Under the head of Exche-chequer Deposits (Exche-quer-bills and Bank-notes deposited in chests of the Tellers of the Exchequer as cash) 6,542,000 
 The whole making an aggregate of 11,966,000 l. [762 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 763] 
 1. "That it appears that there was paid by the public to the Bank for managing the national debt, including the charge for contributions on Loans and Lotteries, in the year ending 5th July, 1792, the sum of 99,803 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. 2. "That the total amount of banknotes and bank post-bills in circulation in the years 1795 and 1796 (the latter being the year previous to the restriction on cash payments), and in the year 1814 was as follows:
1795, Feb. 1, 12,735,520 l. l. l. l. l. l. 3. "That at present, and during many years past, more particularly since the year 1806, considerable sums of public money, forming together an average stationary balance amounting to many millions, have been deposited with, or otherwise placed in the custody of the Bank of England, acting in this respect as the bankers of the public. 4. "That it appears from a Report, ordered to be printed August 10, 1807, from 'the Committee on the Public Expenditure of the United Kingdom,' that the aggregate amount of balances, and deposits of public money in the hands of the Bank of England, including banknotes, deposited in the Exchequer, made up in four different periods of the quarter, ending 5th Jan. 1807, fluctuated betwixt the sums of 11,461,200 l. l. l. l., 5. "That the aggregate amount of such deposits, together with the exchequer-bills and bank-notes deposited in the chests of the four Tellers of the Exchequer, was, on an average, in the year 1814, 11,966,371 l. l. l. 6. "That it appears that this aggregate amount of deposits, together with such portions of the amount of bank-notes and
 [764 7. "That the only participation hitherto enjoyed by the public, since the year 1806, in the profits thus made on such deposits by the Bank, has consisted in a loan of 3,000,000 l. l. 8. "That this House will take into early consideration the advantages derived by the Bank, as well from the management of the National Debt, as from the amount of balances of public money remaining in their hands, with the view to the adoption of such an arrangement, when the engagements now subsisting shall have expired, as may be consistent with what is due to the interests of the public, and to the rights, credit, and stability of the Bank of England."
 Mr. Huskisson  explained. Government had only consented to such a bargain as they thought was fit between the public and the Bank.
 Mr. Huskisson  defended the bargain made with the Bank by the late Mr. Perceval, in 1808. In that transaction Government had employed every possible argument in favour of the public, and it was not without considerable difficulty that they obtained from the Court of Directors a loan of three millions without interest. It was, however, now open to the House to re-consider the bargain.
 Mr. W. Smith  declared, that he felt great weight in what had been urged by the noble lord; but in his own opinion, there was no ground for the committee: it might do much harm, and could not do any good, as proof would be wanting of the illicit traffic. He thought much good might result from a general law that should be applicable to, and operate upon all the colonies at once. He had no hope of the colonies taking up the measure on their own account. The hon. gentleman, to support this opinion, read a petition from the free people of colour to the assembly in Barbadoes, in 1811, on their being debarred from giving evidence; it stated, that the lower orders of white people entered their houses and treated them with
 785]
 Mr. W. Smith  felt it necessary to take up the subject in another view. He wished to know why we alone were called on to pay the million for the redemption of Guadaloupe, while the measure from which it had arisen had been for the general advantage. He alluded to the transfer of Norway, and said he was happy, to hear that the people of that country were by no means so dissatisfied with the change as it was at first believed they would be.
 Mr. Wilberforce  shortly replied. He acknowledged that the session was so far advanced that it might not be advisable to press forward a measure which might meet with opposition in all its stages. He should therefore yield to the general wish of the House.
 Mr. Wilberforce  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring under the consideration of the House, his motion respecting the registry of slaves in the British colonies. He felt a satisfaction, he said, in thinking that the measure which he intended to propose was one which involved no novelty of principle, but was, in fact, merely a supplement to the Bill for the abolition of the Slave-trade. It had been already adopted, to a certain extent, in the island of Trinidad, after a most mature and deliberate investigation, and had proved highly beneficial. He was happy to add also, that the principle of the measure was one which had received the decided approbation of the late Mr. Perceval, and which it had always been his intention to extend to those colonies which have colonial legislatures, as well as to those which had not. He was concerned to hear, however, that he might expect to receive opposition from many gentlemen in that House, who represented the West-India interest in it; and that opposition rendered it the more necessary that he should distinctly state the great principle upon which he intended to rest his measure. The object of it was not merely to check the various means by which the abolition laws were evaded or violated, but to prevent the continuance of the source of the evil itself. Many of his friends who then heard him would remember that, during the various discussions upon the abolition of the Slave-trade, it was constantly urged, both in that House and out of it, that no substantial benefit could be obtained, unless measures were devised to introduce those moral regulations with respect to the treatment of the slaves, which might secure a supply of slaves without looking to the slave-market for that supply. The great object of the abolitionists at that time certainly was to stop the supply from Africa, and thus lay the foundations for any superstructure which it might afterwards be expedient to raise. But it was impossible to do all that might have been wished, at
 773] [774 775]
 Sir Samuel Romilly  thought it was deeply to be lamented, that so long time should have been suffered to elapse before the supplementary measure of his hon. friend had been brought forward. The establishing a registry of slaves, and declaring all persons not found in the list to be free men, was the only way by which the illicit trade in slaves could be prevented. It was nothing more than establishing a registry of real property, and securing slaves to their owners, in the same way as it would secure to them their cattle. He lamented that the Act for the Abolition had scarcely at all tended to ameliorate the condition of the negroes. It was only in Jamaica that free men of colour were now permitted to give evidence in civil causes. In all the British colonies, it appeared, that any man not of a white complexion was presumed to be a slave, and any man who stole his certificate from an unhappy-black who had procured his freedom, stole from him his liberty. Every black man was in all these islands  primâ facie 783] l.
 Sir John Newport  said, if the lateness of the session was prejudicial to the consideration of the Bill, it was equally unfavourable to the formation of a committee. What would the committee do? They would prepare a Bill, which would lie over from next session to the following. He deprecated the proposed delay, and thought that this blessing ought to be conferred on
 [780
 Mr. Valentine Blake  regretted the postponement; but as it would be impossible for him to attend in his place in the future stages of the Bill, he trusted the House would excuse him for offering a few words on the present occasion. He was anxious to express his approbation of the measure, and also to correct an impression calculated to be produced by the statement of a right hon. baronet, that the Master of the Rolls in Ireland was raised to his judicial duties in order to enable the Lord Chancellor of Ireland to do that which he never had done, namely, to attend in his place in the House of Peers. The duty of the Master of the Rolls in England was divided with the Vice-Chancellor; there was no Vice-Chancellor in Ireland, and therefore the duty of the Master of the Rolls in Ireland was equally important and onerous with that of the Master of the Rolls in England; and that duty has been performed with an ability and diligence quite to the satisfaction of the eminent law authority who presided at the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and also to the full satisfaction of the whole bar and people of that country. There was no instance of an appointment received with such general approbation as that of the present Master of the Rolls in Ireland—an approbation which was quite sufficient to silence in the mind of his cotemporaries every feeling of jealousy or of envy. Was it fit that he should not be enabled to preserve the dignity of his judicial situation by an adequate allowance? The salary of the present Master of the Rolls of England, including the value of his house, was 5,000 l.
 The Attorney-General  suggested the propriety, as his hon. and learned friend had intimated an intention to oppose another clause of the Bill, which he had no hesitation in anticipating to be the clause interdicting the marriage of lady Roseberry and sir Henry Mildmay, of postponing the consideration of the present clause until that question was disposed of; as, if the House, permitted the marriage to take place, which he trusted would not be the case, the clause allowing maintenance would come in a very different shape.
 The Attorney-General  protested against the doctrine, apparently assumed by his hon. and learned friend, that all those who opposed the Bill of lord Auckland in 1800, were bound by that vote to give the same opposition to the present clause. As little did he think his hon. and learned friend justified in supposing, that any enactment of mere privilege in the other House ought to influence the deliberations of the House of Commons, or provoke them to a belief that their own privileges or legislative authority had been infringed. It was with perfect astonishment he had listened to the statement, that of every hundred marriages celebrated in this country, three at least were contrary to the canon law. His own observation led him to a conclusion very different indeed from any belief, that incestuous marriages were thus frequent, or that the injunctions of the spiritual code were thus daily violated. The first plain question for the House to consider was—what was the nature of the crime itself, stripped of its adventitious deformity, of all its peculiar and more odious characteristics? It was the crime of depriving a worthy and innocent man of what was most consoling and valuable to him in this life; it was the crime of depriving four young children of the care and attentions of their maternal parent. But, said his hon. and learned friend, this is an ordinary offence; why lake this out of the disgraceful catalogue, and stigmatise it with any marked or, added severity? Was there, then, no incest in this crime—was there no blood in it—was there in all its circumstances nothing beyond the impropriety of an individual seducing his friend's wife? It could not be meant that there had been no affinity, no trust nor confidence arising from affinity, beyond the common intercourse of friendship, or the ordinary civilities of society, in the case now under considera-
 [790 791]
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the insertion of the clause in the present instance did not bind the House to the adoption of a similar clause in other cases, because a divorce bill was at all times a special interference of the Legislature, which they might fashion according to their discretion. There had been a precedent for the admission of a similar clause in Campbell's Divorce Bill in 1801, in which it was specially inserted to meet the objections
 793]
 Mr. Abercrombie  thought, that when lady Roseberry came to that House to demand a favour, it was for them to consider on what terms it should be granted. It was, then, competent for the House to judge whether 300 l. 795]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in rising to submit to the committee the terms on which he had contracted a loan that morning, could not but regret that circumstances had made it necessary for him to propose that a provision should be made for the prosecution of a war on the most extensive scale, while the country was yet labouring under the burthens thrown upon it by a former contest. It would be in the recollection of the committee, that but a few months had elapsed since that House was employed in debating what provision would be necessary for the peace establishment of the country, and by what means the nation should be gradually released from the charge of the expenditure imposed upon it by the events of the late struggle in the cause of Europe. Scarcely, however, had the ratification of the Treaty of Peace with America arrived, before circumstances occurred which had led to a renewal of the war with France. The circumstances which had attended the landing of Buonaparté in France were of a nature so extraordinary and unprecedented, that they could neither be by possibility foreseen, nor prevented by any act of the British Government; and they were felt throughout Europe as an electric shock, which in a moment rouzed all its nations into arms. The Declaration of the Allies of the 13th of March, issued at a time when it was not possible for them to have had any communication with this country, proved that the impulse had not been given by England, but that it was the opinion of all the great Sovereigns on the Continent, that with a government like the present government of France, whose authority rested in no right—which was founded on oppression at home, and insatiable ambition abroad—there was no safety for them but in war; satisfied as they were, that such a power would labour to effect the subjugation of Europe, if it were not overpowered itself. This country had at that time made some progress in the reduction of its expenditure. The American war was at an end; but at the same time large demands were existing against the nation. Though this war was closed, it was still necessary to provide for the
 [796 l., l. l. l. l. l. l., 797] l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. [798 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 799] l.
 Mr. Turney  declared, that the proposition with which the right hon. gentleman had concluded his speech was one of the most alarming that he had ever heard. At the same time, he must do justice to the right hon. gentleman for the clearness and fairness of his statements with respect to the existing ways and means, on which, upon the whole—although it was probable that there would be some deficiency in the property-tax—he agreed with him. As to the supplies, the right hon. gentleman had endeavoured to convince the committee that they ought not to contemplate a similar account next year, for that at least 21 millions could not recur. The committee should, however, bear in mind, that they were ignorant of the nature of that arrear of 21 millions. To him there seemed no reason to doubt that similar arrears would again accumulate. In the article of Army Extraordinaries, liberal as the annual grants had been, they had never covered the actual expenditure; and it was not to be supposed that they would do so in future. The estimate of the Commissariat appeared to him to be under-rated by the right hon. gentleman. Last year the expenses of that department were three millions, and the year before two millions and a hall; but this year they were estimated by the right hon. gentleman at only 1,100,000 l. l. l. l. [810 l., l. l., l. 811] l. l. [812 l. l. l. l. 813] [814 815] [816 817]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entered into an elaborate reply to the comments of Mr. Tierney. He began by expressing his satisfaction at the approbation given by the right hon. gentleman, in general, to the statements he had made, and the measures he had proposed. The candour shown by the right hon. gentleman made him the more desirous of entering into such explanations as his (Mr. T's.) observations appeared to require; and he trusted that he should be able to give such an answer to so many of the right hon. gentleman's observations as were of a financial nature, as he would admit to be satisfactory, though he could not flatter himself they should so readily agree upon the political topics which the right hon. gentleman had introduced. [818 819] [820 821] [822
 Lord A. Hamilton  spoke in favour of the amendment.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  would only say, that in every part of the world, except France, the name of the Prince Regent, and the unblemished honour of this country, were most highly respected and extolled.
 Mr. Bathurst  could not agree with the hon. gentleman (Mr. Taylor), that the fund for producing the moral effect which he had anticipated should be taken out of the fortune of lord Roseberry. This would be leaving no discretion at all to the husband to improve her circumstances, if she reformed her conduct, but would be directly carving out of his fortune that which ought to be left entirely to his ge-
 [794 l.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought, that his hon. and learned friend need not complain of the eloquence of the Attorney-general, as it appeared to have made so little impression on him. His argument, however, had been bottomed on the opinions of all the best writers upon the subject. They all described the crime as most peculiarly destructive to public morals, when committed by persons to whom affinity or propinquity afforded the most unrestrained intercourse. They therefore conceived, that the strongest prohibitions were necessary to prevent the crime from being committed under those circumstances. The canon law had determined that such marriages were incestuous, and he saw no reason to contend against that interpretation which the English law had adopted. As to the question of privilege as between the two Houses, he conceived that every case stood upon its own merits, and that this was a peculiar case, which ought to be excepted from the common rule; Here it was evident, that the canon law was not hostile, but auxiliary to public morals. He should, therefore, vote for the adoption of the clause, on the ground of the peculiarity of the case.
 Mr. Lockhart  wished, that the hon. gentleman could inform the committee what was the fortune which the lady brought?
 Mr. Taylor  said, that he was not acquainted with either of the parties, but he understood that her fortune was 6,000 l. l.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  could not avoid bowing to the decision of so large a majority, although he had felt it his duty to urge those arguments which pressed upon his mind. He now came before the committee in another capacity, and must intreat them to consider whether, if lady Roseberry should still have virtue enough left (as he hoped she had) to quit the connexion with sir Henry Mildmay, it would be right that she should be reduced to the miserable pittance of 300 l. l.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  thought, that the commmittee should be on its guard against the eloquence of the right hon. and learned gentleman, whose argument appeared to him in the nature of an address to a jury to obtain large damages. He considered that the case had been much exaggerated, by terming it an incestuous intercourse. He believed that there were numberless marriages in this country which might be void by the strict application of the canon law. He knew many men, of the most respectable character in other retpects, who had married their first wife's sister. If there was already a law upon the subject, why should not the present case be left to the operation of that law? It had been said, that it was probable that lady Roseberry would be ultimately deserted by sir Henry Mildmay. Much, however, as he condemned the
 [792
 Mr. Taylor  agreed to postpone the clause. On the clause for forbidding the marriage of the countess of Roseberry with sir Henry Mildmay being read,
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  again rose, and declared his hostility to this clause. Many attempts, he said, had been made to introduce a general law applicable to offences and cases of this description, all of which had hitherto failed in their progress through the legislature. In 1771, and in 1779, the same effort had been equally fruitless. In 1800, the Bill commonly called Lord Auckland's Bill was introduced, and met in that House with a like fate. That measure had two purposes
 [788 789]
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  rose and said, he did not think the sum proposed in this clause sufficient to provide lady Roseberry with the common necessaries of life. He was one of those who could not accede to the opinion of the late lord Thurlow—an opinion which seemed, indeed, to have crept into the minds of many individuals, that after a woman has committed an act of adultery, she ought to be turned naked into the streets, without the means of sustaining existence. He had opposed many divorce bills which had been framed upon this principle, and therefore the less surprise would be felt at the course which he conceived it his duty take on the present occasion. He would appeal to the feelings of the House, whether it was; possible for lady Roseberry, after the splendour in which she had been accustomed to live, to support herself upon the miserable pittance of 300 l. 787] l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Preston  supported the amendment, as lady Roseberry had lost the benefit of the jointure of 1,500 l.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  could not conceive how it could be contended, that a lady who had conducted herself as lady Roseberry had done, was as fully entitled to the jointure settled on her at the marriage, as if she had lived with her husband in the performance of her duties. He could not see what claim the lady possessed, upon any principle of justice, upon the noble lord. If she had any claim on him, it was merely on his humanity; and from the character of the noble lord, he had no doubt, that whatever claims of that sort she might have, would be attended to as much as they deserved. It was not for that House to regulate the feelings or the bounty of the noble lord.
 Mr. W. Smith  was ready to vote for the clause, as he considered the present case a very aggravated one. He could not vote for it, however, if there was any statement of the connexion being incestuous, as he did not consider it to be so. If it was declared incestuous, it would exceedingly hurt the feelings of many very respectable people who were now married to the sisters of their former wife.
 Mr. Baring  rose to lament that so much unnecessary expense should be incurred by the country, at a moment so important as the present. He declared that he would take the sense of the House upon the third reading.
 Mr. Atkins Wright  fully concurred with the hon. gentleman who spoke last.
 Mr. Gordon  said, that in the case of the new Custom-house, the ground belonged to the public; but in that of the new Post-office, it was to be purchased at a great and indefinite expense. He should oppose the Bill to the last, because he viewed it in the light of a mere job, and a profligate expenditure of the public money.
 Mr. Forbes  was happy to find that the motion was not likely to meet with any opposition. He feared, that the sultan owed his deposition less to the massacre of the Dutchmen than to his refusal to continue the tin contract under a disadvantage.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he concurred with much of what bad been stated by the right hon. baronet. The right hon. baronet must, however, be himself aware, that there were many assertions in that Address, of which it was impossible that
 [826
 Mr. Taylor  was extremely glad that the motion had been made, as it bad been the means of procuring this statement from the noble lord.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he held in his hand a Petition from Mr. Orr, late captain in the Rothsay and Caithness Fencible Regiment, complaining of his being dismissed the service without a court-martial, and praying for inquiry into his conduct. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to state, that captain Orr had brought charges against another officer in the same regiment, who was acquitted, and on whose acquittal captain Orr was dismissed. He said that it was too great a power for a court-martial to assume to dismiss the
 827]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  considered that the possession of these marbles would be a great acquisition to the public.
 829]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had conceived, that it would be more satisfactory for the price to be settled by the House, than in a private bargain between the Treasury and the noble lord. It was certainly so late in the session, as not to afford the opportunity of any long inquiry: but a committee of such members as were best qualified to judge of the value of those useful works of art might
 [830
 Mr. Rose  said, there had been some difficulty as to the receiving these marbles into the British Museum on account of the want of room; but the trustees were now determined to receive them, if the noble lord could agree with the public as to the price.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the noble lord threw himself entirely on the justice of Parliament.
 Mr. Bennet  then rose and said: [832 833] [834 835] [836 837] [838 839] "Barnstaple, June [840
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not intend to oppose the motion; but he should enter into a short explanation of the transaction. The loan to the house of Boyd and Benfield was very different from the present case; that was a loan of money which was in the hands of the Treasurer of the Navy, for navy purposes, to the contractors for the loan for the year; so that it was a loan justified no doubt by the circumstances of the case, of money, by the Government to those who again lent it to the Government. But in the present instance, the Government having contracted for a warehouse at Liverpool, for which they were to pay an annual rent, which was thought more convenient than to pay a large sum for purchase-money, the Corporation, of Liverpool, who were the contractors, represented that their funds would not enable them to proceed without a loan. They also slated, that
 [844 l.
 Mr. Wynn  thought this advance of money most unconstitutional, and observed that it would, if acquiesced in, open a door to abuses of which no man could see the end. The same might be done for Bristol, or any other town which happened to be in favour with the Treasury. The town would first get the money from the Treasury, and then it would only remain to be justified to the House, which was easier than to make out a case for obtaining it from Parliament. Under a Government less pure, the loan might be open to the charge of being granted for the sake of parliamentary influence.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the loan was merely an anticipation of the rent.
 Mr. Wynn,  after alluding to the national benefit of the propagation of this antidote to the smallpox, and observing upon the necessity of doing away the prejudice that prevailed against it amongst the lower orders, through some instances of its failure, moved for leave to bring in a Bill, "For procuring the benefit of Vaccination to such poor persons as are desirous of receiving it."
 Lord G. Cavendish  said, he believed he could state that there would be no necessity to remove the marbles from their present situation till the next session of Parliament.
 Mr. Horner  deprecated the proposed forfeiture of the arrears due to a soldier upon being made prisoner, because an order for the payment of such arrears to his wife and family might have been transmitted by such soldier, while he was actually performing his duty. But he would not object to the other forfeiture proposed, in case that the capture of a soldier should appear to be the effect of his own will or negligence; for to allow him his pay during his imprisonment
 831] onus
 Mr. Horner  thought it important that the public should have the possession of these marbles; but he should wish that the matter might lie over till the next session, as there was not time in the present to come to as full a report as would be satisfactory. The Committee would have to inquire, not only into the actual value of these marbles, but as to the manner in which lord Elgin got possessed of them. It was surmised that it was in his public capacity he obtained them; and if that was the case, it was to be considered what degree of claim the public already had. The compensation to be given to lord Elgin was certainly very different, if he got them in his public character, from what ought to be given if he had acquired them in another manner.
 Mr. Bankes  agreed with his hon. and learned friend, and observed, that these marbles, from what he understood of the case, were more than half public property. He also understood that there had been a treaty with lord Elgin, and that very liberal offers on the part of the Treasury had been refused. It would be, however, much to be regretted that these marbles should be removed from the country, or from the capital.
 Mr. Bankes  said a few words on the advantage of the process to society at large, and on the impossibility of preventing it from failing in a few cases.
 Mr. Bankes  expressed his conviction that his right hon. friend had acted from the purest motives, but argued that the principle on which he had so acted was utterly inadmissible. It was high time that such a practice, if it had prevailed to any extent, should be stopped; and he expressed his satisfaction to find that the motion was to be acceded to; as it would put Parliament in possession of the fact on that point.
 Mr. Bankes  thought there had been as many instances of failure in cases of vaccination, as in those of variolous inoculation. He was, however, highly in favour of the former process.
 General Gascoyne  seconded the motion.
 General Gascoyne  contended, that the warehouse in question afforded most ample security to the Government, as more than 50,000 l. l. 845]
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that it was necessary before such an expense was incurred, and especially at the present time, when every guinea was of such value to the Government, that the absolute necessity of the new Post-office should be shown.
 Mr. Birch  rose to submit a motion to the House, founded on the transaction, which had come to his cognizance, between the Treasury and the Corporation of Liverpool. It appeared that the Treasury had lent to the Corporation of Liverpool, without the authority of Parliament, two sums—of 30,000 l. 843] l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Birch  in reply stated, that the Corporation of Liverpool bad applied, or had intended to apply, for a remission of the interest, amounting to 4,000 l.
 Mr. Benson  warmly defended the conduct of the Corporation of Liverpool. An ample security had been given by them for the money advanced, the interest had been paid, and the whole transaction was one not of secresy, but of perfect, publicity.
 Mr. R. Smith  rose to submit to
 823]
 Mr. Robert Ward  presented a Petition from the Earl of Elgin, setting forth, "That at the period of the appointment of the petitioner to the embassy to Turkey, in the year 1799, several eminent artists and patrons of the Fine Arts, lamenting that, from the prejudices of the Turks, any remains which might still exist of ancient sculpture and architecture in Greece, were inaccessible and exposed continually to destruction, directed his attention, in an especial manner, to the benefit of rescuing from danger, and securing accurate information of those remains; and that having, on these suggestions, provided the best assistants Rome could afford, and being thereby, and by the employment of all other necessary means, enabled to avail himself of every favourable opportunity, as it arose, during and since his embassy, the petitioner now begs leave to transfer to the public what he humbly conceives to be a full attainment of an object of high importance to the progress of the Fine Arts; namely, a complete series of the sculptures which formed the principal ornament of the ancient temples in Athens, specimens of their most characteristic architecture, as well as drawings, casts, vases, medals, and inscriptions from Athens, and other parts of Greece; and that, as the circumstances attending his endeavours in the attainment of this object bear no resemblance to those under which any other collection was ever presented to the public, and as it is presumed that the series of sculpture in itself has no parallel in objects ever before purchased, the petitioner hopes he may be pardoned for soliciting that the House would institute an inquiry, upon such evidence as may be procured, into the merits and value of what he now offers, and take into its consideration bow far, and upon what conditions, it may be advisable that the property of the said collection should be transferred to the public."
 Mr. Whitbread  thought it highly important that it should not be supposed that because vaccination had in a few instances failed, that inoculation with variolous matter had not failed also. He had known, instances of persons who had been inoculated with the natural small-pox, having taken the infection after a lapse of twenty years.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that from the reports of committees, it appeared that the superior advantages of the new Post-office would much more than counterbalance the expense. It would be a great improvement to the city of London, and he believed it would not exceed the estimate.
 Mr. Thomas Courtenay  corroborated the statement of Mr. Wallace.
 Mr. Wallace  cordially coincided in the hon. gentleman's motion, because the papers would most fully prove the gross infraction of all the laws of nations, by the sultan of Java towards the Europeans residing in the island of Banca. We had deposed the sultan of Java, and it was incumbent on us to do so, in order to prevent like atrocities towards Europeans in the Eastern world in future. The hon. member went into a history of the sultan's barbarous conduct. The papers would most fully justify his Majesty's Government in the disposal of Banca.
 Mr. W. Smith  reprobated placing the disposal of any part of the public revenue at the discretion of the Treasury, instead of the discretion of Parliament. At the same time, he did not attribute any blame to Government but that inadvertence.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  hoped the House would not expect him to be prepared to go at length into all the cases stated by the hon. gentleman, some of which he had never heard of before. As for the first case, it had occurred many years before he came into office, and he did not at all know the minutiae of it. As to the case of colonel Phair and lieutenant Ridsdale, the Court-martial had taken place in Ireland, and the proceedings had never come to his office. As to captain Tuton's case, the assertions in his memorial had been flatly dented by the members of the Court-martial. Lieutenant Blake had been guilty of great outrages at Windsor, and afterwards sent in his resignation to the Horse Guards. It was not then thought proper to accept it, and he had been brought to a trial at Harwich, and found guilty. The hon. gentleman must have been misinformed respecting the notice of trial, as copies of the charges were invariably sent both to the prosecutor and the prisoners, before the day of trial was fixed. He next came to the case of ensign Cowell, and it gave him great regret to find this case so often alluded to. He was aware of the great difficulty and delicacy of the case respecting fighting duels, and was sensible of the inconsistencies in the Articles of War upon that head. He, however, apprehended, that greater evils would result from an alteration of them. He was satisfied the case of ensign Cowell was much misunderstood. He believed the facts of the case to be these: Ensign Cowell got into a personal quarrel at the theatre at Bourdeaux, with a man who was pressing into the box in which he sat. He then turned about to some officers near, and asked what they advised him to do. Their answer was—"Take no notice of him, we suppose that he is not a gentleman." Ensign Cowell shortly after asked the man whether he was a gentleman, and obtained his address. Ensign Cowell, however, let some days elapse without taking any farther notice, and the gentleman, a Mr. Hurley, then began to look for him. [842
 Sir F. Flood  offered a few remarks on the case of lieutenant Ridsdale, and contended that he had most properly been dismissed the service. With regard to Courts-martial in general, which the hon. member had attacked, he thought them subjects of commendation, as they were courts of strict law on one side, and courts of equity on the other.
 Sir George Warrender  said, that he had made inquiry into this affair, and could say that the hon. gentleman was mistaken as to the grounds of the dismissal of captain Orr. The grounds of hit dismissal were the failure of the charges he brought forward on the court-martial. The result of the court-martial was, that the charges were frivolous and vexatious. The court-martial also pronounced an opinion, that this proceeding did not appear to them to be wholly dictated by zeal for his Majesty's service. After such a sentence, it could not be supposed that his continuance in the regiment would have been advisable. Representations had been made of his conduct to lord Cathcart, who then commanded the forces in Scotland; and his lordship, being strongly of that opinion wrote to the lord-lieutenant of East Lothian to that effect. It was from the representations made from the lord-lieute-
 [828
 Sir John Newport  felt quite indifferent whether the previous question was carried, or whether the House would permit him to withdraw his motion. He had conceived it his duty to call the attention of Government to this important point, and he was happy to find that their ideas coincided so nearly with his own.
 Sir John Newport  thought, that a full inquiry ought to be made into the manner in which the collection had been acquired. He was afraid that the noble lord had availed himself of most unwarrantable measures, and had committed the most flagrant acts of spoliation. It seemed to have been reserved for an ambassador of this country to take away what Turks and other barbarians had always held sacred. It was the duty of the House to ascertain the truth of these matters; for otherwise, in case they should consent to purchase the collection, they would evidently sanction acts of public robbery.
 Sir John Newport  in rising to submit a motion to the House, relative to the Newfoundland fisheries, felt that, however important it might be in its nature, yet as it did not involve any question of more immediate interest, he was not entitled to expect their ready attention. Still, however, feeling that it was a question materially affecting the commercial and naval prosperity of the empire, he was warranted in calling on the House to take it under their most serious consideration. The fisheries on the coasts of Newfoundland, in the gulph
 [824 825] l.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that though the hon. general did not profess to be acquainted with the constitution, he seemed well acquainted with the best way of procuring money for his constituents. The hon. member for Liverpool had asserted, that large sums had formerly been granted to the London Dock and other companies. But then they had been granted by the authority of Parliament. If the precedent of Liverpool were admitted, why might it not be extended to Bristol, to Glasgow, to Dublin, or to Cork?
 Lord Palmerston  stated, that as to the mode of proof, it was proposed to examine the captured soldier himself, together with any evidence which could be adduced on the part of the Crown, in order to show the circumstances under which he was made prisoner. The clause itself, indeed, was suggested rather from what had already taken place, than from what was likely to take place again. It was notorious that several soldiers had, through intoxication or negligence, permitted themselves to be taken prisoners upon the Peninsula, to whom arrears of pay were due, and that on their return to this country those arrears were paid; no power existing by the Mutiny Act to withhold them.
 Lord Palmerston  proposed some new clauses, which were adopted; but upon the proposition of a clause, that any soldier who should be taken prisoner by the enemy should be liable to the forfeiture, not only of his pay during the continuance of such imprisonment, but of any arrears of pay due to him upon being so taken prisoner, if it should appear, upon investigation before a military tribunal, that such soldier had not used due exertion and energy to save himself from being so taken prisoner,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  never before heard the objections to this Bill propounded in so strong and eloquent a shape as they had just been, by his right hon. and learned friend. It had been argued, that if those chapels were exempt, an additional burthen would be imposed upon the other classes of the community. Now he denied that this would be the case; but even if it were, the House could easily suppose how insignificant the  onus l [854
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Chapel Exemption Bill.
 Lord Castlereagh  would have no hesitation in deferring the consideration of the subject, if there were really any point for deliberation. He thought it perfectly consistent, in communications of this nature to move an Address to the Crown, and to express the satisfaction of the House. The measure which the Crown was about to pursue was sanctioned by an Act of the House in the present session.
 Mr. Baring  supported the Bill, observing, that as it provided that no Chapel should be entitled to the proposed exemption which did not afford one-fifth of its pews gratis, it followed, that no mercenary speculator could avail himself of it, because he must lose more in establishing his title than he could gain by the exemption from the poor-rates; therefore such speculators could not be profited by the measure, while its enactment would serve not only to recognise the great principle of toleration, but to prevent parochial animosities and bickerings in those places where Dissenting meeting-houses were established; and the number of such establishments was one of the best signs of the times, for it proved the progressive advancement of religious worship.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented the following Message from the Prince Regent:
 859] "GEORGE, P. R. "The Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, thinks proper to acquaint the House of Commons, that, in pursuance of an Act passed in this session of Parliament, to authorize, under present circumstances, the drawing out and embodying the British and Irish Militias, or any part thereof, it is the intention of his Royal Highness, at this important conjuncture, to cause the said British and Irish Militias, or such parts thereof as he shall think necessary, to be drawn out and embodied, and to march as occasion shall require. "GEORGE, P. R."
 Lord Castlereagh  then moved, "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to return his Royal Highness the Thanks of this House for his most gracious Message, and to express the satisfaction afforded us by the information that it was the intention of his Royal Highness to cause the British and Irish Militias, or such parts thereof as his Royal Highness shall think necessary, to be called out and embodied at this important conjuncture."
 Mr. Baring  was of opinion, that an answer to the Message ought not to be given  instanter,
 Lord Castlereagh  contended, that it had been frequently the practice to return immediate addresses to communications from the Crown; and, considering the pressing exigency of the present moment, and that the power to be exercised was in pursuance of a Bill passed in the present session, he did not see any advantage to be gained by delay.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  (the Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer) rose and spoke to the following effect: [862 l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Stewart  defended the land-owners of the county of Donnegal from the imputation of conniving at the increase of illicit distillation. He had resided in that county twenty years, and had used the utmost exertions to suppress a practice so destructive of the morals and prosperity of the people. Were there a greater number of resident gentry in the county, the effect produced would be much greater; but those who resided there at present could not be expected wholly to put down that which the revenue officers and the military could not sufficiently restrain.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  congratulated Parliament and the country, on the manly, vigorous, and judicious manner, in which his right hon. friend had fulfilled the duties of his arduous office. He hoped that there yet remained for him many years of important, though laborious public service. His right hon. friend having succeeded to the task which had been thought too difficult by the able hands which resigned it, had in two years increased the revenue of Ireland two millions a year; thus adding 50 per cent, to
 [880
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he had heard with great satisfaction his right hon. friend declare his intention of proposing to Parliament a vote by which they should be pledged to take into consideration next session, a measure that seemed to him to be pregnant with beneficial consequences to the empire. When he proposed1 the union in Ireland, he did it in the hope that it would mitigate, rather than aggravate the expenses of that country. It was impossible for him or any one else to see the calamities which the British empire, in common with the rest of the world, had endured by the progress of the war; attended as it had been by an accumulating necessity for exertion. By those circumstances a greater burthen had been thrown, on Ireland than she could have borne had she remained in a separate state. This he deeply lamented. He would not prejudge the question; but he was persuaded when it came to be sifted, it would be found practicable, with perfect justice to both parties, to create that community of treasury and taxation which it was impossible to effect at the time of the Union. He bestowed a high eulogium on the conduct of his right hon. friend, who, during his continuance in office, had made such solid, provision for the public service, that every tax which he had proposed had much exceeded in its produce the estimate which he had previously made of it. It would be an additional honour to his right hon. friend to confer on the empire the benefit of bringing the countries into one common system of finance. With respect to the
 881]
 Mr. J. Smith  heard with great satisfaction of the extension of education to Ireland, and recommended that it should not be confined to any religion,
 Mr. Peel  stated, as a proof of the impartial diffusion of education to all sects in Ireland, that when Dr. Bell repaired to that country a short time since, and the children were examined before him to show their progress in reading, some of them refused to read in any other Testament than their own, and the schoolmasters stated, that they never checked this independence, and never interfered with the sentiments and persuasion of their scholars.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that after the luminous exposition which had been made by his right hon. friend, it would be quite unnecessary for him to intrude upon the committee at any length on the question before them. There was one point, however, on which he begged to be allowed to make a few observations. No man could be more sensible than himself of the advantages that would result to Ireland from the general diffusion of education. In making that statement he wished to be understood, that the benefit ought to be restricted to no particular sect—no distinction whatever ought to be observed.
 [878 879]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that an agreement had been made, which he would take an early opportunity of submitting to Parliament. A regular weekly return of the issue of Bank paper was to be made to the Treasury, a calculation was to be made from this amount, and the Bank was to pay to the public the sum of 3,500 l l
 The Speaker  said, that cases of this description must be governed by their own particular circumstances. There was no rigid rule on such subjects, and they must be regulated just as honourable members might form their opinions.
 Mr. Wetherell  thought that, upon the principle of the Bill, those chapels ought to be exempted from all other rates as well as parochial rates. He conceived that it was perfectly ridiculous to maintain the question on the ground of toleration. For whom was this toleration claimed?
 [856
 Mr. Protheroe  expressed his astonishment at the sudden and combined opposition now made to the measure. He thought the hon. general (Thornton) would have stood alone in his opposition to it. The explanations of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer were perfectly satisfactory to his mind, and he trusted the House would feel disposed to second his liberal and enlightened views. It should be recollected that the Dissenters contributed very much to the support of their own poor, which was a great relief to the parish rates.
 Mr. Bankes  said, that if the whole rate of those chapels only amounted to 4 l
 Mr. Butterworth  regretted that the right hon. and learned gentleman opposite had indulged in the application of unmerited epithets to a set of men, who were everyway as useful, enlightened, and loyal, as any in the Established Church.
 Mr. Butterworth  resumed, and said, the Bill had emanated from a spirit of conciliation; and he regretted that in its last stage, the right hon. gentleman should have come down with the force of his opposition. Had he (Mr. B.) anticipated this, he would have been prepared to show, by the presentation of petitions, that numerous hardships and grievances did exist, which loudly called for redress. The late Mr. Perceval was of the same opinion, and at the moment of his lamented assassination, was contemplating a measure like the present, which he had only deferred until another matter of still
 855]
 Mr. Grenfell  wished to ask the right hon. gentleman opposite, whether, in the late bargain with the Bank, any and what regulation had been made relative to the sum which was to be paid in lieu of stamp-duties on their notes?
 Mr. Serjeant Best  denied that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been taken by surprise by himself and the other gentlemen who now opposed the Bill. He himself had declared that he would oppose it. He would protect the interests, of dissenting ministers as readily as any man, but not at the expense of the ministers of the Established Church. The Bill was now so altered as to make it more objectionable in his mind than it was at first, by the total omission of whatever related to the Church. The clergymen of the Established Church would be liable to be rated for the rent of his pews, while the Dissenter, who had his conventicle opposite, would be exempted. The opposition to the measure had been characterised as persecution. He was no advocate for persecution. If the clergy of the Established Church were exempted from parochial taxes, and the Dissenters made liable to them, he should say that this was persecution; but as the matter
 857] l
 Mr. W. Smith  thought the character of this Bill had been materially over-stated; for it did not appear a matter of much consequence to the generality of the Dissenters, whatever pecuniary interest might be felt in its adoption by the speculating proprietors who built chapels with a view to profit by letting out the seats. But the fact was, that many of these speculators, who were generally carpenters, bricklayers, and plumbers, were members of the Church of England, who erected chapels from a motive which certainly did not entitle them to the proposed exemption. The supplementary chapels, how-
 [858
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that he understood the object of examining the soldiers and non-commissioned officers on the trial of ensign Cowell was to prove the valour of that officer on an occasion which rendered that valour unquestionable, and such evidence appeared to be relevant and necessary upon a trial in which that officer's valour was called in question.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought it very improper to take the House by surprise. It was extremely possible that some other minister might come down with an address in much stronger terms; and therefore the House ought not to consent to an immediate expression of their approbation. Many hon. members who generally delivered their opinion on this subject, might think it unnecessary to call out and embody any militia at this time.
 Mr. Manners Sutton  said, that general Cowell, the father of ensign Cowell, had this morning called upon him, in consequence of the statement which he had last night made with respect to ensign Cowell's case. A letter was written to him by general Torrens, respecting the propriety of examining soldiers and non-commissioned officers upon the Court-martial to try ensign Cowell, and in his answer he stated that if the evidence of those soldiers and non-commissioned officers referred to cases unconnected with the immediate subject of the Court-martial, such evidence would be clearly irrelevant, and that the examination of such witnesses, as to the character of an officer, would be a very novel proceeding, which required consideration. The Court-martial, however, decided against the admissibility of such witnesses. This statement he made for the satisfaction of general Cowell; and whenever he should happen, through inadvertency or misinformation, to make
 861]
 Sir H. Parnell  expressed his high satisfaction at the able, liberal, and useful speech which had just been made by the right hon. gentleman. He trusted with him, that the operation of the great and broad principle of educating the lower orders in Ireland would not be checked by any ill-advised and niggardly economy. He particularly recommended the example of Scotland in the construction of school-houses, and said, that, in his opinion, so trifling a rate as a penny an acre would, in a very few years, afford the means of providing sufficient buildings for carrying the proposed plan into full effect.
 Sir J. Nicholl  observed, that the case had already been submitted to legal adjudication. It had been adjudged, that all places set apart for religious worship, where no profits were made, were not rateable. It has also been adjudged, that places set apart for education, where profits were not made, were not rateable. As far, therefore, as respected both of those descriptions of property, the Act was quite unnecessary. When profits, however, were made by the letting out of pews, he could not see upon what principle such property was to be exempted from the common burthens. It was perfectly notorious that many buildings were erected for places of worship purely on speculation. It was equally notorious that many of these speculations turn out very profitable; and he could see no reason why, in that case, they should be exempt from the common burthens. He thought that it was straining the meaning of the word 'toleration' very far, to call it a persecution if they were not exempted.
 Sir E. Brydges  had the same understanding upon the subject.
 Sir J. Newport , in explanation, denied having said a single word in inculpation of the land-owners of the county of Donnegal.
 Sir J. Newport  complimented his right hon. friend on the ability which he had just displayed. He begged, however, to be permitted to make a few observations on the subject. With respect to the bulk of the taxes, they had already been discussed, and had received the sanction of Parliament. It was to be lamented that any increase in the duty on spirits would, under the present circumstances, be inevitably productive of that which was
 [876 l l 877] l l l
 Sir John Newport  would not have objected to a mere Address, but did not think it correct for the House, without any de-
 [860
 Sir John Newport  doubted, whether it was usual for the House to vote an Address, and express their approbation of the Message at the same time. It was proper that an opportunity should be afforded of examining into and deliberating on the subject of the Message, and as many hon. gentlemen were absent who might wish to deliver their opinions on the power to be exercised by the Crown, he hoped the noble lord would not call upon the House at present to express their approbation of the measure.
 Sir W. Scott  explained, and hoped that the hon. gentleman would not let his religious zeal get the better of his judgment.
 Sir W Scott  rose to give his decided opposition to this Bill. It was unnecessary for him to preface his observations by referring to the enormous increase of sectarians of late years in this kingdom;—there was not a town, a village, or hardly a
 [852 853]
 Sir W. Scott,  across the table, disavowed any such imputations.
 Mr. Rose  observed, that in this country the Master of the Rolls was underpaid, as he had refused an increase of salary which had been offered him.
 Mr. Abercrombie  opposed the Bill. The return to the House of the business done by the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, was such that no criterion could be formed of the real extent and laboriousness of it. In Ireland there had been no arrear of consequence in the Equity Courts. The business in Ireland, he thought, stood in no need of assistance from Parliament. The Master of the Rolls in England was underpaid, if his salary was compared with the extent of business done by him, and with the great talents which he possessed; but this excellent judge had himself determined that the salary of his office did cot need increase.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the House had acted upon the principle of equalizing the salaries of the judges in both countries, and the Master of the Rolls was the only judicial officer who had received no increase since 1801. The retiring pension of the Master of the Rolls was now less than the puisne judges, and his salary not more than 150 l l l
 Mr. Bennet  presented a Petition from Charles Hill, a prisoner for debt in the gaol of IlChester, complaining of various hardships in the mode of his confinement. The hon. gentleman moved that the Petition should lie on the table.
 Mr. Dickenson  observed, that he could almost venture to say, that the petitioner had never been confined in the gaol in question, as the utmost vigilance was exercised to prevent the abuse of solitary confinement.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he presented the Petition, because he felt it his duty to do so; but he could not vouch for the accuracy of the statement it contained.
 Mr. Horner  said, that from his knowledge of a Somersetshire magistrate, who was remarkably active in his endeavours to inquire into the conduct of the gaol of Ilchester, he was disposed to believe that that prison was well attended to. But yet this circumstance furnished no reason against the institution of an inquiry upon the subject of the Petition; for the vigilance of the worthy magistrate, to whom he referred, might have been evaded.
 Mr. Horner  urged again his objections against this measure. He observed, that even if the Master of the Rolls in Ireland was an officer equal in dignity to the same officer in England, the difference between the places of residence, the one the capital, the other a provincial town, would justify the present difference of salaries. The same reason which was adduced in favour of the present Bill, would justify a similar increase of salary to the judges in Scotland. He should therefore move that the Report be received that day three months.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that the office of the Master of the Rolls in Ireland, was executed in perfection; but on the death of the present Master of the Rolls, it would be necessary to fill his office with some person of eminence at the bar, to whom the present salary was not a sufficient remuneration. It would not be worth while to have the office ill filled, for the sake of a few hundreds a year.
 MR. Davies Giddy  reported from the Select Committee, to whom the several Reports from the Committees on the Public Income and Expenditure of Ireland, and the several Accounts and Papers presented to the House in 1813, 1814, and 1815, relating to the Public Income and Expenditure of Ireland, were referred; and who were directed to inquire and report to the House what has been, during the last 24 years ended the 5th Jan. 1815, the increase and redemption of the Public Funded Debt of Ireland, and what was the state and amount thereof on the said day, what has been the progress of the permanent revenue of Ireland during the same period, and what may be the expected future annual produce of the taxes now existing in that country; what has been the total expenditure of Ireland in each year of the same period, distinguishing the amount expended on account of the joint expend-
 885]
 Sir F. Flood  supported the Bill. Sir S. Romilly said a few words against it. After which, the House divided: For the bringing up the Report, 58: Against it, 24;—Majority, 34. The Report was accordingly brought up, and agreed to.
 Sir S. Romilly  said, it was very desirable that some inquiry should be made into
 [884
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  brought up the following Report:
 Mr. William Cook , called in, and examined. 899]
 Thomas Johnson,  esq. called in, and examined. [900
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  gave notice, that it was his intention, early in the next session,
 901]
 Mr. Forbes  said, that the conduct of governors, both in the West and in the East, was often such as would stamp their characters as petty tyrants. To them might well be applied what Buonaparté addressed to certain of his generals—that by being made governors their brains were turned. He had often witnessed such persons as he had just described, and was proceeding to lament that a notice entered some time ago on a similar case had not been pressed on the House, when
 Mr. Forbes  resumed, and declared his entire concurrence in the motion; at the same time hoping, that, on an inquiry, the allegations in the Petition would be satisfactorily explained.
 Mr. Gordon  stated, that he had in his possession a letter in the hand-writing of the noble lord, in which he expressed himself perfectly satisfied with Mr. Wyatt's conduct.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he was perfectly satisfied with Mr. Wyatt's conduct in his situation; but that he thought his conduct towards the Governor ill-judged, to say the least of it.
 Sir C. Burrell  spoke to order. The hon. member, he said, was going into statements which had nothing to do with the question before the House.
 Lord Castlereagh  concurred with his hon. friend near him in the opinion, that no case of this nature should be gone into, except where such corruption or oppression appeared as called for the high jurisdiction of Parliament. The case had been successively before three secretaries of state—himself, lord Liverpool, and lord Bathurst; who all entertained the same opinion of the high character of governor Gore, and of the unsupported character of the charges adduced against him. With respect to Mr. Wyatt, in advising his re-
 911]
 The Speaker  observed, that in strict order the hon. member must confine himself to the allegations of the Petition.
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. gentleman that he must confine himself to the question before the House.
 The Speaker  interrupted him, by observing that he was wandering from the question.
 Mr. Marsh  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the Petition of Mr. Firth, his Majesty's Attorney-general in the province of Upper Canada, be referred to a select committee, to inquire into its allegations, and report thereon. He said he should content himself with merely
 [906 907] primâ facie,
 Mr. Marsh , in the course of a short reply, observed, that he had never heard, until that moment, that Mr. Firth's petition had been offered to the member for Norwich, the suffrage of whose intelligent mind against it almost shook his own opinion. Still, however, he maintained, that if any one member in the House entertained sentiments unfavourable to governor Gore, it would be to the governor's honour to have the case fully investigated.
 Mr. Goulburn  could not accede to the proposition, although perfectly satisfied that nothing could afford general Gore more sincere pleasure than having an opportunity afforded him to bring forward the many proofs of innocence of which he was possessed. But, notwithstanding this circumstance, the House should in all cases act on public principles, without any regard to the individual feelings of those concerned. He said, that if on every trifling complaint an inquiry should be instituted to investigate grievances, either imaginary or true to a small extent, no other business could be transacted in that House. Mr. Firth, he would acknowledge, was a man of high respectability; but if his elevated situation was a presumptive argument in favour of his allegations, it was but fair to allow general Gore to derive a similar advantage when objecting to them. General Gore was chosen by Mr. Windham to fill his high and arduous situation—not from private or party reasons, but from the experience of his former government, which was well administered. At the time of his being sent to Canada, the colony was a scene of angry confusion, which was soon appeased by his authority. He then alluded to the charge made in the Petition against general Gore, as if he had hushed up a crime so heinous as child-murder. This charge required a distinct statement of the facts. The wife of a soldier in the 100th regiment was delivered of a child, whose death she attributed to the surgeon of the regiment. The case was investigated by the magistrates of the district in which it was said to have occurred. On this investigation Mr. Firth intruded, but was not permitted by the magistrates to be present during its continuance. The case appearing clear to them, the surgeon was dicharged, and his exculpation read in the general orders at the head of the regiment—not as a violent attack on Mr. Firth, but as an act of justice to the gentleman concerned.
 Mr. H. Martin  in reply stated, that his reason for abstaining from bringing forward any motion earlier, respecting the particular pension which had been alluded to, was because he thought the Report of the Committee of Public Expenditure would have effectually checked all such grants; but when he found two other pensions granted, of precisely a similar description, he thought it right to bring the whole subject under the notice of the House, lest the thing should, at last, swell into an intolerable grievance. With regard to the Post-office revenue, that was distinctly commuted upon the accession of his present Majesty, and the Crown, therefore, had no right to charge pensions upon it. As to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman respecting the application to that House in the way of estimate, for its concurrence, if he was correctly informed, that pension had been paid to the individual for at least ten years, out of different offices, and which they were now called upon to continue. He apprehended, however, that the constitutional way of granting a pension, was not by foisting it into an estimate, but by a message from the Crown. The hon. gentleman said, that the seat of colonel Congreve in that House was not affected by his pension, because it did not come within the meaning of the statute of Anne; but upon the above points, and especially the latter, he differed from the hon. gentleman. What was the intention of the Parliament that passed that Act? To prevent the extension of the influence of the Crown, not surely so far only as related to granting pensions from the Civil List, but in every other way. Was it probable, indeed, that Parliament would leave the Crown in possession of numerous offices, with the power to grant pensions upon those offices in any manner, except from the hereditary revenue? He apprehended, therefore, that the hon. gentleman was a little incorrect in his view of the effect which the pension ought to have upon the seat of colonel Congreve.
 Mr. H. Martin  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to submit a motion to the House relative to the grant of certain pensions which he conceived were irregular. The pensions in question were, one to the family of a member of Parliament, which was granted on the 1st of February, 1806, and charged on the establishment of the Foreign Secretary; and two others, granted to two highly meritorious officers (colonels Congreve and Shrapnell) by a private intimation from the Crown to the Master-general of the Ordnance, and charged on the Ordnance establishment. The first grant which he had mentioned he contended was illegal, as would be perceived if the consequences of it were examined. The revenue of the Foreign Secretary's office consisted of fees, which were taxes raised in an indirect manner on the subject; and if these were not sufficient, the deficiency was supplied out of the Civil List. Therefore, if the pension was paid out of the fees, it was a diversion of indirect taxes to purposes not sanctioned by Parliament; if out of the Civil List, what became of the provisions of Mr. Burke's Bill? These pensions also being granted for life were, in effect, a charge upon the Civil List for a longer time than it was in the power of the monarch to grant—his power being restricted to grants during his own life. The grant was, therefore, invalid, as no similar grant had ever been expressly sanctioned by Parliament; and indeed if such grants were ever made formerly, they could not have come to the knowledge of the House, as the practice of laying before the House all increase of salaries and grants of pensions had not been customary before it was enacted by the 50th of the King. No negligence on the part of Parliament could authorize usurpation; and it was therefore the duty of the House to express its sense as to the grant in question, even if it should be proved that such grants had been before made. This grant was first made known to the House by the Committee on Public Expenditure of 1807; by which it also appeared that the Crown had usurped the power of granting pensions out of the produce of old stores, which was disapproved of by the House, on the express ground that the Crown had no right to charge indirectly the revenue
 [902 l l "That it appearing to this House that certain pensions have been granted by warrants under the Royal sign manual, payable out of the establishment of the office of Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and the monies to be appropriated for the service of the Ordnance, it is necessary to declare that the funds upon which such pensions are charged constitute no part of the revenue of the Crown, and that the said pensions ought not to have been granted without the express consent and authority of this House previously obtained."
 Mr. P. Moore  stated, that the petitioner was ready with witnesses to prove all the allegations in the Petition. Were he in governor Gore's situation, he should strenuously urge his friends to institute an inquiry into his conduct. The case of
 [910
 Mr. P. Moore  concluded by observing, that it was for the honour of governor Gore, that an inquiry should be instituted.
 Mr. P. Moore  resumed. He said, that it appeared, that when governor Gore arrived in Upper Canada, all was harmony and conciliation, but that shortly after the different public officers were turned out to make way for persons of his selection. Thus Mr. Firth was replaced by a youth. Mr. Wyatt having refused to appoint, a deputy of the governor's choosing, was dismissed in three days. The governor made every effort to reduce his government to a simple despotism. The Judge, the Attorney-general, the Sheriffs, all suffered. Even the Speaker of the Lower House had been so intimidated, that, on a proposition for an address to remove the Governor, he gave the casting vote in favour of the Governor; an occurrence which he thought would not have happened in the British Parliament. There was another instance—[Order].
 Mr. Benson , from the long intimacy he had with governor Gore, was unwilling to give a silent vote upon this occasion; but from what had fallen from the noble Secretary of State, and the Under Secretary of State for the Colonial department, it would be unnecessary for him to trespass on the House at any length. Had the hon. Secretary for the Colonial department been induced to entertain the motion for referring the Petition to a committee, he should have been prompted to a full investigation of the allegations of this extraordinary Petition. As to the memorial which the hon. member for Coventry (Mr. P. Moore) had stated to have been sent over from some of the inhabitants of Upper Canada, thanking his royal highness the Prince Regent for the recall of general Gore from his government, he (Mr. Benson) was not disposed to dispute its existence; but he was perfectly aware of the class of people from whom such memorial came:—as well might this country judge of the true sentiments of the loyal inhabitants of the good cities of London and Westminster, by a memorial from the worthies of Palace-yard, as to decide by the memorial alluded to by the hon. member for Coventry, of the sentiments of the respectable body of inhabitants of Upper Canada towards governor Gore. In order to draw the true contrast, he would, with the permission of the House, read part of the Address of the House of Assembly of Upper Canada, unanimously voted to governor Gore on his leaving that country, when his influence there might be considered at an end.—He then
 [912
 Mr. R. Ward  rose, and first addressed
 903] l l [904 l l l
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he could not support the motion for inquiry, and he would state his reasons why he could not. With respect to the petitioner, he knew him well and long; he believed him to be a man of strict integrity, and he was sure the Petition did not contain a single allegation but what he believed to be well founded. When he returned from Canada, he requested him (Mr. Smith) to lay a memorial before the Secretary of State, which, after reading it, he did, together with as strong a recommendation as he felt himself justified in using. That memorial procured to him a certain degree of relief as to certain points which were urged in it: but that relief did not satisfy him, and he then requested him to present his Petition to the House. Upon looking into the Petition, however, and finding the allegations extremely vague, and many of them such as must have existed in the imagination only of the petitioner, he told him he could not undertake to present it, unless he also felt disposed to move something like an impeachment against the Secretary of State, for not paying more attention to the first, memorial, which he certainly was not inclined to do. Upon those grounds, therefore, he should feel it his duty to vote against the motion.
 Sir J. Beresford  bore testimony to the great benefits which were derived from the use of colonel Congreve's rockets, as he had himself witnessed in actual service.
 Sir J. Beresford  spoke strongly in behalf of general Gore's character and conduct, both as governor of Bermuda, and in his present station. On his arrival in this country, he was asked if he knew any reason why governor Gore had dismissed the Attorney-general, and his answer was, that before he left America there was not a voice in that country which did not say that governor Gore had done right, and that it was impossible the colony could go on with such an Attorney-general. He was sure general Gore had acted from the most honourable motives.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that during a residence of twenty years in India, he had always observed that in those regiments where there was the most flogging, there was always the least real discipline. Drunkenness was certainly a dreadful vice, and led to almost all others. But what would they say to a system which first encouraged drunkenness, and afterwards punished it? He was sorry to say that a practice had long been prevalent in India, though it was less so now than formerly, of the commander of regiments admitting grog shops to be kept for his benefit, a certain proportion of the profits having been paid to him by the persons who kept the shops. The consequence was the most dreadful intoxication; and half a dozen of punishments had sometimes been inflicted in one morning for the very vice which was so encouraged. In one regiment, which he would not name, this abuse was carried to such a length that the officers of corps were determined to take it up. On the matter being represented to the commander of the forces, he
 [940
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  proposed a vote of
 917] l.
 Lord Binning  was glad that an explanation had been given, and hoped no encouragement would be given to emigration.
 Mr. Bennet  rose and said:
 Sir Francis Burdett , sir M. W. Ridley, and Mr. Peter Moore, rose at the same time to second the motion.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for the erection of monuments to the memory of generals Hay, Gore, Skerrett, Gibbs, and Gillespie. He wished that this mark of their country's gratitude to officers who fell in its service, should be connected with some general rule in the grant of such tribute. The principle hitherto was, that monuments should be granted to those officers only who fell in actions which had been objects of parliamentary thanks. This principle had hitherto been departed from in no more than two or three instances. But he wished to make the rule of granting monuments depend, on rank, and to lay it down that they should be granted to every officer of the rank of major-general who should fall in his country's service, and be recommended for that tribute by the minister of the Crown, without reference to the magnitude of the service in which he fell. This, he thought, would be beneficial to the country, and an incitement, if, indeed, incitement were necessary, to the valour of her officers. He would now come to the objects of his present motion. The first was major-general Hay, who fell in front of Bayonne, bravely leading on his troops. The next objects of his motion were major-generals Gore and Skerrett, who fell in front of Bergen-op-Zoom, and whose conduct and valour were conspicuous on that as on every other occasion. He should then
 [914 
 1. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that a monument be erected in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, London, to the memory of major-general Andrew Hay, who fell gloriously on the 14th of April 1814, while resisting a sortie made by the garrison of Bayonne. 2. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that a monument be erected in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, London, to the memory of major-generals Arthur Gore and John Byne Skerrett, who fell gloriously while leading the troops to the assault of the fortress of Bergen-op-Zoom, in the night of the 8thand 9th of March 1814. 3. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions, that a monument be erected in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, London, to the memory of major-general Robert Rollo Gillespie, who fell gloriously on the 31st of October, 1814, while leading the troops to an assault on the fortress of Kalunga, in the kingdom of Nepaul. 4. "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions, that a monument be erected in the Cathedral Church of St Paul, London, to the memory of major-general Samuel Gibbs, who fell gloriously
 915]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was known to the Committee, that by the supplemental engagement at Chaumont, this country had engaged to maintain 75,000 men on the Continent, during a year after the conclusion of the Treaty of Paris, or to pay a certain sum towards the maintenance of a force by the Allies. The sum required to comply with this engagement was 355,000 l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then proposed a vote of 10,000 l.
 Mr. Wynn  did not disapprove of the vote; but observed, that as the ground for it was said to be the extension of the library, it was material to observe how that had taken place. It was by a rigorous exactment from Stationers-hall of a copy of every book entered there. A list of these books had been laid before the House—among them was "The Epicure's Calendar, or the Almanack of Good Living"—as the University intended, as appeared from their demand for a copy of this book, to extend its studies to that
 [916
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  allowed, that it would be a great abuse of the Act of Parliament if the books demanded under it were sold; bat he should be surprised if any such practice was found to exist.
 Mr. Abercrombie Robinson  said, that from 1786 downwards, he would venture to say that in the Bengal establishment the practice of commanders of regiments benefitting by the sale of liquors was altogether discouraged.
 Sir F. Burdett  hoped his hon. friend would bring the subject forward early next session, when there should be a more full attendance of the House than at present. With respect to the melancholy and black catalogue which formed the groundwork of the speech of his hon. friend, it was a document which was deserving of the utmost attention. He had at different times himself moved for the black books of regiments, but they had always been withheld. The account of the gallant colonel Palmer was not one which gave him the highest idea of his judgment. The system which he pursued in opposition to that of colonel Quentin, appeared to him as cruel as it was inefficient. For what had been the effects of these dreadful punishments? The system had been going on for eighteen months, and the punishments were as many in the last as in the first month. His hon. friend objected to this punishment—first, because it was brutal, inhuman, and disgraceful; and next, because it was altogether inefficient. Nothing could justify such a punishment but necessity, and the opponents of his hon. friend could show no necessity. In all other armies but our own, or at least in most of them, no such necessity existed. No man would deny that punishment, and even severe punishment, was necessary; but was there no other fit punishment but that of stripping a man naked, tying him up to the halberts, and treating him like a beast? He opposed flogging because it was disgraceful to
 941] [942 régime,
 Sir F. Burdett  explained, that he had made no such assertion, but had merely said, that when a man had been flogged in the navy, he was able immediately to return to the execution of his duties.
 Mr. Bennet  replied. After which the question was put, and negatived without a division.
 Mr. Speaker ;—In consequence of the notice I gave a few nights past, I rise in order to ask leave to bring in a Bill for the purpose of limiting the infliction of Corporal Punishment in the Army. From the frequent discussions which this subject has undergone, and the opinion entertained by the English people concerning it, from a sort of moral feeling having been generated even in the army itself, I had been inclined to hope that the necessity of a legislative enactment would have been superseded; but in this reasonable expectation, I am sorry to find myself disappointed, and that even at this time of the day, this cruel, unmanly, and disgraceful punishment is still inflicted on our gallant soldiery.—I hold in my hand a document which shows clearly both the extent to which this punishment has been, carried, and the severity with which it has been inflicted. It is with pain, however, that I comment upon this document, as it more or less is connected with the professional conduct of my hon. friend (col. Palmer). I can assure him, that there is no one who compassionates—(I beg his pardon)—who feels more indignant at the treatment he and his gallant companions of the 10th Hussars have met with, than myself. Of the shameless injustice, of the cruel, unmerited injuries they have sustained, there can be but one opinion; and I would not have mentioned his name but with praise, if the best interests of the army were not connected with the subject under discussion. Indeed, one of the greatest evils of this system of punishment is, that it familiarizes humane and kind-hearted men with the sight of these scenes of torture; and that they become, contrary to their own nature, cruel and inhumane. This document sets forth, that in the regiment of the 10th Hussars, from the 4th of January 1813, to the same day 1814, 63 men have been flogged, and 35 in the period of the next six months; that the 63 men received 14,000 lashes: that the number of 600, of 500, of 400 lashes, have been inflicted at one time. Gentlemen may, perhaps, not know that there has been a letter written since the discussions on military flogging took place in this House, by the order of the Commander-
 919] [920 921] [922 923] [924
 Mr. Speaker ; I regret extremely to be compelled in any manner to advert to a subject, which although I had pledged myself some time since again to bring forward, I was induced, from particular circumstances, and with the general concurrence of my friends, to relinquish—I mean the Court-martial upon colonel Quentin; but as the worst of the punishments in the 10th Dragoons, which were produced by colonel Quentin upon his trial as matter of accusation against me, have been stated by my hon. friend as the ground of his motion, I trust the House will feel that I am bound in justice to my own character and conduct to enter into an explanation of the facts. The same motive, however, which led me to drop the renewal of the subject, will still prevent me from alluding to any other part of those proceedings which does not immediately relate to the question before the House; and that I way not be misunderstood, I beg to say, that it arises solely from the consideration of colonel Quentin being again in service with his regiment, and the repugnance I feel to any act that may be injurious to him under such circumstances. 925] [926 927] [928 929] [930 931] [932
 Colonel Palmer  continued:—I am very sorry to differ with the hon. member, but must submit to the justice of the House, how far I can be accused of any want of candour to the officer in question. I repeat, and I think I have shown, that nothing could have been further from my wishes than to have troubled the House again upon the subject of this Court-martial, and I have carefully abstained from alluding to any part of the proceedings unconnected with the question; but thus dragged forward as I have been before the House and the public, to answer for my own conduct against a charge brought against me by himself; can it be expected that, out of delicacy to him, I am not to defend myself by every means I can make use of, and which I cannot do more effectually than by exposing the folly and absurdity of his conduct; having good reason to know the effect of all the misrepresentations and ingenuity of his defence upon the trial, and which I own I held too cheap at the time. Nor do I now attack his character in any way but as relating to his want of judgment, as I am far from accusing him of intentional injustice or cruelty in his command; however, I shall only mention one more fact in support of my argument. 933] [934
 Colonel Palmer  rose and said:
 Mr. Horner  said, the measures taken for diverting emigration from one place to another, were necessarily encouragements to emigrants in general.
 Mr. Horner  took the opportunity of observing, that the encouragement given to emigration from Scotland, had been productive of pernicious consequences in that country, by depriving the country of many useful hands, and by producing disquietude among people who before had been perfectly satisfied with their condition. He instanced the estates of a noble friend of his in the north of Scotland. He was happy to hear that those encouragements were not continued, but it would be proper that a distinct declaration to that effect should be made. A more pressing cause for his having brought the subject before the House was, that many of the persons who had applied to emigrate, had been kept in the sea-ports from April to the present time, and had consumed the little stores they had collected by labour, as the means of establishing themselves in the New World. One man with nine children, who had saved fifty guineas, was kept at Glasgow with his family till his store was consumed, and was now obliged to subsist on charity. Something would, he hoped, be done for these persons.
 Mr. Horner  hoped that care would be taken for the due application of the money thus voted. Not only architects should be consulted, but also the professors of the several branches of science, whose accommodation ought to be particularly consulted.
 General Hart  had inspected several regiments, and never observed any insubordination to have arisen from the present practice; on the contrary, he was sure it was often repressed through the terror of this species of punishment.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that no encouragement had been given to emigration; but as the danger in which Canada was during the last war, had arisen from its scanty population, the object of the Government was merely to divert those determined to emigrate from the United States, and change their destination to his Majesty's possessions. As many transports-were to have been sent out to bring home out troops after the conclusion of the war, that circumstance was taken advantage of; but the change of circumstances had changed the destination of those transports, and the facilities were not continued. So far from any undue encouragement being given, the Government demanded a sum for passage-money, and out of thousands who had applied, only 86 families persisted when they knew the terms. As to those who were waiting in Glasgow for the departure of the transports, they had an adequate daily allowance from the day of their arrival there.
 Colonel Pakenham  thought it should be taken into consideration, that the British army was not constituted like any foreign army. In the former there was always the strongest feeling of civil equality, while on the Continent the lower ranks were universally acknowledged as inferior to their officers, of whatever rank. The chief cause of corporal punishment was undoubtedly the sad propensity for drinking. But there was no doubt that the punishment had decreased, not from any orders from head-quarters, but from the high example set by the officers themselves. Nothing could be more just than the system of Courts-martial; all the officers on which swore to administer justice according to their sense of the law and their conscience; and how could it be supposed, if this were not the case, that the men would be so ardent to follow them into danger? This was one of the surest pledges that could be given of attachment between the men and their commanders. He trusted the House would not be influenced in coming to their decision by any thing they had heard respecting the 10th regiment, whose former misconduct no longer existed in it. Respecting the conduct of our army in general, it was exemplary; and on the late invasion of France, it afforded the only instance of an invading army being hailed as a blessing to the nation invaded. The punishment in the navy was four times as heavy as that in the army. He need not advert to this day being the anniversary of the glorious battle of Vittoria, for a practical illustration of the benefit of the system which now governed the army. He should oppose the motion. If the system was bad, let it be overturned; if not, let the officers pursue the mode of discipline which they had been accustomed to administer with so much advantage.
 Mr. Babington  thought, that as the punishment was now administered in a milder manner, there was no occasion for the present motion. It was far better to leave the army to those who had the government of it, than to proceed by a legislative provision, which he did not conceive would prove effectual.
 Mr. W. Dundas  agreed in this opinion, and felt assured that the suggestion would be attended to.
 Mr. Giddy  observed, that when the present Act was in progress through the House, it was held out as an inducement to members to agree to the Bill, that the privileged bodies would not rigorously exact copies of all books published; but the Universities of Cambridge, Aberdeen, Glasgow, Edinburgh, and St. Andrew's and Trinity College, had required a copy of every book published, and Oxford and Sion College had given notice that they should in future make the same demand. He, however, heartily approved of the grant, and recommended that the buildings should be made fire-proof. It was to be regretted that the British Museum was not in that condition.
 Mr. W. Smith  congratulated the country on the mental improvement so visible. He looked back to the time when such a grant would have been refused, and contemplated with great satisfaction the anxiety now so prevalent to afford every assistance to literature.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought the House was bound to argue this question on general grounds only. To say that the discipline of the army, as it now stood, was in no need of alteration, was like arguing against any reform in the English law, because the British constitution had brought the nation to what it was. The punishment of flogging was a system derogatory and disgraceful even to boys, and ought not to be permitted in the army, except in cases of the utmost necessity. It had a tendency to make men, already enlisted, degenerate into every thing that was dis-
 [936
 Mr. Manners Sutton  denied that the object of his hon. friend's measure was to procure some limitation of the punishment. The object of it was to abolish the punishment altogether at home, and to limit it when resorted to abroad. He was sure that his hon. friend and the hon. and learned gentleman would admit, whatever they might think of the proposition, that at least it would occasion a very great alteration in the military jurisdiction of the country. It became necessary, therefore, to inquire, whether existing circumstances demanded so radical a change. It was well known that corporal punishments had within the last years been greatly on the decline. Courts-martial were themselves most anxious to award a different punishment; and the majority of corporal punishments during the period in question had been on the service abroad. With respect to imprisonment, some difficulties had occurred from a want of private cells in prisons; and complaints had been sent to the Horse Guards, of soldiers having been mixed with other prisoners of all descriptions. Sufficient time had not yet elapsed for carrying into execution the measures which had been suggested on this subject. He should be sorry to see this matter interfered with; he believed the reform was at present making its own way better than would be effected by any legislative interference. He could not help thinking that the limiting the number of lashes to 100 would be retaining every thing odious in the punishment, and depriving it of every thing efficacious. It was his firm opinion, that if any limit were assigned to the punishment, the result would be an increased severity, or if not an increased severity, an increased frequency of punishment. The hon. and learned gentleman had alluded to instances of 1500 lashes having been inflicted on one individual. He did not mean to contradict the hon. and learned gentleman; but he had never known of any such punishment having been received, and he thought it had never occurred since he was in office. The court that had awarded such a sentence would have been reprimanded. He was clearly of opinion
 939]
 Sir Edward Buller  denied, that any officer of the navy would take upon himself to discharge a man, without the authority of his commander-in-chief.
 Colonel Wood , in adverting to the system of the 10th Hussars, said, from what he had heard, not only as to the recent condition of that regiment, but as to its past, there was not one in the service more conspicuous for discipline and order. It might be considered invidious to make comparisons between different regiments; but he was informed that the earl of Uxbridge, when he reviewed the cavalry lately, said, that he had long been attempting to make his own regiment, the seventh, the most perfect, but they were surpassed by the tenth. With respect to the motion before the House, he had no doubt the hon. gentleman who brought it forward, was actuated by the most just and humane motives; but he hoped he would also allow that commanding officers might feel as much humanity and compassion for their soldiers. He was ready to admit that corporal punishment might be abolished with the greatest ease in England; but if it were abolished, the consequence would be, that many serious, offences, which were now punished by flogging, such as mutiny, for example, would then be punished with death; and it was certainly a matter worthy of consideration to reflect whether it would be desirable to make such a change in our existing military system. With respect to limiting the number of lashes that should be inflicted, on general service, to one hundred, he did not feel himself qualified to speak upon that point, not having seen foreign service; but he believed that such punishment was inflicted as lightly as possible, consistently with the maintenance of that discipline which was necessary in actual service.
 Sir Egerton Brydges  complained of the oppression under which booksellers laboured, and thought it required the attention of Parliament.
 Sir S. Romilly  represented to the House, that the question before them was not the actual limit of the punishment, but whether it should have any limit at all. When in the last session he had proposed a clause in the Mutiny Bill, limiting the number of lashes to 100, he had been induced to withdraw his proposition by the manifestation of a disposition on the other side, which it now appeared did not exist. At present they might order any number of lashes to be inflicted which they might think proper. Men had been sentenced to receive 5 or 600, and he had heard of an instance in which 1500 had been awarded. It was unjust, and it ought not to be, that they should have authority to doom an individual to greater punishment than God has given him capacity to endure. The reserve on that portion of his sentence which could not be inflicted on an individual without destroying life, it had been customary to deal out (if he might be allowed the expression) by instalments. It was true that the present Commander-in-chief evinced a meritorious disposition to repress the punishment as much as possible, but he might be succeeded by another of different inclination. The milder practice which at present prevailed, was to be ascribed solely to that discussion of the subject, which in the first instance a right hon. gentleman, now no more, had declared would be productive of infinite mischief; but which, on the contrary, had been productive of the greatest benefits. The presence of a surgeon at these punishments, instead of proving their humanity, proved their cruelty, as it showed the danger of the punishment becoming the punishment of death, by the most exquisite torments. He ridiculed the argument
 [938
 Lord Palmerston  opposed the motion, as he thought it was not one at all likely to improve the situation of the army. It was necessary, in the military system of this, as in that of every other country, that the power of inflicting certain severe and exemplary punishments in particular cases should exist. The power at present possessed by Courts-martial aught to be continued, not for the purpose of frequently inflicting severe punishment, but to check offences by the terrors of it. That there was no wish to exercise this power unnecessarily, might be satisfactorily ascertained from the orders issued by the Commander-in-chief, and from the established practice of the army. If it were admitted, as he thought it must be, that there was a disposition on the part of the Commander-in-chief, and in the officers of regiments, to limit the infliction of corporal punishment, so far as it could be done consistently with the public service, it would, he conceived, be seen, that it was better to leave it to be exercised at the discretion of Courts-martial, than to abrogate it altogether. The question could not now, as formerly, be argued on the ground of humanity, since it was no longer contended, that it was proper to bring out a man a second time for punishment, but in very grave and serious cases, where a severe example was necessary. The power of inflicting severe punishments ought to remain. The disposition to indulge in spirituous liquors, which prevailed in the English, as in all the northern armies, caused them to be more liable to commit offences than the soldiers of other nations. The Portuguese, and other foreign soldiers in our
 937]
 General Thornton  moved, "That there be laid before the House, from the General Post-office, a return of the number of persons paying for an early delivery of letters, with the amount paid within the year, and the disposal thereof made up to the latest convenient period; with a statement of the length of time the common delivery is usually retarded or accelerated by such practice, and the Usual difference, of time between the two deliveries, with the date of the commencement of individuals paying for such early delivery, and under what authority it has been carried into effect; together with such information with regard to the Superannuated, or any other charitable fund, as may be connected with the said Return."
 Lord Castleragh  presented the following Message from his royal highnees the Prince Regent:
 "GEORGE  P. R "The Prince Regent, acting in. the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, having taken into his consideration the most important and glorious victory obtained by field-marshal the Duke of Wellington over the French army, under the immediate command of Buonaparté, on the 18th of this month, is desirous of manifesting the sense entertained by his Royal Highness and the country of this signal and splendid achievement, which has added fresh renown to the British arms, and which cannot fail to be productive of the most essential, advantages to Europe. "The Prince Regent therefore recommends to his Majesty's faithful Commons, to enable his Royal Highness to grant such additional provision to field-marshal the Duke of Wellington, as shall afford a further proof of the opinion entertained by Parliament of the Duke of Wellington's transcendant services, and of the gratitude and munificence of the British nation. "GEORGR  P. R
 Lord Castlereagh  moved that his Royal Highness's Message be taken into consideration in a committee of supply to-morrow; on which day also the noble lord said he should have to propose the Thanks of that House to the Duke of Wellington, and his brave officers and soldiers. [Hear, hear!]
 Mr. Graham  concurred in opinion with
 949]
 The chaplain  who had the charge of the Hulks at Portsmouth and Langston Harbour, spoke of the convicts under his care in terms which, if the Committee could have given implicit credit to his representation, would have been very satisfactory; but it was quite clear to all
 [952
 Mr. Bennet  contended, that the Bill had been introduced in June instead of February, because it was known that the attendance of members would be thin, and that it would thereby escape much discussion. Conceiving that the Report of the Committee on the punishment of transportation to Botany Bay had been miserably defective, he pledged himself in the next session (if no one better qualified should undertake the task) to move for a committee to inquire not only into that subject, but into the state of the Hulks, and the Police of the metropolis.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that
 969]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the mode in which he proposed to apply the principle adverted to by his hon. friend. The compensation which the Bank would pay at present would be 87,000 l l
 Mr. Forbes  thought the Bank should be put on the same footing with private bankers; and by the accounts which he had moved for on a former day, of the number of notes of each description in circulation, it would be in the power of the House to calculate to a shilling the sum which should be paid.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he considered the public faith so far. pledged to the Bank, that a revision of the present engagements with them could not take place without their consent. He wished to suggest that consideration to the hon. gentleman, at the same time pledging himself to reconsider the subject.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion the public faith was not pledged to the Bank, anymore than to individuals who compounded for the dog duty as packs of hounds. He suggested that the duly should be taken off the patents of sheriffs, which only produced 2,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would take that subject into consideration. The office of sheriff was certainly one which, neither on account of its profit or pleasure, was a fair subject of taxation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after an examination of the subject, he was convinced of the impracticability of any arrangement.
 Mr. Forbes  said a few words in support of the proposition of Mr. Grenfell.
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that as the hon. gentleman's remarks applied rather to the details than to the principle of the Bill, they would be more appropriate in the committee than on the present occasion. But as to the classification of the prisoners on board the Hulks, and securing their due separation, he feared that such a system could never be found so practicable in the Hulks as in those penitentiaries which were justly the subject of the hon. member's panegyric. The utmost effort would, however, be made to improve the arrangements in the Hulks; and with that view it was intended to construct seven or eight different compartments, among which the prisoners would be distributed by the governors, with the approbation of others, according to the degree of their crimes, the actual or probable reform of their morals, and the decency of their manners. Thus he hoped that provision would be made to guard against the general contamination which was justly to be apprehended from the indiscriminate intercourse of different descriptions of prisoners. He could assure the House, that nothing was neglected that promised to benefit the system of imprisonment under consideration. In order to encourage the reformation of prisoners in the Hulks, it
 [966
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that the Bill must pass, but that he had no objection to limit its duration.
 Mr. C. Smith  observed, that the Bank should always be regarded by the House with a favourable eye, for having afforded great assistance to the public, as well as for having been a main support of our commerce in the late war.
 Mr. Holford  rose and said:
 Mr. Bankes  bore testimony to the merit of Mr. Grenfell, as the gentleman to whom this arrangement was owing. He thought no indulgence was due to the Bank, as it had derived great profit from
 [970
 Mr. Butterworth  wished to suggest the propriety of some regulation as to the percentage on wills and administrations.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that when the Bill was again referred to a committee, he should propose a clause to carry into effect his ideas of the proper arrangement to be made with the Bank.
 Mr. Grenfell  expressed the satisfaction which he felt at the adoption by his right hon. friend, of the principle with respect to the Bank compensation for stamps that had been pointed out to him in the first instance, although he differed from him as to the application of that principle. He recommended that the average should be taken, not of the last three years, but of the last twelvemonth. He observed, that in consequence of the oversight on this subject of his right hon. friend's predecessors, the public had lost, and the Bank of England had gained, many hundreds of thousands of pounds.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the present state of the laws connected with the assize of bread, and said that it was his intention to conclude by moving for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal those laws, so far as they affected the assize of bread in London, find ten miles round. It was the opinion of the Committee, who had most attentively and most laboriously examined the subject, that the operation of the Assize laws tended rather to increase than diminish the price of bread. That such must be their effect, indeed, might be proved either by comparing the price of bread with the price of wheat, by comparing its price in those places where the assize prevailed, with what it was where no assize existed, or considering what must be the consequences from the construction and operation of the law. The hon. member, after showing, by a variety of facts, the troth of this effect, moved, "That leave be given to bring in a Bill to repeal the Laws relating to the Assize of Bread, in the city of London, and within ten miles of the Royal Exchange."—Leave was accordingly given.
 Mr. Mellish  said, that all the merit of the arrangement with the Bank was not due to the hon. gentleman (Mr. Grenfell), because that arrangement was founded on the consent of the Bank itself. The year 1814 was one in which the expenditure had been very great, which was the cause of the increased issues of the Bank in that year; it would be therefore unfair to take the average of that year as a scale for the amount of duties.
 Mr. W. Smith  regretted that the measure had not been brought forward at an earlier period of the session, but thought that some of the excellent suggestions of his hon. and learned friend might still be introduced into it.
 Mr. Wilberforce  expressed a similar opinion; and dwelt on the improvement among the lower orders which the newly-adopted mode of general education was calculated to produce.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  strongly objected, not merely to the details, bat to the principle of the Bill under consideration; because by that Bill it was proposed to perpetuate a system of transportation, which was found utterly ineffective for the purpose it professed. The rational object of all punishments, short of death, was obviously to reform the offender. But those who suffered transportation were generally initiated in new crimes, introduced to worse habits, and in every respect disposed to much more mischief to society; than they were inclined to, or qualified for, before their transportation. The question, then, for the House to consider on this occasion, was, whether a system, found so defective, ought to be continued; for the Bill under discussion referred to transportation as well as to the hulks. With respect to the latter, he saw no reason why any large number of prisoners should be confined together in one vessel; but he objected to the system of the Hulks altogether, whether they were to be used as a place of punishment, or for the temporary confinement of persons meant to be transported. In either case these Hulks were exceptionable, especially as no provision was or could be made in such
 967] [968
 Lord Castlereagh,  in rising to call the attention of the House to the last splendid triumph of the British arms, was at a loss to express the feelings which he experienced in common with all who heard him. On various occasions he had had the honour to address them on the exploits of that illustrious Commander, who was the subject of the motion with which, he should conclude; but never, even among the mighty achievements which had swelled our military renown, since that exalted character was placed at the head of our army, had it been his lot to submit to Parliament a proposition founded on an event so glorious as that which called for the expression of their gratitude this day. The present was a triumph of such a character, that, without disparagement, to those actions in which his great genius had formerly displayed itself, he might say of it—it had never happened, even to him, to confer so great a benefit on his country before. It was an achievement of such high merit, of such pre-eminent importance, as had never perhaps graced the annals of this or any other country till now; and when considered, not only with a view to the immediate loss inflicted on the enemy, but with reference to the moral effect which it must be expected to produce on the war now commenced, in the issue of which the fate of this country, of Europe, and the world were so closely bound up, it must be felt that it opened to our view a prospect so cheering, and so transcendently bright, that no language could do justice to the feelings it must naturally inspire. He sincerely felt this to be one of those instances in which the victory gained must be depreciated by the inadequacy of language faithfully to represent the vast service performed. He might, therefore, do best to abstain from offering any observations of his own, to introduce the vote which he had to propose, satisfied, as he was, that those to whom he addressed himself, would act from what their own feelings, their own understandings, and their own hearts suggested, and not upon any thing that might fall from him. But there were some distinguished features in this victory which he could not be content to pass over in silence. It must be felt, that there was in this case something in the situation of the hostile armies, which, without at all detracting from the high merit and military skill of the great commanders, who placed the
 981] [982 983] [984 985] [986 nemine contradicente.
 Lord Custlereagh  begged shortly to call the attention of the House to the distinguished merit of the prince of Orange, who stood first in the next Resolution he should have to propose. It was a proud reflection for Europe, that in that illustrious young warrior they had a soldier bred in the school, and in the principles of the duke of Wellington. He had already distinguished himself in war, and it was to be hoped that the whole course of his life would prove him true to those principles which he had received from that distinguished chief, and anxious to contribute in every possible way to the peace and happiness of Europe. To show that the sentiments of the prince of Orange had already produced the best spirit in the Netherlands, he referred to a letter which he had received from the Dutch Ambassador, in which it was stated, that nothing could exceed the good conduct and the fidelity of the Belgians to the
 987] nem. con. [988
 Sir Francis Burdett  did not mean to oppose the motion, but he wished to take that opportunity of saying a few words on a subject which he had much at heart. He concurred in all that the noble lord had said with respect to the great merit of the officers and men in our army; but there was one observation which had been made by him, that was of a tendency to create a difference of opinion, which on this occasion it was most desirable to avoid. He alluded to what had been said by the noble lord of the consolation which the relations of those who had fallen would derive from the justice of the cause in which those they mourned had fought. It would be invidious to go into this subject now, but he thought it was not fair in the noble lord to hold such language with respect to that on which he knew such different opinions prevailed, on an occasion like the present; when those who denied the justice of the cause, must either seem to acquiesce in the description thus given of it, or be compelled to appear unwilling to assent to the motion for a vote of thanks where it was so well deserved. Whatever opinions might exist on the justice and expediency, or the injustice and inexpediency of the present war, there could be but one opinion as to the merit of the English and their Allies in the late struggle—there could be but one opinion on the surpassing glory with which their efforts had on this occasion been crowned. What he would wish to propose was this, that the troops who had deserved so well of the country, should receive a more substantial reward than a vote of thanks, however great the honour might be of a vote of thanks from that House. He wished to lay in his claim for an amelioration of the present military system, and hoped, when the Mutiny Bill should be brought in next year, gentlemen would not think that the English soldier, who had deserved so much of his
 989] nem. con.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and observed, that the opinion which the House had just expressed as to the merits of the distinguished individual to whom he also had to call their attention, would relieve him from the necessity of saying much to induce them to concur in the vote he should have the honour of proposing. He was anxious, however, to state some peculiar circumstances connected with it. It had long been the opinion of that House and of the public, that there was no extent of honours, or of pecuniary provision, which could be equal to the glorious services achieved by that great captain; but still, as honours and rewards were the only means by which the approbation of Parliament, or the gratitude of the nation could be testified, it became their pleasing duty to confer those tokens upon him. Very liberal sums had undoubtedly been voted already; though, at the same time, large as these were, he was convinced that all who heard him would agree that they were not so large as the rank which the Crown had bestowed upon him required. He wished to state, that since the resolution of the House last session, and since the passing of the Act by which it was carried into effect, much inquiry had been instituted by the trustees to find a suitable estate and mansion for the duke of Wellington, but they had not as yet been completely successful. Many designs, also, for erecting a dwelling had been submitted by various artists, whose uniform opinion it was, that a smaller sum than from 150 to 200,000 l. [990 l. l. 991]
 Sir W. W. Wynn  would prefer a grant of
 993] fleur-de-lis.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, if a suitable mansion could be obtained at less expense than that which would be incurred by building one, not to adopt the former course, but to erect a palace, would be to sacrifice some of the comforts of the duke of Wellington to national splendour.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged leave to add this observation, that the army of France which was beaten was a select army, composed of picked troops; whereas the army of the duke of Wellington was not a select army in any senses of the word. Even the British troops that were with him, were only such as the country could spare him, at a time that a strong detachment of its most veteran troops had been sent to America, and had not yet returned.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to propose a grant for the amount of stores captured by the army under the duke of Wellington, during the whole series of campaigns in the Peninsula, to be distributed among the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, their widows and children. The right hon. gentleman stated, that the grant now proposed, was the fruit of twelve general battles, and five sieges; and formed also the value of the stores captured on a variety of other occasions. He stated, that this was not near the actual value of the captures, as a great portion had been delivered over to the auxiliary troops serving under the duke in the Peninsula. The amount of the grant proposed was 800,000 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that so far from taking the House by surprise, in consequence of the auspicious news which had excited the most generous feelings towards the army, he had given notice of his intention to move this grant
 995]
 Mr. Rose  observed that there was nothing new in the principle of the grant. It was thought fit to put the army on the same footing as the navy, in regard to prize-money, as the navy had, from time immemorial, been entitled by Act of Parliament to the proceeds of their captures. This principle had long been acknowledged and acted upon.
 Mr. Forbes  observed, that from what had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it appeared that the sum claimed by the army amounted to 900,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 Lord Castlereagh  conceived there could be no danger in agreeing to the vote. It would be deemed extremely unjust and unfair to do less by an act of prerogative in regard to the army than had been done by an Act of Parliament in regard to the navy. It had been a principle, from time immemorial, to give to the navy the value of all the captures they made. But with, respect to the army, Government did not buy from them the whole of the stores and property that they captured, but only what was serviceable and useful. Perhaps, if the particular stores in question, which included a vast quantity of provisions, had not been purchased at the time of their capture, our army in the Peninsula might have been in the utmost want of supplies. The grace of the Crown allowed what was valuable to be purchased, and the remainder of the property was got rid of by the army how they could. The vote of the House ought, therefore, to make good the value of what the public bought from them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  next moved, "That a sum not exceeding 534,713 l. 997] l.;
 Sir C. Burrell  wished to be informed, why no reply had been given to the Address of the House, respecting the regulation of the Household, and whether it was intended to defer the answer till the next session?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the estimates had not yet been received; but he certainly concluded, that his Royal Highness would be recommended to give an answer to the Address before the rising of Parliament.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that a specific provision had been made for the liquidation of those debts which were ascertained when his Royal Highness assumed the Regency. A considerable portion had been discharged, and in no long time the remainder would be liquidated, when an appropriation of 50,000 l.
 Mr. Barclay  was of opinion, that some provision should be made for the liquidation of his Royal Highnesses debts, and also that some arrangements should be made respecting the other branches of the Royal family.
 Mr. Bankes  expressed his approbation of the sum proposed to be granted, and agreed in thinking that the farther consideration of the subject of the Civil List could be better discussed in the next session of Parliament than now. It might be proper to grant an increase of allowance, as the expenditure had progressively increased, in consequence of the price of all articles of consumption having rapidly advanced since the accession of his Majesty, and particularly in latter times; but he trusted, when this increase should be made, that as much
 [998
 Mr. Bankes , adverting to the right of the disposal of captured property being vested in the Crown, and to the grant arising from an intimation of the Prince Regent to resign this right in favour of the army, wished to know when and how such an intimation had been given? The appropriation of the sum seemed altogether completely new. He should like to accede to what had been done on former occasions; but was not inclined to agree to any vote that should have the consequence of rendering the war we were now engaged in more expensive to the country than it otherwise would be.
 General Gascoyne  contended that the receipt of the value of captured stores had long been considered a matter of right with the army. It was usual for the army to estimate the amount of their prize-money by attaching the value of twenty guineas to each gun that they captured.
 Mr. Calcraft  contended, that this was a vote of right, and saw no reason why the army should be deprived of it, any more than of stars and ornaments which were bestowed on them as designations of their bravery. He was sure that no man would hesitate to vote double the sum, though they might vote it with stronger feelings of their hearts on a day like this.
 Mr. Preston  objected to the motion. He thought the right hon. gentleman had chosen a most injudicious time to bring it forward; besides which, he did not conceive there were precedents for such an application of the public money, and was averse from breaking in upon the practice of our ancestors. If such distributions were fit to be a law of the land, an act ought to pass for them; and the army, would then be entitled to their regular benefit. It was a bad precedent for future times, and particularly for an army which had been paid as our army had been in the Peninsula.
 Mr. R. Ward  affirmed, that it was a vested right belonging to the army, and that so far as the Ordnance department was concerned, there was every year an item in the estimates of money for ordnance stores which were captured.
 Mr. Whitbread  thought, as the resolution of the House stated the victory to have been gained over the French army under the immediate command of Buonaparté, it would be unnecessary to add that the duke of Wellington had triumphed over the greatest captain of his age. nem. con.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that he had not the slightest intention of opposing the grant, as it was the only means now left for the nation to testify its gratitude, beyond that vote of thanks which they had just passed. It remained for the duke of Wellington to do that, which he alone could do, to add to his own great military fame; and he had indeed done more than was ever done, he believed, by any single commander [Hear, hear!]. It was undoubtedly gratifying to the House, and it must be gratifying to the country, to hear those individual traits of heroism in that illustrious chief, and especially the one which the right hon. gentleman had related, connected as it was with his entire confidence in the bravery and fidelity of his troops. If such a trait were recorded in history, as having occurred ten centuries ago, with what emotions of admiration and generous enthusiasm would it be read—[Hear, hear!]. To see a commander of his eminence, distinguished above all the commanders of the earth, throw himself into a hollow square of infantry, as a secure refuge, till the rage and torrent of the attack was passed, and that not once only, but twice or thrice in the course of the battle, proved that his confidence was placed not in any one particular corps, but in the whole British army—[Hear, hear!]. In that mutual confidence lay the strength and power of the British troops. The duke of Wellington knew he was safe, when he thus trusted himself to the fidelity and valour of his men, and they knew and felt that the sacred charge thus confided to them, could never be wrested from their hands [Hear, hear!]. He should have been sorry if the votes of that day had passed without his presence, to express his most unfeigned approbation of them. With respect to the loss that had been sustained, and which had plunged so many illustrious families in affliction, he could not advert to that loss without dissenting from an expression used by the noble lord, and lamenting the grievous fact, that they had fallen in the prosecution of a war into which this country had
 [992
 Colonel Gore Langton  expressed his warm sense of the merits of the duke of Wellington, and was convinced that no individual in the country, from the first peer to the lowest peasant, would grudge his share of the contribution.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he wished it were possible that some other mode could be devised of rewarding such transcendent merit as the duke of Wellington's, instead of a pecuniary compensation. However, as all other modes of approbation were exhausted, he must at least express his desire, that the sum now voted should be employed in the erection of a palace, rather than in purchasing one. Every Briton must look at Blenheim with emotions of pride and satisfaction very different from what would be felt if it were merely a house that had been built for another, and purchased for the duke of Marlborough. For his own part, he would rather add 50,000 l.
 Mr. William Smith  complained of the great excess in the Civil List during the three last years, and declared that he gave his vote for the sum with great reluctance. The money, however, must be paid, as the loss would otherwise fall on those who ought not to suffer. If the regulations and arrangements proposed by the select committee upon the Civil List should be adopted, the expense of the Crown would be kept within due limits, and future applications to Parliament for the liquidation of debts would be avoided.
 Sir T. Acland  could not but feel anxious to mark the sense of the nation on this victory in the most distinct manner; and he should be much disposed to favour the idea of building a palace, if he did not feel that any suitable mansion purchased for the duke of Wellington in consequence of a vole of that House, would bear the same character which would attach to a palace purposely erected for him. If he thought the effect would not be the same, he would willingly consent to a grant of half a million or a whole one to accomplish so desirable an object. The duke of Wellington had greatly raised the military character of England. In India his conduct obtained for him the approbation of his country: he had been praised as the saviour of Spain and Portugal. One thing only was wanting to complete his own glory and that of his country—a triumph over him who was said to have conquered every other general to whom he had been opposed. This object was gained. It was reserved for his last triumph, to supply all that was wanting to the consummation of his glory. Many had heretofore doubted what would be the result of a contest in which he and Buonaparté fought hand to hand; that doubt was gone for ever. We now saw renewed the splendid days of Cressy and Agincourt, and this we owed to the duke of Wellington, who had now gained the last triumph necessary for his own fame, or for that of his country. This he could wish to have recorded in their proceedings.
 Sir W. W. Wynn  expressed his approbation of the vote; but suggested, with a view to commemorate the glorious cause of such a grant, that the same terms should be annexed to it as those upon which the duke of Marlborough held Blenheim, namely, the annual presentation to his Majesty of a flag with a fleur-de-lis. The hon. baronet also thought that some Crown lands should be appropriated to the duke of Wellington, upon which to erect the proposed mansion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred with the hon. baronet, that the performance of some honorary service would be a proper and becoming appendage to the proposed grant. But as to the observation respecting the Crown lands, it would be seen, upon a review of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of those lands, that no such grant could be made as the hon. baronet recommended; that, in fact, no adequate estate for the use of the duke of Wellington could be had from those lands.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that an adequate estate for the duke of Wellington might be made from the New Forest. He differed from the last speaker, that the sum voted on this occasion was insufficient; for it was to be considered, that in addition to the 700,00,0 l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that the proportion alluded to would amount only to 50,000 l
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that even with that addition, the amount of the remuneration would be quite sufficient, and worthy of the munificence of the country—equally honourable, indeed, to the giver and to the receiver.
 Sir C. Burrell  observed, that even if a suitable quantity of Crown lands could be obtained for the purpose under consideration, such ground would not be so much for the benefit of the duke of Wellington, as an estate in cultivation. He recommended that the object be rather to lay out the sum voted in the purchase of a suitable estate, than in the erection of a large mansion, because the latter would be liable to decay, to fire, and to other accidents—of course it could not be regarded as an imperishable monument of national gratitude.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that this vote was brought under the consideration of the House as soon as it was practicable, quite as soon indeed as it could have been if the Bill had been adopted, for which the right hon. gentleman was an advocate, at an early period of the session. For the accounts respecting the Civil List were laid before the House as soon as that Bill required, and these accounts were immediately referred to a committee, upon whose report the present was founded. He should not enter into the general discussion at present, as he did not mean to propose any legislative measure until the next session but he hoped that during the recess, gentlemen would thoroughly examine the Report of the Committee, and upon such examination he was persuaded they would come to a conclusion very different from that stated by the right hon. gentleman. It would be seen, indeed, that this Report made an accurate distinction between the hereditary and the temporary revenue of the Crown. The hereditary revenue was in fact the grant made upon the abolition of the feudal rights of the Crown, and he was fully prepared to maintain the assertion, that his Majesty was a loser by the commutation of that revenue for the produce of the Civil List.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that if the Crown had possessed an improvable revenue instead of a fixed one, as was the case with
 1001] l
 Mr. Wynn  denied that the hereditary revenue of the Crown was beyond the control of Parliament. If the amount of that hereditary revenue exceeded what Parliament might think necessary for the expenditure of the Civil List, the Crown was bound to apply the surplus towards the payment of the army, navy, or any other branch of expenditure which Parliament might propose; and he would instance, as a proof, "he case of king William, whose hereditary revenue was charged with an additional expense of 100,000 l
 Lord Binning  vindicated the Report of the Committee, as being drawn up in the only way that could render its inquiries useful.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that it did not require the Report of the Committee to prove what the noble lord had said.
 Mr. Tierney  contended, that the hereditary revenue ought to have been distinguished from the temporary.
 Mr. Tierney  took occasion to observe, that this subject was, as he had apprehended long since, brought forward at too late a period of the session to undergo any due dicussion. Such a discussion could not indeed take place, as the House knew scarcely any thing of the items of the account to which this Resolution for 534 713 l [1000
 Mr. Whitshed Keene  thought that, comparing the services of the duke of Marlborough with those of the duke of Wellington, the grant to the latter was still insufficient: the sum voted to the duke of Wellington would not, in his opinion, purchase an estate of more than 14,000 l l 999]
 Mr. Mellish  having moved his Resolutions concerning the Bank of England, a conversation ensued, in which Mr. Mellish, Mr. Tierney. Mr. Grenfell, and Mr. Manning participated. It was at length agreed, that the discussion on the Resolutions proposed by Mr. Grenfell and Mr. Mellish should be adjourned to that day se'ennight. The following is a copy of the Resolutions proposed by Mr. Mellish:— l [1002 l s d l l l l s d l l s d l l s d l l l l s d l s d l l l l 1003] l d l l l l l 
 
 1795, Feb. 1, £12,735,520; Aug. 1, £11,214,000 
 1796, Feb. 1, £10,784,740; Aug. 1, £ 9,856,110 
 1814, Feb. 1, £25,154,950; Aug. 1, £28,802,450 
 
 Public Balances on an average of one year ending Jan. 15, 1800 £1,724,747 
 Unclaimed Dividends for the average of one year ending Jan. 1, 1800 837,966 
 £2,562,713 
 Public Balances on an average of eight years, from 1807 to 1815 4,375,405 
 Unclaimed Dividends on an average of eight years, from 1807 to 1815 634,614 
 £5,010,019 [1004 l l l l 
 
 £11,966,371. Including Bank-notes deposited at the Exchequer, amounting to 642,264 l 
 £11,324,107. Excluding Bank-notes deposited at the Exchequer. l l l l l l l 
 
 That the Interest of 3,000,000 l l £900,000 
 That the difference between 51. per cent, and 5 l l 4,908,456 
 That the above Loan of 3,000.000 l l 1005] 
 
 the Public of 2 l l 520,000 
 That in 1803 the Bank advanced to the Public 3,000,000 l 1,200,000 
 
 That the average amount of the Public Balances in the bands of the Bank, between the 1st of February 1814 and the 15th January 1815, upon accounts opened at the Bank previously to the renewal of the charter on the 28th March 1800, was £4,337,025 
 Unclaimed Dividends, for the average of one year ending 1st January 1815 779,794 
 £5,116,819 
 That the average of Public Balances in the hands of the Bank during the same period, upon accounts opened at the Bank between the 28th March 1800 and the 27th Feb. 1808, was £370,018 
 That the average of Public Balances in the hands of the Bank during the same period, upon accounts opened at the Bank subsequent to the 27th Feb. 1808, was 261,162.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented the following
 [1006 "GEORGE  P. R. "The Prince Regent, acting In the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, thinks it proper to acquaint this House, that a Marriage, to which the consent of his Royal Highness was duly given, has been solemnized between his brother the Duke of Cumberland and a daughter of the reigning Duke of Mecklenberg Strelitz, niece to her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and relict of the Prince Salms Braunfels. "The many proofs which this House has afforded of their affectionate attachment to his Majesty's person and family, leave the Prince Regent no doubt of their readiness to enable his Royal Highness to make such provision for their Royal Highnesses on this occasion as the rank and station of their Royal Highnesses may appear to require."
 Mr. Bennet  begged leave to inquire of the right hon. gentleman opposite, whether he knew it to be the intention of the noble lord to submit any proposition to the House in consequence of the Message which had been that day brought down respecting the marriage of the duke of Cumberland, and if a grant was to be proposed, he wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman could state the probable amount of that grant?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was evident from the terms of the Message that a proposition for a grant to the duke of Cumberland would be made; but to what extent it might be, he was not at present prepared to say.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that no unusual or unnecessary delay had occurred in making the communication to Parliament; and with respect to the intended amount of the grant, he believed such a question had never been asked, nor such a communication ever made, till
 1007]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  presented the following Message from the Prince Regent:
 "GEORGE  P. R. "The Prince Regent, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, considering that it may be of very great importance to provide for such emergencies as may arise, and relying on the experienced zeal and affection of the House of Commons, trusts that this House will enable him to take such measures as the exigency of affairs may require."
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that as he did not apprehend the motion he should have the honour of submitting to the House would meet with any opposition, it would not be necessary for him to enter into any detailed observations upon the subject. The House was aware that a committee had been appointed this session, similar to that which had been appointed on a former session, to inquire into the state of the finances of Ireland; that committee, after very mature deliberation, made a Report, which, in consequence of the very voluminous Appendix which was subjoined to it, could not be printed and delivered to the members before this day; he should therefore deem it unfair to enter into any discussion upon the subject now, even if he did not intend to submit the motion with which he should have the honour
 [1008
 General Thornton  was anxious that the
 [1010
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for going into a consideration of the Report of the Stamp Duties Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested, that as little time should be lost as possible in the present advanced state of the session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after the candid manner in which his hon. friend had stated his wish for a postponement of the business he would not press it at present; but would take the opinion of the Speaker whether the amendments proposed might not be taken on the Report, as it would tend materially to expedition, if the other parts could be taken into immediate consideration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  appealed to the authority of the Chair.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the tax had originated with queen Anne, and if it was objectionable, the ministers of the present day were not liable to reprehension as its inventors. It had hitherto been a productive tax, and in the present state of the country, he did not feel that he should be authorized in abandoning it.
 General Thornton  suggested the expediency of imposing a tax on pamphlets, similar to that on newspapers, by which they could be sent post-free. This, he thought, would be more productive to the revenue, and would tend materially to the diffusion of knowledge.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that any person might now have their pamphlets stamped in this way, and seat post-free.
 Mr. Thornton  said, that when the hon. gentleman should make his motion for augmenting the Stamp Duties on the Bank, he, and the gentlemen concerned in conducting its affairs, would be prepared to defend the composition it had made. He should also be ready to affirm, that the exemption from stamp-duty, on payment of the then composition, was considered in the price of the charter. He complained that the hon. gentleman should indulge in reflections on the Bank, and depreciate the high character and credit of that corporation, which had rendered such essential service to the public, when the business was not before the House in a state that admitted his reflections to be answered.
 Mr. Forbes and Mr. Majoribanks  also offered some observations respecting the notes of Country Banks, and particularly adverted to the heavy operation which the Act would have on the Banks of Scotland. The latter gentleman expressed his hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would drop the tax altogether, as it was intended to affect the Scotch notes.
 The Speaker  expressed his opinion to be, that such a clause could not be introduced on the Report, because by the clause now standing in the Bill a tax was
 1013]
 The Speaker  called him to order, observing, that upon giving notice of a proceeding, it was not regular to enter into a statement of reasons.
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  had no objection to the Bill, but wished that the bakers should be protected.
 Mr. Tierney  thought it would be better to pass such a measure at the commencement rather than at the end of a session, because there would then be time to mark its operation, and to amend it if found deficient.
 Mr. Tierney  asked the right hon. gentleman if he could inform the House when the marriage took place, and why the communication which had now been made was so long delayed? He thought it would have been but fair, to inform the House what was the nature of the provision intended to be proposed.
 Mr. Bankes  said, he should follow the example of moderation which the right hon. gentleman had set to him, and abstain from entering into the discussion at present. In all that he had said of the importance and magnitude of the subject he fully concurred: he concurred, too, in the propriety of deferring the consideration until the next session. He was one of those who differed from the right hon. gentleman and from the majority of the committee, in opinion respecting the constitution of the 7th Article of the Act of Union. He thought they had taken an erroneous view of the whole question. He did not deny, however, that many good results might follow from the adoption of the recommendation of the committee, and from the proposed union of the two exchequers. He could not avoid
 1009]
 Mr. Bankes  said, that this was a subject of the utmost importance, and he would not suppose his right hon. friend could think of bringing it forward in so very thin a House. He was undoubtedly in their power, but he did not wish to take advantage of there not being a House, in order to impede the business of his Majesty's Government. The public, however, were at the same time so materially interested in many points of this subject, which remained yet unsettled, that he hoped his right hon. friend would name some day for a discussion of the subject, when a fuller attendance might be expected.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  thought that the House should be very cautious how they overturned a system which had stood the test of 700 years. The principle of the Assize Law was, in his opinion, unobjectionable, although the mode of taking the assize was imperfect, and réquired modification. It was known that the chandlers settled among themselves the price at which candles should be sold per dozen, and would it not be better for the public that this price should be settled by the magistrates than by interested parties?
 Mr. Calcraft  expressed a wish that this motion should be postponed, as he, among others, who applied, had not yet been able to obtain from the Vote-office a copy of the Report of the committee upon which the Bill was, founded. This was, besides, a matter of such general interest, that he thought it ought not to be passed until the next session, in order that the public should have sufficient opportunity to consider its merits. For himself, he declared an inability to comprehend how the public could be benefited by a measure of this nature. There was no assize law as to beer, and yet that article had not become cheaper on that account. The assize law only fixed the maximum at which bread should be sold, but by no means prevented bakers from selling at a cheaper rate if they thought proper.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he had an amendment of considerable importance to propose relative to the composition which had been made with the Bank respecting the stamps on their notes. As the Act stood, that composition had been made on an average of three years: now he thought that it should be on the average of the last year. By the clause now in the Bill, the Bank would pay 87,500 l. l.
 Mr. R. Smith  declared, that he had not yet seen the Report alluded to.
 Mr. Whitbread  concurred in the opinion expressed by his right hon. friend, and thought that it would be better to make the Bill as perfect now as possible, and then leave it to be taken up again and passed at the beginning of the next session.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, that one argument, and a very strong one, for passing the measure now might cease to exist at the Commencement of the next, or of any Other session; he meant the present low price of corn; at the same time he was disposed to meet the wishes of the House.
 Mr. F. Lewis  argued at some length in support of the Bill. The total repeal of the Assize Law would, he said, alone be effectual, and this was demonstrated by a mass of evidence examined before the Committee; from which it appeared, that no modification would avail to produce the desired effect. The Assize Law had, in fact, uniformly served to render bread dearer instead of cheaper, and bread was notoriously lower in those places where no Assize Law prevailed. The hon. alderman (Atkins) bad no doubt asserted the tendency of this law to reduce the price of bread, and yet that alderman was among those who contributed so much to agitate the public some time ago, by alledging, that if wheat were at 80 s. d. l., l. s. 1011]
 Mr. F. Lewis  regretted, that the hon. gentleman should experience any difficulty in procuring the Report of the Committee; but he saw no reason why the second reading should be delayed, as the measure had been already so long under consideration, and as the session was not likely to continue many days.
 Mr. Giddy  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would abandon the tax upon periodical publications and pamphlets, and upon the advertisements which the publishers of those works attached to their covers, announcing such other works as were in a state of publication. He considered such a course important to the diffusion of knowledge; and as the produce of the tax was but trifling, he hoped the right hon. gentleman would adopt his suggestion.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that he did not desire to persevere, but he thought it his duty to take the earliest opportunity of objecting to any proposed addition to the burthens of the country.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  announced his intention of opposing the grant of any further sum of money, because he could see no reason to call for the additional provision, under existing circumstances. The hon. baronet was proceeding, when
 Sir Francis Burdett,  in pursuance of his notice, rose to call the attention of the House to the invention of Mr. Mallison, for preserving the lives of shipwrecked mariners. This subject, indeed, had been frequently before them, and he was quite at a loss to conceive on what grounds they could refuse to inquire into the expediency of adopting the invention. The Report of the Committee appointed to examine into the benefits to be produced by this invention had declared, that it would tend to save many valuable lives; and, indeed, it was obvious to him, that Mr. Mallison had applied the power of cork to a purpose more beneficial than was ever before known. If this were true, the House ought not to refuse to make him an adequate remuneration, particularly as large sums had been voted to other gentlemen for their inventions. Captain Manby and Lieutenant Bell had received considerable compensations for their services to the public, and there existed no reason whatever why Mr. Mallison should be neglected. His invention was not only useful to the navy, but also to the army, as it would tend to save men who were wrecked in transports at sea; and when it was considered that 19,000 men of all descriptions had pe-
 1019]
 Mr. Rose  said, that the plan of Mr. Mallison had been tried in his presence, as a member of the committee to inquire into the merits of the invention; and his cork jackets did certainly serve to keep men afloat, who were incapable of swimming. But the cork jackets of Mr. Mallison proved to be really little more than the ordinary cork jackets. Yet Mr. Mallison had been rewarded for his invention, for be had been granted 100 l [1020
 Mr. Rose  stated, that the Secretary for the Home department and the Admiralty, vied with each other in promoting the use of captain Manby's invention, and in consequence no less than 120 stations were already fixed upon where materials where to be placed, in readiness for the execution of this meritorious plan for saving the lives of seamen.
 Mr. Wynn  hoped that no means would be neglected by his Majesty's ministers to bring that most beneficial invention into general use. Upwards of a hundred lives had already been saved by it. He thought, however, that some compensation should be given, not only to the men who lost their boats, but also to the families of such as perished in their exertions; for
 1021]
 Mr. Rose  replied, that the measure recommended by the hon. gentleman already formed part of the plan.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that a right hon. member had stated, that Mr. Mallison's plan could not be called an invention, on account of its great simplicity; but he should think, that that fact constituted its greatest merit. As to what had been mentioned respecting a compensation to the families of those who lost their lives under captain Manby's plan, he thought it would be a much cheaper and more beneficial measure to encourage a plan that would prevent their lives from being lost. The cork jacket was much more simple and useful, and many naval men had testified their approbation of it. Captain Harris, in a letter dated Spithead, 1814, had declared, that it perfectly answered all purposes; and he instanced a case where the crew of a boat, going to the relief of a transport, had been saved, while a boat belonging to another ship, which attempted to follow, was upset, and the whole of the lives lost, in consequence of the men not being clad in the jacket.
 Lord Castlereagh  having moved that the
 [1022 l l l 1023] l
 Mr. Bennet  said, that some communication should have been made to Parliament on this subject, long before the Message had been brought down; since it was generally supposed, that an event of this kind had been in contemplation for a considerable period. He was surprised that this proposition should be brought forward now, within a fortnight of the termination of the session, when there were few members in town. But he had remarked, that, when a sum of money was to be moved for, which ought not to be granted, it was always called for at a season like the present, when the House was very thinly attended. He should consider the subject, first, with reference to the situation of the country, and next with relation to the person in whose favour the grant was proposed. In his mind, the present time was very unfit for making an application for an additional sum, although it was not of great magnitude. An hon. gentleman below him had most truly stated, that, if a single shilling could be spared, it ought to be given to those brave men who had so nobly and so successfully fought the battles of their country. This observation was more particularly entitled to attention, when the House recollected the immense sum which the Royal family at present received. The Crown, at this moment, enjoyed a revenue for its own purposes, little short of a million per annum. The expenditure of the year 1814 was upwards of 900,000 l 1027]
 Sir C. M. Burrell  wished to be informed, whether there was any truth in a statement he had heard, that, at the time of the evacuation of Hanover, the duke of Cumberland, without the authority of the Prince Regent, put himself at the head of the government, which situation he held, until measures were taken to displace him, another illustrious Duke having been sent out for that purpose? This business he wished to have explained. With respect to the time at which the marriage was celebrated, and of which the House were quite ignorant, he hoped the noble lord would give them the necessary information. He should now shortly notice the income of the duke of Cumberland. By the vote of 1806, he was placed in possession of 18,000 l [1028 l l l
 Lord Castlereagh  could not but regret, very deeply, the turn which the debate had taken. A discussion more painful to individuals, or more injurious to the best interests of the country, could not be conceived, than where a question of provision foe the use of the Royal family was examined through the medium of private feeling. He deprecated the system of calling on ministers to give answers on the subject of anecdotes which they had never heard. Nothing could be more unfair, or more injurious, in a country where political feelings were carried so far, than to perplex ministers by questions of such a nature. With respect to the first question of the hon. baronet he could only answer, that he never heard of the duke of Cumberland's having exercised any power, in. any part of the world, derogatory to the duty which he owed to his Sovereign, Whatever he did in Hanover, was the result of a just and virtuous feeling; and he could not help observing, that the introduction, on this occasion, of such a subject, was a pregnant proof that the way in which gentlemen thought fit to discuss this question was not a just one. With respect to the late period of the session at which this measure was brought forward, he could assure the hon. gentleman that it was not a matter of design, nor indeed, when he looked round upon the House, did he think there was any reason to regret the want of a fall attendance, many ques-
 1029] [1030 l
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that this question was extremely painful to every one, and that the blame of its being so rested not on those who opposed the motion, but on those who had proposed it. His objections to it were founded not only on the vote itself, but oh the mariner in which the subject had been brought forward. The noble lord asserted that the proceeding rested on the precedent of the marriage of the duke of York. He wished the noble lord had brought the subject before Parliament in the way in which the marriage of the duke of York had been brought before them. Were the cases in the slightest degree parallel? The duke of York certainly was married abroad, but the marriage was announced in the Gazette—it was not kept a secret—it was not a marriage of which the Royal family were ashamed—[Hear, hear!]. The marriage of the duke of York was mentioned in the speech from the throne on the opening of the session; his Majesty expressing his confidence that Parliament would make a provision suitable to the circumstances of the case. This was on the 1st of February 1792, and it was not until the 7th of March (six weeks afterwards) that a proposition was made by ministers in consequence. On the marriage of the duke of York Parliament had voted addresses of congratulation to his Majesty, to the Queen, and to their royal highnesses the Duke and Duchess. Would the noble lord now stand forward and move an Address of congratulation to the Queen on the marriage of the duke of Cumberland? [Hear,
 1031] [1032
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  contended, that it was the custom of Parliament, upon the marriage of any branch of the Royal family, to provide the means of supporting the establishment incident to such a condition, with proper dignity and splendour; and indeed the House could not but be aware, that the support of the monarchy itself was intimately connected with enabling the Royal family to maintain that kind of splendour which was naturally expected from it, and which it would be an unwise economy on the part of that House to limit. The question, therefore, was, what sum would be necessary, on the present occasion, to enable his royal highness the duke of Cumberland to support that requisite splendour; and he thought his noble friend had fixed it upon as small a scale as was possible. The hon. baronet who spoke last had laid great stress upon the intelligence he had received, that their royal highnesses intended to reside abroad; but was it for that House to say that they should from necessity reside out of this country—to compel, by its parsimony, a branch of the Royal family so near in the succession to the crown, though certainly not likely to fill it, to banish himself as it were, to a foreign kingdom? Another supposition had been adverted to in the course of the debate, namely, that the proposed grant would interfere with the other supplies for the public service, or acts of becoming liberality; and certainly if he thought that were likely to happen, he should be induced to weigh with the most scrupulous accuracy which of the various cases was most urgent and necessary: but feeling as he did, that that House would not stint any branch of the public service, nor withhold any becoming liberality, he could not but consider the present among those claims that ought to be complied with.
 Lord Castlereagh  adverting to the observations of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Mr. Wynn) on the supposed secrecy of the duke of Cumberland's marriage, said, that it was on the contrary a proceeding attended with all possible publicity. The duke and duchess were married in the presence of his Majesty's ministers at Berlin, in the presence of the King of Prussia, and in the presence of several members of the reigning house of Mecklenburg. Nor did he conceive that more publicity would have been given to the marriage in this country by noticing it in the Gazette, than by making the communication which had been made to Parliament upon the subject. With respect to the possible future situation of the Duchess, should the committee not accede to the motion before them, he would just state it. The Court of Berlin had, it was true, been in the habit of granting an appanage to such members of the royal family of Prussia as had been married. But as the King of Prussia made a liberal provision for the children of the marriage between the Duchess and Prince Louis, he had not thought it proper to extend the appanage beyond the prince's life. If, therefore, this grant were not acceded to, the duchess might perhaps at
 1033]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he did not anticipate any objection to the proposition which he was about to make to the committee. In the present state of public affairs, no one could deny that great exertions, and consequently great expense, were indispensably necessary. It was certainly peculiarly desirable, at the present critical moment, to arm the Crown with the power to make efforts commensurate to the occasions that might arise. There was only one observation to which he conceived that the
 [1034 l
 Mr. Wynn  declared, that he could not allow the present question to pass without expressing his entire approbation of the proposed grant. He trusted that his Majesty's ministers would not be misled by the recent success of out arms, glorious as it had been, to relax in their efforts to obtain that which should be their sole object—a secure and honourable peace. It was his strong conviction, that however desirable the establishment of a legitimate government in France might be, it was not so much to any particular form of government in that country that Great Britain ought to look, as to depriving France of the power of further disturbing the peace of Europe, by taking further securities than had hitherto been afforded.
 Mr. Bennet  hoped the noble lord would disavow, on the part of his Majesty's Government, the report, that money and arms had been furnished to the King of Spain, to enable him to carry on a war with the inhabitants of South America.
 Lord Castlereagh,  said he could assure the hon. gentleman that the conduct of Government had been strictly conformable to the principle which they had originally laid down for themselves of abstaining from any interference whatever. In the pursuit of that conduct, as they had incurred the reproaches of the Spanish government, so now it appeared that they were subjected to the jealousy of those against whom the operations of that government had been recently directed.
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that the marriage of the duke of York had taken place during the recess, which was the cause of its having been noticed to Parliament at the commencement of the next session. In other instances of the marriage of different branches of the Royal family, the information had been communicated to Parliament by a Message from the Crown, as in the present case. He contended, that Parliament ought not to hesitate to give to a prince of the blood, on his marriage, such an income as he must of necessity require, in order to provide for his new and more expensive establishment. He conceived the introduction of personal observations to be extremely improper in a case that ought to be decided on the general principle which he had already stated.
 Mr. Bathurst  bore testimony to the eagerness of Government to give every possible facility to captain Manby's plan.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that the committee had reported favourably of this invention; and as to the 100 l
 Mr. Whitbread  said, he should not oppose the motion, conceiving, that under the present circumstances it was material that the Crown should be provided with powers capable of meeting any exigency that might arise during the recess. He hoped that before the re-assembling of Parliament the blessings of peace would be restored to the country. Whatever difference of opinion might exist with respect to the original justice of the war (and no change whatever had taken place in his opinions on that subject), there could be but one sentiment on the splendour of our recent success; which, however, he trusted would not induce his Majesty's Government to go in pursuit of objects utterly foreign to our true policy. It was impossible to foresee what events might speedily occur. If the noble duke, who with his glorious army had achieved a triumph so memorable, should reach the' metropolis of France, he trusted that his protecting arm would avert the horrors
 1035]
 Mr. Whitshed Keene  explained. He was of opinion, that public services of impor-
 [1026
 Mr. Whitshed Keene  said, that no man was more attached to a limited monarchy than himself, or more sensible of all the advantages enjoyed by those who lived under one; and in consequence of that attachment be was always ready to contribute whatever was really necessary for supporting the dignity of all the branches of that family by which limited monarchy in this country was upheld. He must say, however, that this did not appear to him an application to which Parliament ought to accede. The duke of Cumberland already possessed 18,000 l l l [1024
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that without going into the comparative merits of the two inventions, he thought that Mr. Mallison had, at least, the merit of great perseverance; and he most sincerely hoped that some public notice would be taken of his plan, in order that it might be brought into general use. If encouragement were afforded by the public boards, a great number of lives might be saved. Mr. Mallison had written him a letter on this subject, wherein he stated, that three sloops were recently lost, and almost all their crews perished, whose lives might have been saved by the use of his jacket.
 Mr. Wilberforce  was happy to hear that rewards were given to those who risked their lives under captain Manby's plan, and hoped that Government would employ every exertion to carry it into complete effect.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  ridiculed the idea of those jackets affording any security for seamen belonging to a man of war. For unless every seaman were dressed in a cork jacket, how was one to be flung to Jack, if he fell overboard while the ship was going at the rate of five or six knots an hour? He believed the plan to be wholly destitute of that practical utility which could justify the House in acquiescing in the motion. The great and only merit of Mr. Mallison's invention appeared to be, to have proved that cork was of a light and floating nature.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he would not yield to the noble lord, or to any man in the country, in the esteem and respect which he bore for every branch of the Royal family, nor was any one less inclined than himself to take from them whatever was necessary for the due maintenance of their splendour and domestic comfort; but in speaking his sentiments in that House without reserve, he apprehended he proved himself as great a friend to monarchy, as he should by giving a tacit vote upon, the subject. In his opinion, nothing came near to this question as a precedent except the marriage of the duke of York, which only bore to it a very remote analogy. On making a provision for the duke of York, a view was bad to the probability of the succession of his marriage, as the Prince of Wales entertained at that time no idea of marrying. But a material change had since occurred; and God forbid that the hopes and expectations of the loyal people of this country should not be realised in the princess Charlotte. With respect, however, to the marriage of the duke of Cumberland, it was not one which ought to be looked at in a national point of view, or which rendered it necessary on this ground for Parliament to step in to vote a grant for increasing the income of the parties. If their royal highnesses were to live in a foreign country, he could see no reason for any new grant to increase their allowance; but if they intended to reside, in this country, the matter would certainly be materially changed. As long as this illustrious person might choose to live abroad, there would be no ground for taking 6000 l 1025]
 Mr. Douglas  presented a Petition from several prisoners in the King's-bench, adverting to the Report of the Committee upon the alleged abuses of that prison, and praying for an opportunity of testifying to the humane conduct of the Marshal, upon whose character the said Report appeared to the petitioners to cast some reflections. Upon the motion for laying the Petition upon the table,
 Mr. Bennet  said, that the Report of the
 [1040 l.
 Lord Nugent  said, that before the House divided he could not but remind gentlemen of the circumstances under which they were coming to the vote. A question had been put to ministers by his hon. friend (Mr. W. Smith), and repeated by his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney), to which ministers had not dared to give a reply. No one of His Majesty's ministers had been found to venture to give the House even a hope that one of the illustrious persons, immediately the object of this grant, would, in the case of her coming to reside in England, be admitted to the Court of this country. [Hear!] For his own part, he disapproved of the grant proposed, with reference to the time in which, to the manner in which, and to the person for whom, the grant was proposed. He differed with his hon. friend who stated that he did not admit public rumour to influence his vote. For his own part he voted mainly on evidence which could come before the House only by public rumour—public rumour uncontradicted and unencountered. [Hear, hear!] His right hon. friend had pledged himself to take the sense of the House in every stage of this grant. In the conscientious discharge of his duty, he could not but say, that in every stage of the grant his vote should second that of his right hon. friend.
 Mr. Bennet  rose to inquire of the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Forbes), whether he meant to apply personally to him the remark, that he (Mr. Bennet) had brought disgrace upon himself by those comments
 [1048
 Mr. Forbes  said, he was not aware he had said any thing personally disrespectful to the hon. member; but if he had, he certainly did not intend to do so. At the same time he would leave it to the judgment of the House, whether the expressions which the hon. gentleman had used were either proper or parliamentary.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that be had, on a former occasion, given notice that be should on this day submit a resolution to the House for the purpose of bestowing those marks of national gratitude on the heroes who fell in the late battle, to which their pre-eminent services so justly entitled them; and he did hope, that by delaying to bring forward the motion till now, he should have been able to receive from the distinguished officer who commanded on that memorable day the names of all those who had most signalized themselves. Such, however, had been the course of active operations carried on by the duke of Wellington since that period, that no return, down to the 25th of this month, which was the latest intelligence Government had received from him, had been made out: but they knew enough of all the circumstances of that great contest to enable them to proceed; and he thought no time should be lost in paying that respect and gratitude which they owed to the memory of those who had
 [1050 1051] [1052
 Mr. Wynn  expressed his entire and most cordial concurrence in the motion before the House, and was proceeding to observe, that he hoped the intended monument would not be erected in any particular church, when
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that the intention was to erect a pillar, or triumphal arch, some architectural monument, in fact, suitable to the magnificence of the nation, and which, of course, would not be confined within the walls of a church.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he was glad to hear the explanation of the noble lord. He also wished that the name of every man who fell in that battle should be commemorated. He was aware, that from the great number of names there might be some difficulty in doing that, but still he thought it was practicable, and it would thus become a proud record for any one to refer to who should inherit the name of those gallant warriors; a record which he hoped would never perish. He was anxious, likewise, that distinct monuments should be erected to those two general officers who were mentioned in the motion, especially when it was recollected what their services were, and in how many hard-fought battles they had participated. He had heard that nearly the last words which the gallant Picton uttered before he left this country, was to express a hope, in the presence of two members of that House, that if he should fall, which he seemed to anticipate, he might not be forgotten, but receive the same distinction as had been conferred upon other officers—[Hear, hear!] And perhaps it would be impossible to produce a stronger proof of the wisdom and utility of those honours conferred by that House, and the great effect which the contemplation of them produced on the minds of British officers. There was another thing which he wished to suggest, namely, that medals should be struck in commemoration of the battle, and distributed to the survivors. After
 1053]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the suggestion of the hon. member, as to the erection of distinct monuments to the memory of sir Thomas Picton and sir W. Ponsonby, was one that the House might readily accede to, as they had only one object in view, that of distinguishing the eminent services of those lamented officers. He would therefore subjoin, as an amendment to the motion, "and that funeral monuments be also erected in memory of each of those two officers in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, London."
 Mr. Wynn , And that the names of those who fell be inscribed on the National Monument.
 Lord Castlereagh.  That had better be left for arrangement in the execution of the plan.
 Mr. Forbes  expressed his readiness to support the views of the last speaker, if he thought proper to propose (and he hoped the hon. member would) some reward for the meritorious services of the Commander-in-chief. [Hear, hear! on the Ministerial side.] But such a proposition could not disincline him to vote for the present motion. As to the merits of
 1045]
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he should abstain from answering any questions calculated to vilify the Royal family, and that he did not think the right hon. gentleman had any right to put such questions.
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald , although perfectly disposed to afford every honour to the memory of our brave heroes, differed completely from the hon. gentleman who had just sat down as to the mode of accomplishing that object. He could not agree that a national monument to our own army should be ornamented by pillage from the capital of another country. If that pillage were to be surrendered, let it be given to those countries to which it originally belonged. Our intrinsic glory ought not to be diminished by following the example of France; but if that example were followed, let the monument be ornamented with the cannon which were captured in the battle. If he wanted any authority to condemn such a proposition as that, made by the hon. gentleman, he thought he could derive it from the illustrious individual at the head of our troops. On the duke of Wellington's having been very recently reminded, that on the last occasion on which the English army entered France, they behaved with extreme delicacy towards that country; his answer was, "I promise you that if it is in my power they shall behave with equal delicacy now;" a magnanimous declaration, which did as much honour to the man as to the soldier. He strongly recommended, that as the merits of the three countries had been equal in the late battle, a national monument should be erected in Edinburgh, and another in Dublin, as well as that proposed to be erected in London.
 Mr. C. Grant  although, so many hon.
 [1056
 Sir C. Burrell  observed, that if, instead of purchasing a mansion, a palace worthy of the illustrious individual who was to inhabit it were to be erected, he would be kept 12, 15, or 2O years without any residence while it was building.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proceeded to state his intentions with respect to the various objects comprehended in the measure. In the clause which related to the composition to be paid by the Bank of England for the exemption of their paper from the Stamp-duty, he meant to propose no alteration. The next subject was the duty on Probates; and as it had been considered a hardship that it should operate on the whole of the effects of the deceased, instead of on the balance after the debts were paid, he intended to propose a drawback to remedy this grievance for the present, although he felt that the whole of this subject was one which must soon undergo parliamentary investigation, with a view to a general, arrangement of it. There were two subjects remaining—one, the licences for the issuing of promissory-notes, which be was content to abandon in this instance, meaning to bring the consideration of them before the House in the next session; the other, the stamps on law proceedings in Scotland, which he proposed to remain as they now stood in the Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not consider that Mr. Pitt's principle of arrangement had been materially departed from either by lord Sidmouth or Mr. Perceval. When the Bank stopped payments in cash, it was thought by writers that the outstanding notes amounted to 20,000,000, whereas they were only 12,000,000. The difference between the arrangements was, that the former one was permanent, and the present fluctuating, according to the notes in circulation. He considered himself wholly responsible for this arrangement, such as it stood. He had offered terms consistent with the public advantage, and with the faith of Parliament. The right hon. gentleman contended, that it was vain to enter into an examination as to the equality of charge upon the Bank as compared with what might be paid by private bankers. It was impossible to institute such a com-
 1059]
 Mr. Forbes  said, that on the principle laid down by the preceding speaker, all discussion of the present Bill was unnecessary. With regard to the three millions lent to Government without interest, those three millions made only part of eleven millions of public balances in the bands of the Bank.
 Mr. Thornton  thought, that enough had been said in defence of the agreement made between the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Bank, to render it unnecessary for him to trouble the committee with any observations. Indeed, he despaired of making any impression on the honourable members opposite to him, as they received every thing that came from any gentleman connected with the Bank with great prejudice, though he could assure them he endeavoured to discharge his duty with uprightness and impartiality between the public and the great corporation for which he was a trustee. Supposing him, however, to err by leaning to the side of the Bank, he was certainly met by a more than equal zeal, and he might say prejudice, by the gentlemen on the other side. He then defended the agreement made at different times for a compensation in the stead of stamp-duties, and gave some explanations respecting the renewal of the charter, and the privileges it gave. On the present occasion a new principle had been agreed upon between the Government and the Bank, which raised the compensation to 87,500 l l
 General Thornton  expressed his regret at the frequent attacks made upon the Bank in that House, as being injurious to that establishment, and consequently to the public. He also thought that the gentlemen on the ministerial side were too much in the habit of giving way to such attacks. The honourable general supported the motion.
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, if it had not been for his hon. friend (Mr. Grenfell), this subject would never have come before them; and he had thereby been the means of rendering a most signal service to the country.
 Mr. Alderman Smith  observed, that there were several large buildings in the country in which national monuments might be erected, and among them was the church of St. Alban's.
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  said, that hail he been present last night, he would have voted for the proposed grant. It was indisputable, in his opinion, that a private individual could not subsist upon less than 300 l l
 Mr. A. Browne , seeing an hon. member in his place who had obtained leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the smuggling of Slaves into our West-India colonies, wished to inquire when that Bill would be laid before the House. If it were only to be read a first time this session, it ought to be brought in without delay, that having been printed, it might during the recess be sent to the colonies.
 Mr. A. Browne  expressed himself content with the statement of the hon. gentleman. Tie was only anxious that the Bill should be brought in, in due time to have it printed before the close of the session.
 Mr. B. Shaw  contended, that the Bank had acted, not only fairly and honourably, but liberally towards the public. He insisted on the danger of opening transactions entered into by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In stating the amount of Bank paper in circulation, and the duty
 [1060
 Mr. Protheroe  said, that he could not consistently give a silent vote upon this proposition. He was fully aware of the extreme delicacy of the subject. No one was, he believed, more anxious than himself to observe that delicacy, or more ready to accede to any measure necessary to maintain the dignity, honour, and interest of the Crown; but as he did not think
 [1044
 Mr. Tierney  repeated the question put by his hon. friend (Mr. W. Smith), and to which no answer had been returned, namely, whether Her Majesty was not decidedly hostile to the marriage which gave rise to this discussion, and whether, if the duchess of Cumberland should come to this country, she would not be received at Court—whether this fact did not come within the noble lord's own knowledge?
 Mr. Tierney  felt himself perfectly justified in putting the questions, to which the noble lord objected—it was his right to put such questions, and the duty of the noble lord to answer them for the satisfac-
 [1046 1047]
 Mr. Bankes  had every wish to do justice to the memory of those brave men to whom the country was so deeply indebted for their glorious services in the late victory. From whence, he asked, could the ornamental part of the National Monument which was about to be erected, be better derived than from that centre of the enemy's country to which the inarch of their brave comrades was directed? To that capital which he trusted was, ere now, in the possession of the illustrious Wellington. Paris, twice in the possession of conquerors, ought not to be allowed to retain the plunder which the French had, for so many years, been gathering from the whole of civilized Europe. She ought to be compelled to refund a portion; and no occasion could be so fitting for the employment of it, as the commemoration of the fall of a tyranny oppressive to France itself, and the achievement of a victory glorious to Great Britain.
 Mr. Bankes  thought it a strange fancy to represent the loans at low interest advanced by the Bank as a sort of payment for the licence of trading. The public, in his opinion, paid sufficiently, and even extravagantly for the accommodation, and for the general transaction of its business. All that could be urged in favour of the existing system, was the excellence of the security. But he must object to the use of the word 'composition,' as not expressive of the true idea that ought to prevail. In the Act of Parliament which recognized the present settlement, the word was 'compensation,' and the ordinary convertible term of that word was 'equivalent.' He could see no reason why the Chancellor of the Exchequer should adhere to an erroneous system. When the compensation was first fixed, it was not in the contemplation of Mr. Pitt, or of Parliament, to give any advantage to the Bank; they ought, indeed, rather to pay more than less than other bankers, for the advantage of not being put to the trouble of stamping every note. The Bank ought not to shelter themselves under an unfair construction of former Acts of Parliament. He considered the taking the average as advantageous for the Bank. That opulent body would, he thought, be acting more fairly and honourably by the public, if they did not attempt to claim any exemption from the common burthens of the country.
 General Gascoyne  suggested the propriety of interring the body of sir Thomas Picton, which had been brought over to this country, in the Cathedral where a monument was to be raised to his memory. On the day previous to the great victory of the 18th, he had been dangerously wounded. From the moment he had left this country, till he joined the army, he had never entered any bed; he had scarcely given himself time to take any refreshment, so eager was he in the performance of his duty. After the severe wound which he had received, he would have been justified in not engaging in the action of the 18th. His body, he understood, was not only blackened by it, but swelled to a considerable degree; and those who had seen him, wondered that
 [1054
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he had heard that Mr. Jones was not pleased with the Report of the Committee; but he must say, that it appeared from the evidence of Mr. Jones himself, that he was not sufficiently acquainted with what was passing within the prison. The sole direction and management of the prisoners was entrusted to Mr. Brooschooft, the private clerk, of Mr. Jones; and the committee had thought it their duty to mark their sense of the impropriety of his conduct.
 Mr. Finlay  thought the Bank ought to contribute in the proportion of all other classes of subjects.
 Mr. Grenfell , in explanation, said, that 99,572 l
 Mr. Grenfell  observed, that he agreed with his right hon. friend on the principle of the proposed composition, and differed from him only as to its extent. He repeated his former statement, that by the neglect of his right hon. friend's two predecessors on this subject, the public had sustained a loss, and the Bank had gained an undue profit, which, correctly calculated from the documents on the table, amounted to no less a sum than 534,183 l [1058 l l
 Mr. R. Gordon  rose, and declared that he could not reconcile it to his sense of duty to allow this motion to pass with a silent vote against it. He was astonished at the observation of the noble lord (Castleregh) who brought forward this motion last night, that he did not apprehend any opposition, while he agreed with the noble lord that it most be painful to hear any reflections upon the character of the individual referred to, or any comments whatever at all likely to depreciate the consequence of the illustrious family to whom that individual belonged. But ministers alone were to blame in dragging the duke of Camberland before that House. If any reflections were thrown out against that individual, it was the fault of ministers in forcing him upon the consideration of that House. After what had notoriously passed with respect to this individual, and his connexion—after the rumours that were afloat upon the subject—he could not by any means concur with the noble lord, that this was not to be regarded as a personal question, and that that House, when called upon to accede to a vote of this nature, had not a right to consider the merits of the individual. On the contrary, he thought it the duty of the House to enter into that consideration, and to inquire whether the duke of Cumberland had, either in his military or senatorial capacity, rendered any services to the country that could entitle him to this additional grant. For it did not follow that
 [1042
 Mr. Mellish  made some observations upon the calculations of Mr. Grenfell,
 [1061 l l
 Mr. W. Smith  expressed his concurrence in the motion, and hoped the suggestion of his hon. friend (Mr. Wynn) would be adopted, for recording the names of all who had fallen. It would have the best possible effect, and might be done with little difficulty. They knew that some of the most famous actions of antiquity were so recorded, and the record had even come down to the present age; He must again repeat what he had pressed upon, the House on a former night, that he hoped a palace would be erected for the duke of Wellington, and that Parliament would not be contented with merely purchasing for him a house which had been built for some other individual.
 Mr. W. Smith  expressed a disinclination to trespass upon the time of the House, but observed that he could not refrain from decidedly discountenancing this extraordinary proposition. He apprehended that the marriage of the duke of Cumberland was disagreeable to the Royal family and he understood that it was the intention of this prince not to reside in this country; and if such were his intention, that circumstance certainly furnished an additional argument against the propriety of the proposed grant; nay, he understood, that if that person should bring his new connexion to this country, she would not be received at Court; that such was the I resolution of an illustrious personage; and he wished to ask, whether such was not the fact? If this report were unfounded, he should be glad to have it contradicted; for if it were true, he could see no reason for the proposed additional grant. He was therefore anxious to get at the fact upon this point. A great deal had been said upon this occasion as to the propriety of supporting the splendour of the Royal family; but upon this subject he would repeal what he had before often uttered, namely, that the character and consequence of that family in this country de-
 1043] l l
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, he agreed with the sentiments expressed by his hon. friend, and that if a ready-made mansion was provided for the duke of Wellington it would not, in his opinion, mark that full tide of national gratitude which would be conveyed by the erection of a palace, specifically in honour of his great and meritorious services. They would act much more wisely in erecting a palace, even though it should cost somewhat more; they and their posterity, in fact, would be the gainers: for it should be recollected, that in building such a palace, it would be done, not to gratify the duke of Wellington merely, not to acquit themselves of the debt of gratitude they owed him, or to gratify their own feelings, but to show to all the world, that when a great man, selected by Providence, became the instrument and means of conferring signal blessings on mankind, such, a man was to be honoured from first to last. With respect to the motion before the House, it had his entire support.
 Mr. Wilberforce  was a sufficiently old member of that House to know that the Bill ought to be brought in before the end of the present session, in order that copies of it might be sent abroad before Parliament assembled again. Since, however, it had only been proposed that it should be read a first time and printed in the present session, as it was a bill of great? detail, he had kept it back to read it carefully over, that it might be as correct as
 1041]
 Mr. Wilberforce , in allusion for what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who spoke last, begged to be allowed to say, that he was sure the duke of Wellington would derive the greatest pleasure from observing the gradual growth of the building
 1057]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  presented a Bill "to enable his Majesty to make provision for the Establishment of their royal highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cumberland; and also to settle an annuity on her Royal Highness during the time of her natural life, to commence from the decease of his said Royal Highness, in case her said Royal Highness shall survive him." On the motion, that the Bill be now read a first time,
 Mr. Burrell  said, he had not heard a single argument in favour of the grant, but many good reasons against it. Most unfavourable rumours existed respecting the conduct of both parties, and no attempt had been made to remove them. For these reasons, therefore, he should move an amendment, "That the Bill be read a first time on that day three months."
 Mr. Douglas  spoke in favour of the measure. The consent of the Crown had, it appeared, been regularly obtained for this marriage, and it would, he thought, be doing a great wrong to the duke of Cumberland to exclude his Royal Highness from that consideration which had been usually granted, which indeed could not' be consistently refused, to the other branches of the Royal family. As to the rumours which had gone abroad upon this subject, they were said to be uncontradicted, but that was perhaps because they were not thought worthy of contradiction; and if they were not encountered, it was-only because they did not appear in a tangible shape. Upon the whole he could not see why the duke of Cumberland should not, as well as the other branches of the Royal family, be enabled to maintain the splendour of his rank, or that any attention should be paid to rumours, upon the merits of which it was impossible for that House to form a judgment.
 Lord Castlereagh  could not help complaining of the conduct of his hon. friend, in stating to the House, that the marriage of the duke of Cumberland had been conducted with privacy. The fact was, and the Prince Regent had expressly declared in his Message to the House, that the marriage took place under the previous sanction of the Crown; it was a marriage solemnised at Berlin, in presence of several members of the family of the duke of Mecklenburgh Strelitz, and the representative of the British Court; and as to the non-appearance of the marriage in the Gazette, that was owing merely to a casual omission. In regard to what the hon. member had mentioned respecting the merits of his royal highness the duke of York, no man could be more deeply impressed than himself with a due sense of his Royal Highness's most important services; and he was sure that the country would acknowledge, that much of the glory we had lately attained, was to be ascribed to his Royal Highness; but he lamented exceedingly, when a question respecting one branch of the Royal family was before the House, that the hon. member should have digressed into a consideration of the merits of another branch. As to the marriage of the duke of Cumberland, he repeated, that it was not solemnised in privacy, and that the addition now proposed to be made to his income was necessary for the support of his rank and dignity. Thus much he thought it necessary to say, in reply to his hon. friend who spoke last, because he wished to satisfy his mind, being fully convinced of the purity of his motives.
 Mr. Rose  said, his mind was made up on this subject; and if any assistance of his was necessary td carry the Bill through, he would most readily give it. It appeared to him, from every view of this question, that the assize of bread ought not to be continued in London; and this opinion he adopted; because he was satisfied that the returns of the price of flour, upon which the assize was fixed, were invariably false. He thought differently with respect to the country; however, in the country, the real price of flour could be obtained. If the power of setting the assize was not had recourse to, he thought it would be a great advantage that the power should be vested in the country magistrates.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , under all the views which he had taken of this question, recommended to the hon. gentleman not to push the Bill beyond a stage in which it could be properly considered during the present session. He had no doubt, when the Bill was passed, that it would be productive of the most beneficial effects to the public; yet, as all sudden alterations were impolitic, he thought the postponement of the measure to a future period would tend; to remove those objections which; upon a first view of it, were, likely to arise.
 Mr. Western  said, fee should feel extreme regret if the progress of this Bill was delayed, from a conviction that the public had been considerable sufferers, and still continued to be sufferers, under the Assize laws. He thought the evidence which had been submitted to the committee, from whence this Bill had emanated, afforded the strongest grounds for trying the experiment of abandoning the assize altogether.
 Mr. Culcraft  wished to know, whether it was the intention of the hon. gentleman to press this Bill during the present session?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the hon alderman would not press his amendment in the present state of the House, there being but very few members present.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose. In delivering his sentiments to the House on the very extraordinary grant which was now proposed to them, he desired first to repel the charge that had been made on the other side, that the opposition which hon. members on his side bad expressed to this measure was merely of a personal nature. That opposition, he was convinced, arose not only from the subject of the grant itself, but from the manner in which it had been brought before them; for what, he would ask, were the circumstances, under which the House were now called upon to vote an additional income to the duke of Cumberland? There had been no previous congratulation on his Royal Highnesses marriage; and he felt persuaded, that no part of the country regarded it as an auspicious or desirable occurrence—[Hear, hear!]. A question had been put last night to the noble lord opposite, whether the parties would be received at Court: but the noble lord had not only refused to answer that question, but had even reprobated the conduct of his right hon. friend, who had so properly put it. What opposition, therefore, could be of a more public nature, when it remained uncontradicted that Her Majesty had intimated a determination not to receive the wife of the duke of Cumberland at Court? If there existed any blame in the agitation of this question; if there was any appearance of slander on the royal persons who were interested in it, the whole of that blame and that slander came from the other side of the House—[Hear, hear!]. His Majesty's ministers seemed to conceive, that the House were bound immediately to increase the allowance of those persons, without any previous consideration of their conduct: but he trusted that honourable members would not forget
 [1066
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  thought the passing of the Bill would be a relief to the bakers, and that there never could be a more favourable time than the present, when corn was so low, for making the experiment.
 Mr. Wilbraham Bootle  said, that he was anxious to explain the grounds upon which he had voted, and meant still to vote against the measure before the House, because he should be sorry if such
 1067] [1068 l
 Mr. Tierney  wished to say one word in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. member. The question which he had taken the liberty of asking, he then thought, and still considered, a proper one. The House of Commons was called upon to grant a certain sum of money to support the dignity and character of a branch of the Royal family, and the only object of such a grant must have had a reference to this country; but he happened to hear, that a certain illustrious personage had declared she never would suffer the lady to appear at Court, and he questioned the noble lord as to the accuracy of that fact. It was a question which, under all the circumstances of the case, he was justified in asking; and as the noble lord thought proper to refuse any answer, he was warranted in drawing the conclusion, that, for some reasons which he should not presume to guess at, the duke of Cumberland had married a lady whom the Queen would, not receive. The more he thought of this matter, the more he was convinced that the House ought not to agree to this grant, and therefore he was the more determined to oppose it in every stage.
 Mr. Hammersley  said, he should support the vote, because he thought it rested on the strictest parliamentary grounds, and that no parliamentary ground had been alleged against it. He apprehended the Crown had made a bargain with that House to have its own dignity and splendour properly supported; and the question was, whether they ought not to grant some provision upon the marriage of one of the branches of the Royal family? if so, it could not be denied that the present was a moderate demand. With respect to the personal allusions which had been made, he should be ashamed to repeat such scandalous and calumnious accusations, upon such slight grounds as those
 [1070
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  did not object to trying an experiment, but could not agree to parting wholly with the assize. He wished to see a fair principle of average fixed upon. He was aware that, respecting the assize, there was much prejudice against his opinions, which, though he firmly believed in them, he was not so presumptuous as to expect every one to
 1073]
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  suggested that the magistrate should retain his power, to exercise it in such cases as he should think fit.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  then proposed as an amendment, that the Act should only continue for one year from the passing of the Act.
 Mr. Methuen  contended, that the House ought to show, by its vote that night, that it was not inattentive to the morals of the country, and therefore he should oppose the grant; not from the slightest personal motives, but merely in the conscientious discharge of what he conceived to be his duty.
 General Thornton and Mr. Preston  were in favour of the Bill. The Bill was committed, and read a first and second time.
 Mr. Whitbread  began by observing, that the latter part of the speech of the hon. member on the other side of the House was totally irrelevant to the motion under consideration. No one, however, he admitted, could review the late events without giving due praise to the Commander-in-chief, who had placed the army in such a state of efficiency as to achieve the most
 1069]
 Mr. Lewis  moved the order of the day for the House going into a committee on the Bread Assize Repeal Bill.
 Mr. F. Lewis  objected to this, as being contrary to the object of the measure.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  said, he would be guided by the wishes of the House. His own conviction of the importance of the measure, however, induced him to think it was highly expedient it should be carried without delay. If it was postponed, he hoped gentlemen, would really pay
 [1072 pro form
 Mr. Ellison  said, that nothing should induce him to go out of the House without giving publicly a decided opposition to this measure, because he honoured the people, and he honoured also that House; and the surest way to make the people also honour that House would be to reject this
 [1078
 Mr. Forbes  reprobated the argument against the Bill, derived from the rumours in circulation, and expressed his astonishment that the hon. baronet should maintain that those rumours ought to be believed until they were disproved. For himself, he had made it a rule through life, never to give credit to any report that he heard. There was only one person in the universe against whom he was ready to join in the general hue and cry. On the present occasion he should most conscientiously stand up in defence of the illustrious person who had been so grossly attacked, and vote for the Bill.
 Sir Gerard Noel  was very sorry that such a line of proceeding as had been adopted on this occasion had been pursued. He had no motive whatsoever other than what he conceived his duty in giving his vote for the measure. Instead of 6000 l l l [1080 l
 Sir J. Majority banks  said, that on giving notice upon Friday last, of a motion of Thanks to the Duke of York, he was influenced by no other consideration than that he did not think the vote proposed last year was sufficiently extensive a return for the services of that illustrious personage: and that it was not so, had been a Subject of regret to himself and every man with whom he had conversed on the subject. He declared that he acted with perfect impartiality in the motion be intended to bring forward, as he was not personally acquainted with the duke of York. At present he only wished to postpone his motion from this day till to-morrow.
 Lord Cochrane  appeared at the bar, and on the Speaker's asking if there were any members to be sworn, his lordship advanced towards the table. The Speaker said, the hon. member must be introduced by two members, on which sir Henry Montgomery and Mr. Teed placed themselves on each side of him, and walked up to the table, when his lordship took the oaths, and afterwards his seat.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the second reading of the duke of Cumberland's Establishment Bill.
 Mr. Western  said, it was not his intention to detain the House by adverting to those topics which had been brought forward in the previous stages of this Bill, and still less did he intend to advert to those considerations which were of a more personal nature; nor did he mean to avail himself of that opportunity to draw, what he must regard as invidious, a comparison between the Royal Duke who was immediately under the consideration of the House, and another illustrious Personage; but he rose principally to express his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should persist in pressing the measure to a conclusion—[Hear, hear!] The majority on the first night even was extremely small; but when he saw that since that time it had decreased from 17 to 12, and then from 12 to 8, he could not comprehend upon what principle the right hon. gentleman was determined to persevere. He hoped, however, the division of that night would convince him, that the House was composed of better tempered metal, than to permit him to carry forward any further a measure which had been so severely criticised, and so very generally disapproved, in the strongest terms that could well be expressed, seeing that it was a subject which every one considered as of a most delicate nature. No communication had been made to the
 1075]
 Sir H. Montgomery  said, that when the present Bill was first brought into the House, he voted for it because he thought the proposed sum was no more than what was necessary; but from what he had heard since, he almost fancied he had done something very wrong. In all the inquiries, however, which he had made upon the subject, he found nothing but loose assertions; no person knew or could state any crime of which his Royal Highness had been guilty. In the present case he really saw nothing which would warrant the House in putting such a stigma upon his Royal Highness as would be conveyed by refusing the grant. As to the assent of Her Majesty, with respect to the marriage, he thought it was of very little consequence to that House. As one of the King's sons, he thought the duke of of Cumberland ought to have a provision made for him, on his marriage; and he was of opinion that those in particular who had so lately voted one million and upwards for paying the debts of the Empress Catharine, would with an ill grace refuse to sanction the grant of so small a sum to support the rank and dignity of one of the sons of the Sovereign. He should therefore vote in favour of the motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that as no account had been made out of the amount of Bank-of-England notes in circulation in 1799, he was at a loss to understand how his hon. friend had formed his calculation. With respect to the composition which the Bank were to pay by the Bill now in progress, it amounted very nearly to the sum which they would otherwise have had to pay for stamps.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the transaction with the Bank.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the observations of the hon. gentleman respecting annuities were deserving of consideration.
 Mr. Forbes  made some obversations on the licences paid by the Scotch Banking Companies.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested the expediency of deferring any further debate for the present. As the resolutions on both sides would be printed, and no new enactment was intended during the present session, it appeared more
 1085]
 Mr. Thornton  defended the conduct of the Bank.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, that the further consideration be deferred till Monday next.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought there would be no use in fixing the discussion for Thursday, as there was no probability of any considerable attendance of members.
 Mr. Baring  thought that the great responsibility to which the Bank subjected itself, entitled it to the profits that it received.
 —Sir Gerard Noel , in presenting the Petition of Mrs. Elizabeth Pearson, of Alfred-place, Bedford-square, respecting her discovery for the cure of Scrofula or King's-evil; said, that he took much blame to himself for not having earlier introduced to the attention of the House, a subject so interesting to humanity, as an effectual remedy for a complaint so general, so afflicting, and hitherto deemed so hopeless. He held in his hand documents which most folly confirmed the allegations of the Petition. He had by him testimonials of eminent individuals of the faculty, respecting the efficacy of Mrs. Pearson's discovery; and he had himself seen a number of such astonishing cures effected by that lady, as he would not have believed, hail he not had ocular evidence of them. He should, at an early period next session, bring the subject more fully under the considera-
 1087]
 Mr. A. Baring  said, that if the matter were rightly inquired into, it would be found that compensation was rather due to the Bank.
 Mr. W. Bathurst  said, if the question about the approbation of a certain individual of the Royal family with respect to the marriage had been answered, be did
 1077] l
 Mr. Bathurst  replied, from which it appeared that the observations of the preceding speaker had some reference to the children of the duchess of Cumberland by her former husband, and the provision for them by the king of Prussia.
 Mr. Protheroe  feared that an hon. gentleman, who had deprecated all invidious comparisons between the branches of the Royal family, alluded to some observations which had, on a former discussion, been uttered by him. If so, he begged leave to state, that he had not indulged in any invidious comparisons. He had praised a Royal Duke, but with no intention of drawing a contrast. All he said was, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer found an overflow in the Exchequer, there were debts of gratitude which ought to be satisfied. With respect to the present question, he did not think it necessary that those who opposed the Bill should bring proofs against the character of the Royal Duke. It was competent for the House to exercise their discretion without such a formality. To consent to the Bill would be to sacrifice the moral character of the House, which was of such high estimation that no price could bean equivalent for its loss.
 Mr. Holme Sumner  said, he had come up from the country on purpose to give his public disapprobation of this measure. He thought with the hon. gentleman who was lately the member for Yorkshire (Mr. Wilberforce), that the House had been placed in a very disagreeable predicament. It had been said by one hon. member, that the marriage had received the approbation of the Prince Regent; but no notification of that fact had been, given to the House; and in his opinion, ministers had much to answer for, in consequence of placing the House in such a situation. He thought the question which had been put by a right hon. gentleman respecting the Queen's disapprobation, and her having declared that she would not receive the lady at Court, was a very proper one, though it had been found fault with by a noble lord and others. Ministers ought to have come to that House for a vote of approbation; and in asking for this grant, when they thought they could not obtain the other, they had done wrong. He was convinced, with an hon. member opposite, that if the lady should happen to be left a widow, there could be no doubt of the House exercising its wonted generosity; but in its present form, he could by no means give his assent to the Bill, and should, therefore, support the Amendment.
 Mr. Tierney  was glad to find something at last extracted from the Bank directors. He lamented, however, that they should have taken so long a time to consider what they had to say. Ample time and various opportunities had occurred for entering into a general explanation, and the Resolutions themselves presented the means of conveying the sentiments of the Bank to the public, and in an authentic shape. Now, however, at the close of the session, the directors were full of anxiety for statement and discussion. He had heard of people whom it was difficult to get to sing, but once prevailed on, it was difficult to make them desist. He must for his own part protest against the doctrine, that because a settlement as to the composition between the public and the Bank was made eight years ago, Parliament ought not to interfere with, or to revive that settlement. There had been a greatly increased expenditure since that period, and a large accumulation of public balances in the hands of the Bank; and these
 [1086
 Mr. Tierney  said, all that his hon. friend wished was, that the Bank of England should pay at the same rate with private bankers. It was of the utmost importance to fix the principle, that in all future bargains with the Bank, they should ascertain the amount of their circulation.
 Mr. Hammersley  was afraid that these perpetual discussions with respect to the affairs of the Bank would disincline gentlemen of the respectability of those who were now Bank directors from accepting the office.
 Mr. Brogden  brought up the Report of the Stamp Duties Bill. On the motion that it be agreed to,
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that he had recently, obtained the knowledge of a fact with respect to that part of the Bill which related to the Bank composition. When he stated on a former evening, that in consequence of the oversight in 1804, and 1808, the public had lost 534,000 l l 1083]
 Mr. Grenfell  had no desire to shrink from immediate discussion. None of the delay that had taken place was attributable to him; and he was satisfied that the only result of discussion, come when it would, would be to secure a great saving of public money.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that up to 1800 the Bank did pay a full and fair composition, and he could see no reason why this system should have been deviated from.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would declare it to be his intention to make the composition with the Bank depend in some degree on the basis of their circulation, he should not wish to press his proposition: but when the Bank already made about 300,000 l l
 Mr. Grenfell , in reply, stated, that his calculation of the composition which the Bank of England would pay, if the average of the three last years were taken, was 90,000 l l d l l l l l l l l l l l [1084 l l
 Mr. Grenfell  readily acquiesced in the right hon. gentleman's suggestion. He had only wished to lay a foundation during the present session for some future legislative proceeding, and he was happy to reflect that so much valuable information had already been laid before the House.
 Mr. Preston  complained of the severity of the Stamp-duty  ad valorem l l
 Mr. Preston  said a few words, which we could not understand, from the loud cries of "Question," which continued during the whole time that the hon. member was speaking.
 Mr. Whitshed Keene  repeated his arguments against the grant, as being an unnecessary incumbrance on the public.
 Mr. W. Dundas  observed, in reply to what had fallen from an hon. gentleman, that if the proposition were to be withdrawn because of the small majorities which had been obtained, it would be declaring that the minority was to dictate in that House, and that the majority did not speak the sense of Parliament. It should be remembered, however, that very important questions had been determined by very slender majorities. As to the point, whether the alliance was one that would be advantageous to this country, he apprehended that was not a necessary con-
 [1076
 Mr. Manning  protested against leaving an impression on the public mind unfavourable to the Bank, arising out of so grave a charge as that preferred by the hon. member. Any gentleman by an easy calculation might see that the allowance to the Bank for the management of public business did not exceed 8 d l
 Mr. Manning  thought that upon the present occasion the Chancellor of the Exchequer had done his duty; he had made an advantageous bargain for the public.
 Mr. Mellish  was adverse to the postponement of the discussion.
 Mr. Wilberforce  confessed that the view in which he considered the present question, had a reference to the public morals of the country. The question which had been put by a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney) remained unanswered, and they must therefore believe, that the connexion was one which a certain great Personage had refused to sanction with her approbation. He could not think that a slight or an unimportant circumstance—[Hear, hear!] He must say, also, that the various rumours which were afloat, respecting the person with whom that connexion was formed, constituted a strong corroboration of the report that that person would not be received by the Queen. He conceived that Parliament was called upon to exercise a sound discretion upon the subject before them, and if in expressing its opinion any pain was inflicted, the blame was attributable to those only who had brought the measure forward—[Hear, hear!] He certainly saw no necessity for the grant upon the grounds which some hon. gentlemen had stated; for he was quite persuaded, that if the lady should ever be in a state of widowhood, that House would always be disposed to grant such an allowance as would enable her to live suitably to her rank and dignity. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not be betrayed into a sanction and approbation of that marriage under the plea of providing against a contingency which might never happen. He must say, that out of regard to public morals, they ought to withhold that sanction if the connexion was such as the Queen had refused to approve, which refusal they were justified in inferring.
 Sir T. Acland  said, he would not oppose the proposed grant as excessive, because if it was at all proper, he thought it very moderate: nor would he oppose it on account of any insinuation against the character of his Royal Highness. But he would oppose it because of the connexion that his Royal Highness had made. That connexion was not only no advantage to the country; it was worse, it was contrary to the honour of the country. There were rumours afloat, that if true, rendered it
 1079]
 Mr. Peel  said, it would be unnecessary to detain the House long in showing that, even if the facts were true which the hon. baronet stated, no good could possibly arise from the agitation of the present subject. It was wholly inexpedient, and its introduction at this moment highly injurious. He gave full credit to the consistency of the hon. baronet, in thus bringing forward his motion; at all events, the charge of precipitation would be the last which he would adduce against him, for it seemed to be a part of his system to make this motion at so late a period of the session, as to enable him to make a speech, without, at the same time, incurring the risk of creating the injurious effect which the adoption of his motion was calculated to produce. This had been the practice of the hon. baronet during the last three years, for he allowed the House almost to terminate its sitting before he gave notice of his usual motion on this subject. But what good could arise from the adoption of his proposition? What effect could it produce? The House
 1093]
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  (knight of Kerry) expressed his cordial assent to the reasonable and natural proposition of his hon. friend. He denied that any charge of tardiness could fairly be brought against him, and also that his object was to call on the House to appoint a commission: it
 [1094 ex parte 1095]
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, that, in opposing the present motion, he would exercise the same candid feeling that had always, he trusted, marked his conduct in public life. While he gave credit to the temperate manner in which his hon. friend opposite had introduced this motion, he could not but lament that the same spirit had not actuated his right hon. friend who had spoken last, and who seemed, by his argument, to adapt a former state of civil convulsion in Ireland to the present, which was wholly dissimilar. It had been said, with truth, by his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel), that no necessity existed for this motion, because loose and general allegations in a petition were not sufficient authority to influence that House in the appointment of such a commission, particularly as no distinct charge was adduced against those who were in the administration of justice. As to the charge of partisanship, so indiscreetly hinted at in the government of the duke of Richmond, or that of his successor, he felt no hesitation in saying, that there never existed a government in Ireland so free from such an imputation as that of either of those Viceroys, against whose government the observation had been applied. The right hon. gentleman who spoke last, had expressed his surprise that those associations were not extinguished in Ireland by the present Administration. Now, he would ask, why this suppression did not take place in the former governments, to which allusion was made? In some of those a rigour beyond the law had been exercised,
 [1096
 Colonel Archdall  said, that there were other societies more obnoxious to the public peace than the Orangemen, such as Ribbonmen and others; and why had not the hon. baronet included them in his motion? He thought such a question calculated to keep alive the animosities which the hon. baronet condemned; and he trusted that the House would not countenance any such attack upon a body of loyal individuals, as the Orangemen had proved themselves to be.
 The Chancellor  of the Exchequer presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following Papers:
 Sir J. Majoribanks , in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to propose a Vote of Thanks to the Duke of York for his conduct as Commander-in-chief. He said that he could assure the House he was not actuated by any undue motives of private or party feeling, as he trusted those who knew him would be ready to vouch. He had not even the honour of being known to his Royal Highness; and his sole reason for coming forward on this occasion was his hope, that the House might be induced to express their sense of the high services rendered by his Royal Highness to the country, during the long period in which he had had the chief command of the army. His Royal Highness's conduct both in the dispensation of promotions, and in all the complicated military arrangements which his station had imposed upon him, had evinced an activity and a discrimination which redounded to his honour. The illustrious Chief by whom the recent glorious victory had been obtained, had, on the occasion of his appearance at the bar of that House to acknowledge their congratulations on his return from the Peninsula, observed, that to the bravery of his troops, and to the high state of equipment in which they were maintained by the excellent regulations of his royal highness the Commander-in-chief, he was indebted for the power of achieving those exploits which had acquired for him the approbation of Parliament. The value of those regulations was still more unequivocally evinced on the late memorable occasion. By the ample means afforded them, in addition to their native courage, the British army had been enabled to resist for
 [1106
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was far from opposing the motion, although he certainly was of opinion, that it would have been brought forward with more propriety at the close of the services in which our army was engaged. In no instance had any proposition of this nature been made at a previous period. At the same time, he was sure that the House would do justice to the motives by which, the hon. baronet was actuated, and to the feelings which he had expressed on the present occasion,—feelings excited by the recollection of the glorious exploits of our brave troops, who, by the active exertions of his royal highness the Commander-in-chief, were put in possession of those means which had been wielded with so
 1107]
 General Fergusson  said, he had had an opportunity of witnessing the rapid growth and progress of the army, since it had been placed under the command of his royal highness the duke of York; and he considered it as a duty he owed to the House and the country, to state that it was his firm belief that the advantageous state of the army, under his Royal Highness, was derived in a great measure from him. He was happy in having this opportunity of paying his tribute to the merits of the Commander-in-chief.
 Mr. Western  said, it was with considerable reluctance he rose to make any objection to a motion like the present, but he thought he was bound to do so, and it was on constitutional grounds alone that he made his opposition. He trusted the House would do him the justice to believe that he was actuated by no wish
 [1108 1109]
 Sir J. Majoribanks  assured the House, that his motion was altogether unconnected with the question lately agitated, respecting another Royal duke.
 Mr. Baring  justified the part which he had taken last session, when the name of the duke of York had been wholly omitted in the proposed vote of thanks to the army. He thought the right hon. gentleman who spoke last would have acted much more wisely in considering coolly the arguments which had been most modestly stated by his hon. friend, who had not uttered a single syllable against the conduct or character of the Commander-in-chief, than in adopting a tone of warmth altogether uncalled for. His hon. friend had merely doubted whether the Commander-in-chief was not more a civil officer of the Government than the commander of the forces properly so called. He himself thought that there was a distinction between the Commander-in-chief and any officer under Government. He concurred with his hon. friend and the Chancellor of the Exchequer in thinking that this was not a time for bringing for-
 [1114
 Lord Barnard  was of opinion, that no man was more deserving of the thanks of that House, and of the country at large, than the duke of York. The duke of Wellington never could have gained so many glorious victories, but for the skill and discipline of the British army—that skill and discipline had been fostered by the duke of York; and therefore his Royal Highness was worthy of every honour that could be conferred on him by Parliament. The satisfaction given by his Royal Highness to the army was universal.
 Mr. Forbes  thought that it would be proper for ministers to propose a pecuniary grant to reward the services of the duke of York, as it was not in the power of the nation to confer any additional honours on his Royal Highness. He cordially concurred in the present Vote of Thanks.
 Sir J. Majoribanks  replied. The question was then put, and carried without a division.
 Mr. Rose  said, the Bill went merely to abolish the assize, and the principle had been long considered, both by the House and by the trade. No further delay was, therefore, necessary. It was, he conceived, most desirable that the Bill should pass in the present session.
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  spoke in favour of the motion.
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  observed, that last session he had introduced a Bill nearly similar to that now before the House, and he had every reason to believe that the bakers were perfectly satisfied with it.
 Mr. Wilbraham Bootle  replied to the objections urged to the motion by the hon. member for Essex, and denied that it had originated in an invidious desire to raise the character of one Royal Duke at the expense of that of another. In his mind the present question had no connexion with any former subject of discussion. He could see no reason why the House should be bound by precedent when votes of approbation were necessary. It had been asked, why motions of approbation on the conduct of the Lords of the Admiralty and the Masters-general of the Ordnance were not proposed? To this he would answer, that they had not served for twenty years, as had his Royal Highness the Commander-in-chief of the forces.
 Mr. Hart Davis  spoke shortly in favour of the motion.
 Mr. Addington  thought, that after having expressed the gratitude of the House to our great Commander, nothing could be more just than to extend our national acknowledgments to the Royal Duke, to whom the heroic Wellington himself had stated he owed the means by which he had been able to achieve all his triumphs, and especially his last stupendous victory.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  asked the hon. gentleman whether it was his intention to press this Bill through the House during the present session?
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  presented a Petition from the Master and Wardens of the Bakers Company, against the Bill. The Petition complained that the measure had been introduced at so late a period of the session; and expressed the conviction of the petitioners, that it would be mischievous to them, and not at all beneficial to the public.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  supported the allegations contained in the Petition.
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  objected to any decision being come to on the Bill at so late an hour, and when there were so few members present. He should oppose the report being received.
 Mr. Lockhart  could see no reason for refusing to try an experiment, under the regulations proposed in the Bill, for a year. If, at the expiration of that time, it was not found to answer, the bakers could come before the House, armed with facts, instead of arguments and assertions.
 Mr. Methuen  admitted the claim of the duke of York to the gratitude of the country, but could not think any increase of his income necessary. He had 18,000 l l [1116
 Mr. Whitbread  thought the House should not be called on to thank the Commander-in-chief of the forces, any more than the head of any other department, which had equally contributed to the efficiency of the gallant army that achieved the triumph of Waterloo. He was sorry for the tone assumed some by gentlemen, who seemed to regard any hesitation to concur in the motion as little less than an act of ingratitude. He sincerely regretted, that the brother of the duke of Wellington had thought fit to take so high and so loud a tone upon this subject, as if the House would be deficient in its duty if it did not concur in the motion before it; since it was unquestionably a subject that admitted a doubt, even if it could not be said that the proposition was not altogether improper. He agreed in the constitutional doctrines laid down by his hon. friend (Mr. Western); but still he thought that the subject having been brought forward, and the services of the illustrious Duke being generally admitted, it would not be a gracious act to refuse the motion. An. hon. gentleman under the gallery had, on a former occasion, thrown out a hint, that a pecuniary remuneration should be granted to the illustrious Duke. The hon. gentleman evidently could have had no other object in view, because the question before the House, at the time he mentioned the services of the duke of York as worthy of reward, was a grant of money to a member of the Royal family. Before the House agreed, in the present moment, to such a proposition as that, they would do well to give it all the attention which it demanded. However, laying all this aside—laying aside different topics which had been mixed up with the present question—wishing the hon. gentleman had not now brought forward his motion—and thanking his hon. friend for the constitutional view he had taken of the subject—still, looking to the compliments which had been paid to the duke of York—compliments, the result, not of partiality, but of conviction—he conceived the House ought to agree to the resolution. When it was recollected, that, by the excellence of the system which had been matured by the duke of York, a number of troops were enabled to
 1117]
 Mr. F. Lewis  moved the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the report of the Bread Assize Repeal Bill.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, he was so satisfied of the importance of this Bill, that it was his intention to press it through the House with as little delay as possible.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, it at first sight must appear strange, that two parties, seemingly connected with the same trade, should express sentiments so very dissimilar. But the fact was, that scarcely a person whose name was signed to the last Petition was a baker. The petitioners, though calling themselves bakers, were chiefly mealmen and flour-factors.
 Mr. F. Lewis  presented a Petition, signed by 800 Master Bakers, praying that the Bill now in progress through the House for the purpose of abolishing the assize of bread in London and its vicinity, might be passed into a law.
 Mr. F. Lewis  would sooner abandon the whole measure than risk it by attempting to affix the assize. He had no objection, however, that the measure should be commenced from the 1st of August, instead of the present period; no material change in the price of grain could take place between that time and the next meeting of Parliament, when, if necesary, a new regulation could be enacted.
 Mr. Serjeant Best  said, from what he knew of the constitution of the country, he had no hesitation in declaring, that the present motion was perfectly parliamentary. Those who opposed it, on constitutional grounds, were not at all justified in their opposition. Some gentlemen expressed themselves hostile to the motion, for fear it should be drawn into precedent. He should be very happy, if many opportunities occurred, in which such a precedent could be fairly acted on. And if no precedent at present existed, no case, he conceived, could more properly call for the establishment of one, than that which they were now considering. It was observed by an hon. gentleman, that the duke of York was at the head of an inferior department, and that, if thanks were voted to him, the head of every other department might consider himself entitled to the same honour. He looked upon this as a very extraordinary observation, and one that carried no weight whatever with it. He could conceive no reason that should debar the House from voting thanks to the head of any civil department, whose conduct was so beneficial to the public as to demand that mark of approbation. He should certainly vote for the motion, although he was sorry it had not been postponed till the army had attained the great objects (the security of this country, and the liberation of Europe) which it was now occupied in effecting. He wished that the motion had been postponed until an Address of Thanks had been proposed to
 [1118
 Mr. Wellesley Pole  said, that he should trespass for a short time upon the attention of the House. Agreeing perfectly as he did, with every sentiment that had fallen from his right hon. friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should have little more to do than to express that concurrence: he was anxious, however, to bear testimony to the exertions of the illustrious person who was the subject of the present motion, and to endeavour to lay before the House the sense entertained of his services by a noble relation of his now in the command of the army abroad. It was, perhaps, rather unfortunate that the hon. member who had brought forward the motion had selected the present moment for that purpose. It certainly in his judgment would have been better to have postponed it till the great work which the duke of York's exertions had enabled our army so gloriously to commence, had been consummated: that, in his opinion, would have been the proper time for the House to have expressed their sense of the services of the illustrious Duke. He was, however, fully convinced that in bringing forward this motion the hon. mover had been actuated only by the most pure and honourable motives, and by sentiments truly British. The hon. gentleman who had just sat down (the member for Essex,) objected to this motion as being unconstitutional. He conceived
 [1110 1111] [1112 1113]
 Sir George Hill  contended, that in the province of Ulster, justice was as fairly administered as it was in any county in England. It appeared rather strange, that those petitioners should complain of their being inadmissible to societies, which they themselves pronounced to be illegal. For his own part, he never was an Orangeman, nor an encourager of their system; but he knew, that in obedience to the feeling of Parliament, those institutions had been circumscribed, and deprived, in some degree, of their badges. The fact, however, was, that the Protestants of the North of Ireland, were the parties who ought really to complain. No later than last week, a declaration, explanatory of the extent of organization among Ribbonmen, was signed by 1200 persons at Londonderry, who complained of the systematic scenes of riot and murder which were practised among mountaineer Catholics in that district, and exclusively directed against Protestant inhabitants. The hon. baronet then referred to certain riots which had taken place in Derry, which had become the subject of legal investigation and punishment; and further added, that in delicacy to the feelings of temperate and respectable Catholics in that town, the yeomanry corps, who were in the habit of celebrating the anniversary of the siege of Derry, assembled without the badges which they had been accustomed, for nearly a century, to wear on this occasion. He concluded by bearing testimony to the impartiality of Protestant jurors, so far as he had an opportunity of knowing them.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that the observations of the hon. member who had last spoken, showed the necessity of his motion; for it appeared that one party was armed against another, and that Government had not thought proper to interpose. But the hon. gentleman was historically incorrect, if he meant to state that the Orange system arose out of the Ribbonmen. On a reference to the state of Ireland for the last twenty years, it would be found, that Orange Lodges were long antecedent to the existence of Ribbonmen; that the latter, in fact, had grown out of the oppression of the former, and were created as a sort of defence (unquestionably illegal) against their lawless violence. The hon. baronet then defended himself from the imputation of unnecessary delay in the introduction of this question; his only reason for postponing it was an expectation, which, he lamented to find, had not been realised, that an opportunity would have been taken, by those who could have done it with effect, of rendering his present proposition unnecessary. He disclaimed intending any political recrimination in bringing forward the present motion—his only object being to prevent the recurrence of those monstrous outrages which were daily passing in several parts of Ireland. He denied that he had given an exaggerated statement relative to the influence of party prejudice upon
 1097]
 Sir Henry Parnell  rose, in
 [1090 1091] [1092
 Colonel Wood  supported the motion, and, to prove that the Commander-in-chief was particularly entitled to the thanks of the House, begged to remind them what
 1115]
 Mr. Gordon  thought such a measure as this was not fairly introduced, by being coupled with a tissue of general allegations against particular bodies. The hon. gentleman here look occasion to eulogise his hon. friend near him (Mr. Barham), whose management of his West India property was productive of infinite service. If the abuses proceeded from any improper act on the part of the local assemblies, then let the facts be proved, and let those assemblies be altogether abolished, and the government vested in the hands of the colonial governor; this would be the proper course to adopt. He concurred in the opinion, that no facts were made out to justify this motion, and thought the moment inopportune, at a time when the colonial governments were themselves employed in ameliorating the condition of their slaves. The inquiry which was the foundation of this Bill, seemed to have emanated from a long string of complaints, which had been in one sense unanimously transmitted to the African Association, and then formed into
 [1132
 General Thornton  wished the hon. mover of the Bill to consent to lower the penalty against the use of alum.
 Mr. A. Browne  warmly vindicated the West India body from the aspersions of his hon. friend (Mr. Barham), and insisted that this impossibility of proceeding in any inquiry at the advanced period of the session, was their only motive for not pressing for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the general administration of the colonies; but he was persuaded, that the result of that inquiry would show that they were not deserving of that obloquy which had been thrown around them in a publication which had been lately given to the world.—With respect to the Bill before the House, he felt it his duty, in every stage of its discussion, to reprobate it, as a measure uncalled for upon any parliamentary ground, or by any evidence whatever of the existence of the evil which it was intended to prevent: a measure highly objectionable in principle, as assuming a questionable and hazardous interference in the internal conduct of the colonies, and in its oppressive details endangering the whole system of colonial policy, by which the security both of the properties and the lives of the white population was preserved. He admitted, that with the sense which Parliament had expressed of the nature of the African Slave-trade, they might naturally be anxious to prevent any evasion of the Abolition Bill, or any clandestine opportunities for the existence of the evil. Bat before they went on a pursuit of fresh penalties, or fresh enactments to prevent the evil, they ought to be satisfied, by the usual and established course of parliamentary proceeding, that the evil existed, and that the law as it stood was insufficient for the purpose, and that it was necessary to provide other enactments to perfect their object. With-
 [1130 1131]
 Mr. Barham  said, he did not rise to oppose the Bill itself, because he believed it might be a good and useful Bill if it went upon proper principles; but he wished to call the attention of the House to some circumstances which compelled him to object, to the Bill in its present shape and form. He believed it was intended to be the ground-work of another Bill, which would perhaps be the means of producing many benefits to the situation of the slaves in the West India islands; and to any Bill that in his opinion tended to the amelioration of the condition of the slaves themselves, no man in that House or out of it would be found to be more friendly; but he could not bring himself to vote for the present Bill, because it supposed a traffic of a very injurious
 [1128 primâ facie
 Mr. P. Moore  concurred in this opinion, and trusted the measure would receive no further countenance. At all events, it ought to be preceded by the appointment of a committee up stairs, for the purpose of ascertaining how far the Acts at present in force for the prevention of the Slave-trade were or were not operative. If they proceeded without this inquiry, they would be legislating in the dark, and interfering with those reforms which would, it was presumed, emanate from the legislative bodies in the colonies. The hon. gentleman then referred to the late case of Brodie, Dunbar, and another, to show that a variety of practices existed, which were much more open to reprehension, and much fitter for inquiry, than those to which allusion had been made.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, his object had been to incorporate, as nearly as possible, into his Bill, all the different provisions of the several Assize acts respecting false weight and adulteration. A person well informed on the subject had told him, that there was not one baker in London who did not make use of alum. In all cases this was a dangerous mixture—but to children, in particular, it was extremely prejudicial. The penalty could not exceed 20 l.,
 Mr. F. Lewis  moved the third reading of the Bread Assize Repeal Bill.
 Mr. W. Smith  fully approved of the Bill which had just been introduced, convinced as he was, from all that he had heard, of its necessity. He had received information from the best authority, and those intimately acquainted with the West Indian seas, that from the nature of the currents which flowed round some of the islands, it was morally impossible to prevent the illicit importation of slaves, but by some such measure as that now brought in by his hon. friend. He was satisfied, when the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, came to consider the provisions of this Bill, that he would be more disposed to favour it than to throw impediments in its way.
 Mr. Wilberforce  brought up a Bill for more effectually preventing the unlawful importation of Slaves, and the holding free persons in Slavery in the British Colonies. On the question that the Bill be read a first time,
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, that nothing could be a stronger proof of the necessity of some bill of the nature of the present, than the universal admission, not only of the planters, but of the historian of the West Indies, that all attempts to prevent the importation of slaves into the islands would prove vain. He had been accused of dealing in general charges against the people of the West Indies. When speaking against the system of the West Indies, he was always happy to bear testimony to exceptions to it; but he would contend, that the general system was, in the highest degree, vicious. Seriously and soberly standing in his place, he would say, that the general condition of slaves in the West Indies, was worse than that of any description of slaves in ancient times. It was admitted by the opponents of the present Bill, that evasion of the abolition laws was but too easy, and they might be said to be friendly to the object of it. He had heard enough of the West-Indian legislature, not to have any very sanguine expectations from that quarter. It was melancholy to reflect, that notwithstanding all the admonitions which they had received on the subject of mitigating the state of slavery, so little had been done by them, that the unhappy beings were liable to be torn away from their little domiciles, when they had at length, perhaps, forgot their native home, and found a second home in the West Indies, on account of their masters' debts—husbands torn from their wives, parents from their children, the most sacred ties of human nature dissolved. Not in one single island had a law to make slaves  astricti glebæ 1133]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he hoped to have been able to submit a proposition to the House upon the subject before, but some particular causes had prevented him from doing so. It certainly, however, was the intention of Government to provide a proper court for the discharge of the business belonging to the office of Vice-Chancellor.
 Lord Cochrane  gave notice that he should, early in the next session, move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the evidence taken upon the proceedings in a late trial, and into the conduct of the Lord Chief Justice upon that trial.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the usual Addresses to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying that he would order certain sums to be paid to the Chairman of the Committees, and to the other officers of that House, for their services, and that the House would make good the same.
 Sir C. Burrell  observed, that a Bill had been passed in the course of the present session, to enable the Government to erect signal-stations in different parts of the country; He wished to know, as it was of importance to many individuals who had land in. those parts where they were to be erected, whether under the present circumstances of the war, it would still be thought necessary to apply the public money to those objects.
 Mr. Speaker  acquainted the House, that he had received from Field Marshal his Royal Highness the Duke of York the following Letter in return to the Thanks of this House, signified to him by Mr. Speaker, in obedience to their commands of Wednesday last. Horse Guards, 5th July, The Right Hon. the Speaker.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  inquired, whether any Steps had yet been taken to provide a proper court for the Vice Chancellor, in which he might execute the duties in-
 [1140
 Sir G. Warrender  said, the only answer which he could give to the hon. baronet's question was, that the actual circumstances must regulate the necessity or propriety of acting upon that Bill.
 Mr. Rose  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on Mad-houses. On moving that it be printed,
 Mr. Rose  took the opportunity of observing, that all who read the Report must feels atisfied of the indispensable necessity of legislative interference. In no country were there any set of people so unprotected as the unhappy persons to whom the Report referred. The way in which they were usually confined, was that of criminals; and their treatment was in general worse than the ordinary treatment in gaols. The number of persons appointed to take care of them, was in most cases utterly insufficient; in consequence of which the greatest severity was too frequently resorted to. He trusted that the subject would be fully considered by honourable members during the recess,
 1145]
 Mr. Rose  reported from the committee appointed to inquire into the state of Mendicity in the Metropolis, and its immediate neighbourhood, and to report the same, together with their observations thereupon, to the House, and who were empowered to report the minutes of the evidence taken before them;—That they had considered the matter to them referred; and had directed him to make a Report thereof to the House, with an appendix: and the Report was read. On the motion, that it be printed,
 Mr. Rose  begged to call the attention of the House for a few moments to the subject. When in a former part of the session he had moved for the appointment of a committee, he stated that his object was twofold—to better the situation of those who were really distressed, and to repress scandalous and abominable imposture. The evidence obtained by the committee, confirmed more strongly his previous opinions on this subject. They had found that there were a great many objects of real compassion, but that there were many more of the worst description of impostors. The number of mendicants in the metropolis was estimated at about 30,000, but probably it was much greater. Most of these persons gained more than many industrious individuals of the lower classes of the community. One man actually acknowledged that his profits were about thirty shillings a day. This might be a singular case, but it was proved by the strongest evidence that the average receipts of mendicants in London were from three to six shillings a day each. This money was spent in the most excep-
 [1146 l. l. l., 1147]
 The Marquis of Tavistock  rose, evidently under the strongest emotion, and addressed the Speaker to the following effect:— [1148 1149]
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that it was far from his wish to detain the House after the address, replete with feeling and propriety, which they had heard from the noble marquis, and after the excellent observations of his hon. friend—[Hear, hear!] All that he desired to say was, that it must be some consolation to the noble marquis, and to the whole House, to feel, that whatever difference of opinion might exist on political questions, there was no one who did not do justice to the virtues and talents of the object of their regret, or who for a moment supposed that he was actuated in his public conduct by any other motive than a conviction of public duty—[Hear, hear!]
 Mr. Forbes  declared, that no man would be more rejoiced than himself if captain Baker cleared himself from the charge alleged against him, and pledged himself to take the earliest opportunity to put the Admiralty in possession of the means of prosecuting the inquiry.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  gave notice, that early in the next session he would revive the subject of the abolition of the punishment of the pillory, unless some measure of that kind should originate in another quarter; and also, that early in the next session, unless a considerable alteration should take place in the mean while, he would renew the Bill for better paving the Metropolis.
 Mr. W. Smith  hoped, that when the subject should be again brought foward, as it would next session, the consideration of a measure on it would not be confined to this metropolis, but extend to the whole country.
 Mr. Wilberforce  expressed the gratification which he felt at the pathetic speech of the noble marquis, which afforded an additional proof that the best eloquence was that of the heart. He wished to add his testimony to the excellent qualities of the lamented individual whose death had rendered the present motion necessary; and in doing so, he could with truth declare, that he was only one of many thousands, rich as well as poor, by whom his character had been most highly estimated. Well had it been termed by the noble marquis "a truly English character." Even its defects, trifling as they were, (and what character was altogether without defect?) were those which belonged to the English character. Never had there existed a more complete Englishman—[Hear, hear!] All who knew him must recollect the indefatigable earnestness and perseverance with which, during the course of his life, he directed his talents and the whole of his time to the public interest; and although he (Mr. Wilberforce) undoubtedly differed from him on many occasions, yet he always did full justice to his public spirit and love of his country—[Hear, hear!] He was capable (as had been seen at various times) of controlling the strongest feelings of personal attachment, when he thought that his duty to the public compelled him to do so. It was a melancholy satisfaction to those who loved him, to see that those who had differed from him on many political questions, nevertheless considered him as one of those public treasures, the loss of which must by all parties be deeply lamented—][Hear, hear!] For
 [1150
 Sir J. Yorke,  seeing an hon. member in his place who had lately complained of the conduct of captain Baker, of the Cumberland, in the management of a convoy which he had in charge, read a letter from captain Baker, explaining the nature of the transaction, and defending himself from the accusation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could assure the hon. gentleman that the subject had been already under the attention of Government, and that ministers would not be found wanting in their efforts to accomplish so desirable an object.
 The Earl of Egremont  rose and said:
Your lordships may possibly be surprised, that a person unconnected as I am with either of the military professions, should have undertaken to bring this subject under your lordships consideration.—As far as general inability to do that justice to any subject that an address to your lordships requires, I admit it, to the fullest extent; but I cannot admit any particular disqualification for this subject, in myself or in any noble lord, on account of his not belonging to those professions: on the Contrary, if I could have chosen, I should have preferred to have seen it in the hands of one of the noble and learned lords;—accident has thrown it into mine; and I assure your lordships, that nothing but a strong conviction of the importance of the subject, and of the improbability of its being taken up by any other person, could have induced me to undertake it, attended as it is, to me, with many painful sensations, and with much difficulty, arising from the peculiar nature of the subject, and also from the misconception which I believe to prevail, in the minds of many persons, respecting my motives, and the object which I have in view. And if any noble lords should imagine, that I am actuated by any personal feelings, either of friendship or resentment, I trust that I shall succeed in convincing those noble lords, that they are totally mistaken: but upon such a subject,—involving as it does
 [1172 1173] [1174 
 1. "For abusing and offering to fight ( i. e. 2. "For drawing bills on the Commissioners of the Navy for the sum of 300 dollars (when at Buenos Ayres) under a fictitious name, for pilotage up and down the river Plate. 3. "For publicly calling the prosecutor a coward on the quarter-deck. 4. "For disabling his Majesty's ship Hermes, by striking two of the foremost guns into the hold. 5. "For telling the prosecutor, in answer to a remonstrance by him, that it was a falsehood, and holding him in derision. 6. "For acknowledging a false muster. 7. "For incorrectly charging the prosecutor with disputing his (capt. Browne's) authority, and the Commander-in-chief's when at Rio Janeiro, and suspending him from duty, and confining him in consequence." 1175] [1176 1177]
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. gentleman to a subject which had occupied the notice of Parliament in the early part of the session; he alluded to the Abolition of the Slave Trade by France. He hoped that now Louis XVIII. was restored to his throne again, his Majesty's ministers would use their utmost endeavours to obtain from him an immediate abolition of that traffic.
